20701682	Examining the targets of selection in crop species and their wild and weedy relatives sheds light on the evolutionary processes underlying differentiation of cultivars from progenitor lineages. On one hand, human-mediated directional selection in crops favours traits associated with the streamlining of controllable and predictable monoculture practices alongside selection for desired trait values. On the other hand, natural selection in wild and especially weedy relatives presumably favours trait values that increase the probability of escaping eradication. Gene flow between crops and wild species may also counter human-mediated selection, promoting the evolution and persistence of weedy forms. In this issue, two studies from a group of collaborators examine diversity and divergence patterns of genes underlying two traits associated with red rice (Oryza sp.), the conspecific relative of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) that is a non-native weed (see Fig. 1). In the first study by Gross et al. (2010), genetic variation in the major gene underlying the hallmark red pigmentation characterizing most weedy rice (Rc) is found to have a pattern consistent with non-reversion from U.S. cultivated rice (i.e. the cultivar did not 'go feral'). This suggests that U.S. weedy rice is not an escaped lineage derived from U.S. cultivated rice populations; weedy rice likely differentiated prior to the selective sweep occurred in this gene within cultivated rice populations. Using the major seed shattering locus sh4 gene and the neighbouring genomic region, Thurber et al. (2010) track the molecular evolutionary history of the high shattering phenotype, a trait contributing dramatically to the success of crop selection in cultivated rice as well as the persistence and expansion of weedy red rice. In this study, the shared fixation of a sh4 mutation in both cultivated rice and weedy rice indicates that weedy rice arose subsequent to the strong selective sweep leading to significant reduction in seed shattering in cultivated rice.
20702024	China is the largest rice producing and consuming country in the world, but rice production has given way to the production of vegetables during the past twenty years. The government has been trying to stop this land-use conversion and increase the area in rice-vegetable rotation. Important questions that must be answered to determine what strategy is best for society are, "What is the reason behind this conversion?"; "Which system is more productive and which is more sustainable?"; and "How can economic policy be used to adjust the pattern of farmland use to attain sustainable development?" To answer these questions, a combined evaluation of these agricultural production systems was done using emergy, energy and economic methods. An economic analysis clearly showed that the reason for this conversion was simply that the economic output/input ratio and the benefit density of the vegetable production system were greater than that of rice. However, both energy and emergy evaluations showed that long-term rice was the best choice for sustainable development, followed by rotation systems. The current price of rice is lower than the em-value of rice produced from the long-term rice system, but higher than that of rice produced from the rotation system. Scenario analysis showed that if the government increases the price of rice to the em-value of rice produced from the long-term rice system, US$0.4/kg, and takes the value of soil organic matter into account, the economic output/input ratios of both the rice and rotation systems will be higher than that of the vegetable system. The three methods, energy, emergy and economics, are different but complementary, each revealing a different aspect of the same system. Their combined use shows not only the reasons behind a system's current state or condition, but also the way to adjust these systems to move toward more sustainable states.
20702845	This article describes the case of a 16-month-old Hispanic male toddler with cow's milk allergy living in northern California who was admitted to a children's hospital for weight loss and markedly elevated levels of serum alkaline phosphatase and parathyroid hormone. At a routine outpatient well-child visit, his mother expressed concern about a decrease in his appetite and activity level. A detailed diet history revealed that breast milk was his primary source of nutrition during his first year of life and he had not been given supplemental vitamins. With attempts to introduce cow's milk formula, he had developed a rash and swelling around the mouth. Shortly after his first birthday, his mother weaned him from breast milk and introduced unfortified rice milk as a palatable milk substitute. Upon admission he was pale and lethargic; his laboratory studies were remarkable for elevated serum alkaline phosphatase and parathyroid hormone and low levels of phosphorus, 25-hydroxy-vitamin D, and ferritin. Lower extremity radiographic studies were consistent with rickets. After 5 weeks of therapy with vitamin D(3) and iron, his serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D level normalized. Within 12 weeks following therapy, the child demonstrated significant clinical improvement, with resolution of growth failure and bone reossification. His activity level had returned to normal. This case emphasizes the importance of adequate vitamin D intake for children with special attention to those who might have nutrition deficiencies attributable to milk allergy.
20702941	Stable isotopic compositions and elemental contents of the H, C, N, and O in 163 rice samples were analyzed. The samples were taken from three different farming countries; Japan (n = 103), United States of America (n = 30), and Australia (n = 21), in addition of Asian rice samples from Thailand (n = 2), Vietnam (n = 1), and China (n = 6) as comparison. They were mostly short grain samples known as "Koshihikari," with several samples of middle and long grains included. All samples were grown in the presence of either natural manure or artificial fertilizer. The climate of the rice farming environment was diverse, from arid to humid. Excluding deltaD data showing large uncertainty, according to the statistical analysis of the principal components based on the stable isotopic compositions such as delta(13)C, delta(15)N, and delta(18)O of rice samples, the Japanese rice samples were clearly distinctive from the Australian and the American rice samples. This fact may be explained by the regional differences in isotopic signatures of the climate, utilized nutrition, and/or quality of irrigation water among the farming countries. This statistical distinction could be one of the useful tools to extract the rice samples grown in Japan from those grown in the other countries.
20703802	Rice is the first cereal genome to be completely sequenced. Since the completion of its genome sequencing, considerable progress has been made in multiple areas including the whole genome annotation, gene expression profiling, mutant collection, etc. Here, we summarize the current status of rice genome annotation and review the methodology of assigning biological functions to hundreds of thousands of rice genes as well as discuss the major limitations and the future perspective in rice functional genomics. Available data analysis shows that the rice genome encodes around 32,000 protein-coding genes. Expression analysis revealed at least 31,000 genes with expression evidence from full-length cDNA/EST collection or other transcript profiling. In addition, we have summarized various strategies to generate mutant population including natural, physical, chemical, T-DNA, transposon/retrotransposon or gene silencing based mutagenesis. Currently, more than 1 million of mutants have been generated and 27,551 of them have their flanking sequence tags. To assign biological functions to hundreds of thousands of rice genes, global co-operations are required, various genetic resources should be more easily accessible and diverse data from transcriptomics, proteomics, epigenetics, comparative genomics and bioinformatics should be integrated to better understand the functions of these genes and their regulatory mechanisms.
20705135	The brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens, attacks rice plants and feeds on their phloem sap, which contains large amounts of sugars. The main sugar component of phloem sap is sucrose, a disaccharide composed of glucose and fructose. Sugars appear to be incorporated into the planthopper body by sugar transporters in the midgut. A total of 93 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) for putative sugar transporters were obtained from a BPH EST database, and 18 putative sugar transporter genes (Nlst1-18) were identified. The most abundantly expressed of these genes was Nlst1. This gene has previously been identified in the BPH as the glucose transporter gene NlHT1, which belongs to the major facilitator superfamily. Nlst1, 4, 6, 9, 12, 16, and 18 were highly expressed in the midgut, and Nlst2, 7, 8, 10, 15, 17, and 18 were highly expressed during the embryonic stages. Functional analyses were performed using Xenopus oocytes expressing NlST1 or 6. This showed that NlST6 is a facilitative glucose/fructose transporter that mediates sugar uptake from rice phloem sap in the BPH midgut in a manner similar to NlST1.
20705584	Carotenoid isomerase (CRTISO) has been suggested to protect photosystem II (PS II) from photodamage, probably through its product lutein. However, the mechanism of the photoprotection still remains to be further elucidated. In this work, we cloned a point mutated gene reported to encode a CRTISO which is responsible for the accumulation of lutein in rice mutant zel1 by a map-based cloning approach. The mutant phenotype was rescued by transformation with the corresponding gene of the wild type (WT). The activity of photosynthetic oxygen evolution was evidently suppressed in zel1. The amount of the core protein of PS II CP47 was much lower in all the PS II complexes especially in the LHCII-PS II supercomplexes and CP43-free PS II of zel1 than that of WT. On the other hand, the amount of another core protein of PS II CP43 of zel1 was decreased in the higher supercomplexes, whereas it was increased in the lower ones and PS II monomer. The immunodetection displayed that CP43, CP47, and the oxygen-evolving extrinsic proteins PsbO and PsbP were reduced, but the amount of reaction center protein D1 did not show significant change in zel1. Northern blot analysis showed that the transcriptional level of CP43 was down-regulated but not that of CP47 or D1 in zel1. In addition, the plastoquinone (PQ) Q(A) was in a reduced state in zel1. On the basis of the results, we suggest that CRTISO might function in regulating the transcription of CP43 and the translation of CP47 by affecting the redox state of the PQ to stabilize the extrinsic proteins of oxygen evolution complexes in the rice plant.
20707111	By using sustainable yield index (SYI), this paper analyzed the sustainability of maize, rice, and wheat yields at 20 long-term fertilization experiment sites in China under different fertilization system and ecological conditions. The SYI value of test crops varied significantly with fertilization system, crop kind, effective accumulated temperature, and sunshine hour. Irrespective of fertilization, the SYI value of rice was generally higher than that of maize and wheat. Under long-term no fertilization, the SYI values of rice, wheat, and maize were lower, being 0.55, 0.44, and 0.43, respectively. Fertilization, especially a combined application of NPK and manure, promoted the sustainability of crop yields, with the SYI values of rice, wheat, and maize being 0.66, 0.58, and 0.57, respectively. Under the application of N and NK, the SYI values ranged in 0. 36-0. 47. SYI value > 0.55 represented the better sustainability of crop yields, while SYI < 0.45 represented a worse one. Longitude, altitude, and weather factors also affected the SYI values, especially that of maize. Under no fertilization, maize had the largest variation of SYI value, followed by wheat, and rice. Our results indicated that a combined application of chemical fertilizers with manure benefited high and stable yielding, being the optimal fertilization mode for maintaining the sustainability of grain yield.
20707226	Few studies have described protein and amino acid intakes in rural Bangladesh, a country with considerable undernutrition. The purpose of this population-based study was to assess and describe protein and amino acid intakes in Araihazar, Bangladesh. The study participants were 11,170 adult men and women who participated in the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study (HEALS), which had a 98% participation rate. Dietary exposures were assessed by a food-frequency questionnaire that had been designed and validated for the HEALS study population. The mean body mass index (BMI) was 19.7 among all participants, and 34.9% of women and 44.4% of men had a BMI below 18.5. The average caloric intake was 2142 and 2394 kcal/day among women and men, respectively, and the mean protein intake was 67.5 and 78.2 g/day. The largest sources of protein were from rice and fish. Greater protein intake was related to younger age and several socioeconomic measures, including more years of education, land and television ownership, and employment in business, farming, or as a laborer (for men) or as a homemaker (for women). This study found a high prevalence of underweight among study participants. Nonetheless, most participants had adequate protein intake according to Food and Agriculture Organization standards for body weight.
20707250	The efficacy of dietary inclusion of various parts of mangosteen (Garcinia mangostana L.) extract on growth and hematological parameters of African catfish (Clarias gariepinus) fingerlings were investigated. Ninety six fingerlings were randomly distributed into each of ten 20L plastic aquaria. Each treatment groups consists of three replicates. Four experimental diets were prepared: controls, leaf extract, shoot extract and rind extract. The 0.5% of various parts (leaf, rind and shoot extract) of mangosteen were included in the experimental diets at the expense of 0.5% rice bran. The fingerlings were fed with experimental diets at satiation for five weeks. The results showed that no significant difference on growth, specific growth rate, average daily growth, feed conversion ratio and condition factors of the dietary inclusion of the different mangosteen extract treatment when compared to control groups except leaf extract. Significantly higher red blood cells (RBC) count and white blood cells (WBC) count were recorded in fish fed with shoot extract incorporated diet fed groups than the other groups. However, no significant impact on hemoglobin content between the experimental groups and control groups. Based on the results of the present study, it is suggested that feeding fish with 0.5 % of mangosteen extracts for 35 days has no adverse effect on growth and enhanced the hematological parameters of African catfish fingerlings.
20707307	Chinese rice wine is abundant in amino acids. The possibility of quantitative detection of 16 free amino acids (aspartic acid, threonine, serine, glutamic acid, proline, glycine, alanine, valine, methionine, isoleucine, leucine, tyrosine, phenylalanine, lysine, histidine, and arginine) in Chinese rice wine by Fourier transform near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy was investigated for the first time in this study. A total of 98 samples from vintage 2007 rice wines with different aging times were analyzed by NIR spectroscopy in transmission mode. Calibration models were developed using partial least-squares regression (PLSR) with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) by postcolumn derivatization and diode array detection as a reference method. To validate the calibration models, full cross (leave-one-out) validation was employed. The results showed that the calibration statistics were good (rcal>0.94) for all amino acids except proline, histidine, and arginine. The correlation coefficient in cross validation (rcv) was >0.81 for 12 amino acids. The residual predictive deviation (RPD) value obtained was >1.5 in all amino acids except proline and arginine, and it was >2.0 in 6 amino acids. The results obtained in this study indicated that NIR spectroscopy could be used as an easy, rapid, and novel tool to quantitatively predict free amino acids in Chinese rice wine without sophisticated methods.
20707338	Selenium (Se) distribution in Se-enriched rice and optimization of extraction for Se-containing protein were studied. Se availability in Se-containing protein product was simulated using an in vitro gastrointestinal digestion. The results showed that Se was predominately found as organic Se, whereas inorganic Se comprised only 2.85% of the total Se. The glutelin fraction contained the largest amount of Se, approximately 31.3% of the total Se in the rice gain. Utilizing orthogonal analysis, the optimum extraction conditions were selected at a volume to weight of 20:1, 0.08 M NaOH, an extraction time of 3 h, and at a temperature of 35 degrees C. A Se-containing rice protein product with 83.5% protein and 9.09 microg g(-1) Se was sequestered using the optimal extraction method. This rice protein product with high molecular weight Se-containing protein can readily be digested to low molecular weight peptides and selenomethionine (52.3% of total Se in protein extract).
20707904	R gene-mediated resistance is one of the most effective mechanisms of immunity against pathogens in plants. To date some components that regulate the primary steps of plant immunity have been isolated, however, the molecular dissection of defense signaling downstream of the R proteins remains to be completed. In addition, R genes are known to be highly variable, however, the molecular mechanisms responsible for this variability remain obscure. To identify novel factors required for R gene-mediated resistance in rice, we used rice insertional mutant lines, induced by the endogenous retrotransposon Tos17, in a genetic screening involving the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. We inoculated 41,119 mutant lines with the fungus using a high throughput procedure, and identified 86 mutant lines with diminished resistance. A genome analysis revealed that 72 of the 86 lines contained mutations in a gene encoding a nucleotide binding site (NBS) and leucine rich repeat (LRR) domain-containing (NBS-LRR) protein. A genetic complementation analysis and a pathogenesis assay demonstrated that this NBS-LRR gene encodes Pish, which confers resistance against races of M. oryzae containing avrPish. The other 14 lines have intact copies of the Pish gene, suggesting that they may contain mutations in the signaling components downstream of Pish. The genome analysis indicated that Pish and its neighboring three NBS-LRR genes are high similar to one another and are tandemly located. An in silico analysis of a Tos17 flanking sequence database revealed that this region is a "hot spot" for insertion. Intriguingly, the insertion sites are not distributed evenly among these four NBS-LRR genes, despite their similarity at the sequence and expression levels. In this work we isolated the R gene Pish, and identified several other mutants involved in the signal transduction required for Pish-mediated resistance. These results indicate that our genetic approach is efficient and useful for unveiling novel aspects of defense signaling in rice. Furthermore, our data provide experimental evidence that R gene clusters have the potential to be highly preferred targets for transposable element insertions in plant genomes. Based on this finding, a possible mechanism underlying the high variability of R genes is discussed.
20708432	To enhance glucoamylase and α-amylase production from Monascus anka, we investigated the influence of different culture conditions on enzyme production and purified and characterized these enzymes. The effect of different raw materials was investigated by using solid-state plates of raw materials such as barley and non-waxy or waxy rice. The barley plate was the most suitable for mycelial growth, but glucoamylase and α-amylase production per growth area did not differ according to the raw material. Investigation of the effect of temperature showed that incubation at 37 °C promoted maximal cell growth, while incubation at 25 °C and at 40 °C resulted in enhanced α-amylase and glucoamylase production, respectively. Characterization of the purified enzymes revealed that α-amylase was unstable at acidic pH and less resistant to heat (stable at < 40 °C) than glucoamylase. When these culture conditions were applied to enzyme production in red koji, reducing the temperature from 35 °C to 25 °C for 48 h in the late stages of growth resulted in higher glucoamylase and α-amylase production (1.4 and 18 times, respectively) with a concomitant increase in protein stability.
20708721	The success of the first Green Revolution in the form of abundant food supplies and low prices over the past two decades has diverted the world's attention from agriculture to other pressing issues. This has resulted in lower support for the agricultural research work primarily undertaken by the 15 research centers of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). The total support in real dollars for most of the last three decades has been more or less flat although the number of centers increased from 4 to 15. However, since 2000, the funding situation has improved for the CGIAR centers, with almost all the increase coming from grants earmarked for specific research projects. Even for some centers such as the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), the downward trend continued as late as 2006 with the budget in real dollars reaching the 1978 level of support. The recent food crisis has renewed the call for a second Green Revolution by revitalizing yield growth to feed the world in the face of growing population and a shrinking land base for agricultural use. The slowdown in yield growth because of decades of neglect in agricultural research and infrastructure development has been identified as the underlying reason for the recent food crisis. For the second Green Revolution to be successful, the CGIAR centers will have to play a complex role by expanding productivity in a sustainable manner with fewer resources. Thus, it is crucial to examine the current structure of support for the CGIAR centers and identify the challenges ahead in terms of source and end use of funds for the success of the second Green Revolution. The objective of this paper is to provide a historical perspective on the support to the CGIAR centers and to examine the current status of funding, in particular, the role of project-specific grants in rebuilding capacity of these centers. The paper will also discuss the nature of the support (unrestricted vs. project-specific grants) that will be needed for a much-desired second Green Revolution.
20709533	In the present work, a green and sustainable route for preparation of hydrochars from sulfuric acid hydrolysis solution of rice husk under low temperature and atmospheric pressure was described. This route was achieved with the catalysis of sulfuric acid. The sphere-like carbon materials with regular size of about 500 nm were obtained at 95 degrees C for 6h when the acid concentration was 42% and 52%. The morphology of the hydrochars changed with sulfuric acid concentration increased. The surface of the materials contained a large number of functional groups. Furthermore, the localized graphitic nature of the materials was proved by X-ray diffraction pattern. High surface area porous carbons could be prepared from the hydrochars after activation, and they exhibited good electrochemical performance.
20709682	Unsaturated fatty acids are synthesized by fatty acid desaturase in plant, which play an important role in plant development and defense to abiotic stresses. The key enzymes for the conversion of oleic into linoleic acid were isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.) and were designated OsFAD2 and OsFAD6, respectively. The open reading frame (ORF) of OsFAD2 was 1 167 bp in length, which encoded a 388 amino acids sequence with the isoelectric point of 8.17 and molecular mass of 52.24 kDa, the OsFAD2 protein contained a C-terminal ER retrieval motif. The ORF of OsFAD6 was 1 365 bp in length and the predicted OsFAD6 protein has 454 amino acids with an estimated molecular mass of 44.35 kDa and an isoelectric point of 9.24, the predicted OsFAD6 protein possessed a putative N-terminal plastidial signal peptide. Both of them had three his-boxes, which were peculiar to membrane integrated fatty acid desaturase by Clustal X analysis. RT-PCR analysis showed that both genes were expressed in all tissues rice seedlings, with the maximum transcript accumulation in leaves. Among FAD family members of Oryza sativa L., the mRNA abundance of OsFAD2 and OsFAD6 in leaves did not change under cold stress; however, the mRNA abundance of OsFAD7 and OsFAD8 increased in the same condition. It was also found that the expression of FAD family members had diurnal rhythm phenomena. Based on the results of this study, it suggested that diurnal rhythm expression of OsFAD6 and OsFAD7 was related to the change of NADPH abundance.
2071042	Isozymes of CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) were purified from angiosperms (spinach and rice), fern (horsetail) and green alga (Spirogyra). Occurrence of CuZn-SOD was confirmed by its purification in the group of green algae which shows the phragmoplast type of cell division. Purified CuZn-SODs are divided to chloroplast and cytosol types by their cellular localization and immunological properties. Their amino acid compositions, absorption spectra, CD spectra, and sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide also are distinguished from each other. All organisms including Spirogyra contain both types of isozyme. Thus, the divergence of the two types of CuZn-SOD isozyme occurred immediately after its acquisition by the most evolved green algae. Amino acid sequences of amino-terminal regions of CuZn-SOD isozymes from spinach, rice and horsetail were determined and compared with those of CuZn-SODs from other plants. The chloroplast and cytosol isozymes of CuZn-SOD show each characteristic sequences. Sequence differences among the cytosol CuZn-SODs are greater than those among the chloroplast CuZn-SODs. These observations indicate that each type of isozyme had independently evolved after the acquisition of CuZn-SOD.
2071187	A dietary survey was conducted between August 1986 and July 1987, to investigate the various food ingredients consumed by two tribes (the Santals and the Pahariyas) residing in the villages of Rajmahal hills, of Bihar. A total of 651 families of two tribes of Sahibganj (Pakur and Rajmahal sub-divisions) and Godda districts were surveyed. Agriculture and forest products were the principal sources of income and food. Only about 12.6 per cent of the Pahariyas and 28.2 per cent Santals could afford regular meals every day for the whole year. Maize, rice, dry jawar powder and Ghangara were the staple foods of these tribes. Pulses and milk found no place in the diet of the Pahariyas. About 4.3 per cent Mals, 2.9 per cent Kumarbhags and 1.8 per cent Saurias and 7.2 per cent Santals ate fish/meat regularly. Toddy and locally distilled wines were regularly consumed by both the tribes. The amount of cereals, roots/tubers and toddy consumed by the Pahariyas was greater than that by the Santals (cereals: 82 and 64.6 per cent of the total food consumed by the Pahariyas and the Santals respectively). Similar amounts of leafy vegetables (5.1% in Santals and 4.8 to 6.8% among the Pahariyas) was consumed by these tribes. Slightly, higher quantity of non-leafy vegetables was consumed by the Santals (4.4%) than the Pahariyas (2.3% to 3.6%). Mean body weight, height, chest circumference, arm circumference and skinfold thickness etc., of the Pahariyas were significantly lower than those of the Santals.
20712123	A method for Monacolin K determination in red fermented rice based on micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography has been developed. The assay conditions including pH and the concentration of running buffer, organic additive, the concentration of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and the separation voltage were optimized. Under the optimized conditions (20 mmol/L borate buffer (pH 10.6, containing 10% (v/v) methanol, 40 mmol/L SDS), the Monacolin K can be separated within 23 min, with the linear working range of 5.00-100.00 mg/L (r = 0.997 6) and a limit of detection (S/N = 3) of 0.13 mg/L. It had good recoveries (98.5%-99. 5%) and the relative standard deviations lower than 3%. The method is simple, rapid, sensitive, highly reproducible and can be successfully applied in the determination of Monacolin K in red fermented rice.
20712379	The endosperm at the storage phase undergoes a series of coordinated cellular and metabolic events, including starchy endosperm cell death, starch synthesis, and starch granule packaging, which leads to efficient accumulation of starch. However, the mechanism underlying the interconnections remains unknown. We used integrated proteomic and cytological approaches to probe the interconnections in rice (Oryza sativa) endosperm at the storage phase from 12 to 18 days after flowering (DAF). Starch granule packaging was completed first in the inner part of endosperm at 15 DAF and spread to almost the entire endosperm at 18 DAF. Programmed starchy endosperm cell death occurred after the starch granule packaging. Endogenous H(2)O(2) was detectable in the inner part of endosperm at 12 DAF and the region beyond the inner part at 15 DAF, with an H(2)O(2) burst at 15 DAF. Proteomics analysis with 2-D fluorescent difference gel electrophoresis and matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time-of-flight/time-of-flight mass spectrometry revealed 317 proteins, including almost all known antioxidants, differentially expressed throughout the 3 stages of the developmental phase. More than two-thirds of the 317 proteins were potential thioredoxin targets, with a preferential skew toward central carbon metabolism, alcoholic fermentation, starch metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and protein synthesis or folding. These proteins implicated in starch synthesis and gluconeogenesis were upregulated, whereas those involved in anabolism of biomacromolecules such as proteins, lipids, and cell wall components were downregulated, with upregulated expression of proteins involved in catabolism of these biomacromolecules, which suggests remobilization of nutrients for starch synthesis. These data suggested important roles of the H(2)O(2)-antioxidant interface in coordinating starch accumulation, programmed cell death of starchy endosperm, and remobilization of nutrients during the cell death.
20713400	The high food prices experienced over recent years have led to the widespread view that food price volatility has increased. However, volatility has generally been lower over the two most recent decades than previously. Variability over the most recent period has been high but, with the important exception of rice, not out of line with historical experience. There is weak evidence that grains price volatility more generally may be increasing but it is too early to say.
20713469	Disease-resistance genes (R-genes) in plants show complex evolutionary patterns. We investigated the evolution of the Rp1 R-gene family in Poaceae, and 409 Rp1 fragments were sequenced from 21 species. Our data showed that the common ancestor of Poaceae had two Rp1 loci, but the number of Rp1 locus in extant species varies from one to five. Some wheat and Zea genotypes have dozens of Rp1 homologues in striking contrast to one or two copies in Brachypodium distachyon. The large number of diverse Rp1 homologues in Zea was the result of duplications followed by extensive sequence exchanges among paralogues, and all genes in maize have evolved in a pattern of Type I R-genes. The high frequency of sequence exchanges did not cause concerted evolution in Zea species, but concerted evolution was obvious between Rp1 homologues from genera Zea and Sorghum. Differentiation of Type I and Type II Rp1 homologues was observed in Oryza species, likely occurred in their common ancestor. One member (Type II R-gene) in the Oryza Rp1 cluster did not change sequences with its paralogues, whereas the other paralogues (Type I R-genes) had frequent sequence exchanges. The functional Pi37 resistance gene in rice was generated through an unequal crossover between two neighboring paralogues followed by four point mutations. The Rp1 homologues in wheat and barley were most divergent, probably due to lack of sequence exchanges among them. Our results shed more light on R-gene evolution, particularly on the differentiation of Type I and Type II R-genes.
20713616	Starch biosynthesis is important for plant development and is a critical factor in crop quality and nutrition. As a complex metabolic pathway, the regulation of starch biosynthesis is still poorly understood. We here present the identification of candidate regulators for starch biosynthesis by gene coexpression analysis in rice (Oryza sativa). Starch synthesis genes can be grouped into type I (in seeds; sink tissues) and type II (in vegetative tissues; source tissues), and 307 and 621 coexpressed genes are putatively involved in the regulation of starch biosynthesis in rice seeds and vegetative tissues, respectively. Among these genes, Rice Starch Regulator1 (RSR1), an APETALA2/ethylene-responsive element binding protein family transcription factor, was found to negatively regulate the expression of type I starch synthesis genes, and RSR1 deficiency results in the enhanced expression of starch synthesis genes in seeds. Seeds of the knockout mutant rsr1 consistently show the increased amylose content and altered fine structure of amylopectin and consequently form the round and loosely packed starch granules, resulting in decreased gelatinization temperature. In addition, rsr1 mutants have a larger seed size and increased seed mass and yield. In contrast, RSR1 overexpression suppresses the expression of starch synthesis genes, resulting in altered amylopectin structure and increased gelatinization temperature. Interestingly, a decreased proportion of A chains in rsr1 results in abnormal starch granules but reduced gelatinization temperature, whereas an increased proportion of A chains in RSR1-overexpressing plants leads to higher gelatinization temperatures, which is novel and different from previous reports, further indicating the complicated regulation of starch synthesis and determination of the physicochemical properties of starch. These results demonstrate the potential of coexpression analysis for studying rice starch biosynthesis and the regulation of a complex metabolic pathway and provide informative clues, including the characterization of RSR1, to facilitate the improvement of rice quality and nutrition.
20715098	Hybridization-based and sequencing-based technologies have found a widespread application in gene expression profiling analysis but much ambiguity exists regarding their reliability. This study developed a framework based on three parameters: detection ability, repeatability, and accuracy to evaluate the reliability of gene expression profiling technologies. The fraction of coverage of detected transcript category, the degree of variance for the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), the consistency of DEG category, and suspected false discovery rate (sFDR) were first introduced as statistical indices. In order to validate the availability of these indices, based on the same RNA extract, the analysis was performed by comparing gene expression differences between wild-type and transgenic rice using deep sequencing and microarray. The results suggested that the parameters were available and showed advances in the determination of gene expression differences. Based on relative self-comparison design, suspected false positive genes were easily identified from all DEGs detected, which was difficult for quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) validation when the count of DEGs was enormous. In addition, sFDRs had advantages in the accuracy evaluation for previous datasets.
20716699	The DELLA protein SLENDER RICE1 (SLR1) is a repressor of gibberellin (GA) signaling in rice (Oryza sativa), and most of the GA-associated responses are induced upon SLR1 degradation. It is assumed that interaction between GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) and the N-terminal DELLA/TVHYNP motif of SLR1 triggers F-box protein GID2-mediated SLR1 degradation. We identified a semidominant dwarf mutant, Slr1-d4, which contains a mutation in the region encoding the C-terminal GRAS domain of SLR1 (SLR1(G576V)). The GA-dependent degradation of SLR1(G576V) was reduced in Slr1-d4, and compared with SLR1, SLR1(G576V) showed reduced interaction with GID1 and almost none with GID2 when tested in yeast cells. Surface plasmon resonance of GID1-SLR1 and GID1-SLR1(G576V) interactions revealed that the GRAS domain of SLR1 functions to stabilize the GID1-SLR1 interaction by reducing its dissociation rate and that the G576V substitution in SLR1 diminishes this stability. These results suggest that the stable interaction of GID1-SLR1 through the GRAS domain is essential for the recognition of SLR1 by GID2. We propose that when the DELLA/TVHYNP motif of SLR1 binds with GID1, it enables the GRAS domain of SLR1 to interact with GID1 and that the stable GID1-SLR1 complex is efficiently recognized by GID2.
2071690	A selective method for the determination of altertoxin-I and altertoxin-II by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection is described. Altertoxins were separated on a reversed-phase column with methanol-water containing 0.1 M sodium nitrate and 1 mM nitric acid (60:40) as eluent and detected with dual in-series electrodes operating in the "redox" mode (generator electrode +1.0 V, indicator electrode -0.1 V). The method was applied successfully to the determination of sub-ppm levels of altertoxins in samples of maize, rice and tomatoes infected by Alternaria alternata.
20717799	The extent of and accessibility to genetic variation in a large germplasm collection are of interest to biologists and breeders. Construction of core collections (CC) is a favored approach to efficient exploration and conservation of novel variation in genetic resources. Using 4,310 Chinese accessions of Oryza sativa L. and 36 SSR markers, we investigated the genetic variation in different sized sub-populations, the factors that affect CC size and different sampling strategies in establishing CC. Our results indicated that a mathematical model could reliably simulate the relationship between genetic variation and population size and thus predict the variation in large germplasm collections using randomly sampled populations of 700-1,500 accessions. We recommend two principles in determining the CC size: (1) compromising between genetic variation and genetic redundancy and (2) retaining the main types of alleles. Based on the most effective scheme selected from 229 sampling schemes, we finally developed a hierarchical CC system, in which different population scales and genetic diversities allow a flexible use of genetic resources. The CC, comprising 1.7% (932) of the accessions in the basic collection, retained more than 85% of both the SSR and phenotypic variations. A mini core collection, comprising 0.3% (189) of the accessions in the basic collection, retained 70.65% of the SSR variation and 76.97% of the phenotypic variation, thus providing a rational framework for intensive surveys of natural variation in complex traits in rice genetic resources and hence utilization of variation in rice breeding.
20717831	The breeding of polyploid rice made no breakthrough for a long time because of low seed set. The discovery and application of polyploid meiosis stability (PMeS) material played a pivotal role in solving this problem. Our results indicated that genome duplication led to different outcomes in different rice cultivars in terms of pollen fertility, viability, and the accumulation of important physiological substances such as free proline and endogenous hormones. Pollen from the PMeS HN2026-4X lines showed a high fertility and viability similar to those of HN2026-2X (4X indicates tetraploid while 2X indicates the diploid), whereas both rates decreased dramatically in Balilla-4X. The results of pollen microstructure and ultrastructure investigations suggested that the pollen development pattern in HN2026-4X appeared normal at all stages, but a lot of changes were discovered in Balilla-4X. Stable meiosis, timely tapetum degradation, and normal mitochondria development were critical factors insuring the high frequency pollen fertility of PMeS rice. The free proline content increased markedly in HN2026-4X as compared to HN2026-2X, but it was decreased for Balilla-4X. Genome duplication effects on regulating endogenous hormones accumulation in pollen were evident, resulting in the clear difference between PMeS HN2026-4X and Balilla-4X. The accumulation of IAA, ZR, and GA in mature pollen distinguished HN2026-4X from Balilla-4X, which was linked to normal pollen development. In particular, the excessive accumulation of ABA at the meiosis stage may be correlated to disorganized meiosis in Balilla-4X. All the results provided unequivocal evidence that genome duplication played specific roles in the normal pollen development of PMeS HN2026-4X.
20718024	Odor-active compounds have been studied in cooked aromatic rice, but not in specialty rice types that have distinctly different flavors. We analyzed the odor-active compounds emanating from three different types of specialty rice (premium-quality, waxy and black-pigmented) and identified the differences in odor-active compounds among them. Twenty-one, 21 and 23 odorants were detected using GC-O for cooked samples of premium-quality, waxy and black-pigmented rice cultivars, respectively. Hexanal was the main odorant in premium-quality and waxy cultivars; however, waxy cultivars had 16 times higher hexanal odor activity values (OAVs) than premium-quality cultivars, indicating premium-quality rice had a less pronounced overall aroma. 2-Acetyl-1-pyrroline was the main contributor to overall aroma in black-pigmented rice, followed by guaiacol. The three types of specialty rice were clearly discriminated based on the OAVs of their odor-active compounds using multivariate analyses. Six odor-active compounds [2-acetyl-1-pyrroline, guaiacol, hexanal, (E)-2-nonenal, octanal and heptanal] contributed the most in discriminating the three types of specialty rice. Six very similar superior cultivars of premium rice could likewise be readily separated using aroma chemistry. The ability to discriminate the aroma among rice types using the OAVs of the principal odor-active compounds facilitates our understanding of the aroma chemistry of specialty rice.
20719251	Rice blast disease is the single most destructive plant disease that threatens stable rice production worldwide. Race-specific resistance to the rice blast pathogen has not been durable and the mechanism by which the resistance is overcome remains largely unknown. Here we report the molecular mechanisms of diversification and the instability of the avirulence gene AVR-Pita1 in field strains of Magnaporthe oryzae interacting with the host resistance gene Pi-ta and triggering race-specific resistance. Two-base-pair insertions resulting in frame-shift mutations and partial and complete deletions of AVR-Pita1 were identified in virulent isolates. Moreover, a total of 38 AVR-Pita1 haplotypes encoding 27 AVR-Pita1 variants were identified among 151 avirulent isolates. Most DNA sequence variation was found to occur in the exon region resulting in amino acid substitution. These findings demonstrate that AVR-Pita1 is under positive selection and mutations of AVR-Pita1 are responsible for defeating race-specific resistance in nature.
20719744	MicroRNAs (miRNAs), one type of small RNAs (sRNAs) in plants, play an essential role in gene regulation. Several miRNA databases were established; however, successively generated new datasets need to be collected, organized and analyzed. To this end, we have constructed a plant miRNA knowledge base (PmiRKB) that provides four major functional modules. In the 'SNP' module, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data of seven Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) accessions and 21 rice (Oryza sativa) subspecies were collected to inspect the SNPs within pre-miRNAs (precursor microRNAs) and miRNA-target RNA duplexes. Depending on their locations, SNPs can affect the secondary structures of pre-miRNAs, or interactions between miRNAs and their targets. A second module, 'Pri-miR', can be used to investigate the tissue-specific, transcriptional contexts of pre- and pri-miRNAs (primary microRNAs), based on massively parallel signature sequencing data. The third module, 'MiR-Tar', was designed to validate thousands of miRNA-target pairs by using parallel analysis of RNA end (PARE) data. Correspondingly, the fourth module, 'Self-reg', also used PARE data to investigate the metabolism of miRNA precursors, including precursor processing and miRNA- or miRNA*-mediated self-regulation effects on their host precursors. PmiRKB can be freely accessed at http://bis.zju.edu.cn/pmirkb/.
20719766	Root nodule (RN) symbiosis in legumes shares genes involved in the early signaling pathway with more ancient arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) symbiosis, which is widespread in higher plants. The non-legume homologs of such genes have been well documented to be not only essential for the AM symbiosis in non-legume mycorrhizal plants but also functional in the RN symbiosis in legume plants. In contrast, it has not been investigated in detail whether RN symbiosis-specific genes, which are not essential for AM symbiosis, are functionally conserved in non-legumes. Two GRAS-domain transcription factors, NSP1 and NSP2, have been shown to be required for RN symbiosis, but not for AM symbiosis. In this study, we demonstrated that their homologs, OsNSP1 and OsNSP2, from rice are able to fully rescue the RN symbiosis-defective phenotypes of the mutants of corresponding genes in the model legume, Lotus japonicus. Our results indicate that some of the genes essential for RN symbiosis conserve their functions in homologs from non-legumes, which do not nodulate.
20719871	Practitioners must have confidence in the capacity of their language measures to discriminate developmental language disorders from typical development and from other common disorders. In this study, psycholinguistic profiles were collected from 3 groups: children with specific language impairment (SLI), children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and children with typical development (TD). The capacity of different language indices to successfully discriminate SLI cases from TD and ADHD cases was examined through response operating characteristics curves, likelihood ratios, and binary logistic regression. The Test of Early Grammatical Impairment (Rice & Wexler, 2001a), Dollaghan and Campbell's (1998) nonword repetition task, Redmond's (2005) sentence recall task, and the Test of Narrative Language (Gillam & Pearson, 2004) were administered to 60 children (7-8 years of age). Diagnostic accuracy was high for all 4 psycholinguistic measures, although modest reductions were observed with the SLI versus ADHD discriminations. Classification accuracy associated with using the Test of Early Grammatical Impairment and the Sentence Recall task was equivalent to using all 4 measures. Outcomes confirmed and extended previous investigations, documenting high levels of diagnostic integrity for these particular indices and supporting their incorporation into eligibility decisions, differential diagnosis, and the identification of comorbidity.
20720018	Although γ-tocotrienol (T3), a vitamin E isolated primarily from palm and rice bran oil, has been linked with anticancer activities, the mechanism of this action is poorly understood. In this study, we investigated whether γ-T3 can modulate the STAT3 cell signaling pathway, closely linked to inflammation and tumorigenesis. We found that γ-T3 but not γ-tocopherol, the most common saturated form of vitamin E, inhibited constitutive activation of STAT3 in a dose- and time-dependent manner, and this inhibition was not cell type-specific. γ-T3 also inhibited STAT3 DNA binding. This correlated with inhibition of Src kinase and JAK1 and JAK2 kinases. Pervanadate reversed the γ-T3-induced down-regulation of STAT3 activation, suggesting the involvement of a protein-tyrosine phosphatase. When examined further, we found that γ-T3 induced the expression of the tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1, and gene silencing of the SHP-1 by small interfering RNA abolished the ability of γ-T3 to inhibit STAT3 activation, suggesting a vital role for SHP-1 in the action of γ-T3. Also γ-T3 down-modulated activation of STAT3 and induced SHP-1 in vivo. Eventually, γ-T3 down-regulated the expression of STAT3-regulated antiapoptotic (Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and Mcl-1), proliferative (cyclin D1), and angiogenic (VEGF) gene products; and this correlated with suppression of proliferation, the accumulation of cells in sub-G(1) phase of the cell cycle, and induction of apoptosis. This vitamin also sensitized the tumor cells to the apoptotic effects of thalidomide and bortezomib. Overall, our results suggest that γ-T3 is a novel blocker of STAT3 activation pathway both in vitro and in vivo and thus may have potential in prevention and treatment of cancers.
20720170	Given the substantial changes in mitochondrial gene expression, the mitochondrial proteome, and respiratory function during rice (Oryza sativa) germination under anaerobic and aerobic conditions, we have attempted to identify changes in mitochondrial membrane transport capacity during these processes. We have assembled a preliminary rice mitochondrial carrier gene family of 50 members, defined its orthology to carriers of known function, and observed significant changes in microarray expression data for these rice genes during germination under aerobic and anaerobic conditions and across rice development. To determine if these transcript changes reflect alteration of the carrier profile itself and to determine which members of the family encode the major mitochondrial carrier proteins, we analyzed mitochondrial integral membrane protein preparations using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and peptide mass spectrometry, identifying seven distinct carrier proteins. We have used mass spectrometry-based quantitative approaches to compare the abundance of these carriers between mitochondria from dry seeds and those from aerobic- or anaerobic-germinated seeds. We highlight an anaerobic-enhanced basic amino acid carrier and show concomitant increases in mitochondrial arginase and the abundance of arginine and ornithine in anaerobic-germinated seeds, consistent with an anaerobic role of this mitochondria carrier. The potential role of this carrier in facilitating mitochondrial involvement in arginine metabolism and the plant urea cycle during the growth of rice coleoptiles and early seed nitrate assimilation under anaerobic conditions are discussed.
20720299	We report on generation of marker-free (‘clean DNA’) transgenic rice (Oryza sativa), carrying minimal gene-expression-cassettes of the genes of interest, and evaluation of its resistance to yellow stem borer Scirpophaga incertulas (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae). The transgenic indica rice harbours a translational fusion of 2 different Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) genes, namely cry1B-1Aa, driven by the green-tissue-specific phosphoenol pyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) promoter. Mature seed-derived calli of an elite indica rice cultivar Pusa Basmati-1 were co-bombarded with gene-expression-cassettes (clean DNA fragments) of the Bt gene and the marker hpt gene, to generate marker-free transgenic rice plants. The clean DNA fragments for bombardment were obtained by restriction digestion and gel extraction. Through biolistic transformation, 67 independent transformants were generated. Transformation frequency reached 3.3&percnt;, and 81% of the transgenic plants were co-transformants. Stable integration of the Bt gene was confirmed, and the insert copy number was determined by Southern analysis. Western analysis and ELISA revealed a high level of Bt protein expression in transgenic plants. Progeny analysis confirmed stable inheritance of the Bt gene according to the Mendelian (3:1) ratio. Insect bioassays revealed complete protection of transgenic plants from yellow stem borer infestation. PCR analysis of T2 progeny plants resulted in the recovery of up to 4% marker-free transgenic rice plants.
20720788	A significant advance is reported in imaging the polarimetry of a terrestrial area of Earth located along the Mississippi River near New Madrid, Missouri. Color imagery was obtained with twin Hasselblad cameras with mutually perpendicular polarization analyzers. Digitization of the imagery in three colors (red, green, and blue) was accomplished at the Johnson Space Center Video Digital Analysis System Laboratory, Houston, Texas. A ground resolution of 80-90 m was achieved in the high-resolution imagery. Percent polarization was superior to photometry for recognition and characterization of farm crops such as rice, milo, cotton, and soybeans and of fallow areas. Statistical analyses of the percent-polarization data permit a unique classification of crops. Atmospheric effects may be deduced. Space-shuttle window distortion and viewing angle-sun geometry must be taken into account in analyzing the data.
20721691	The aim of this study was to assess the ecotoxicological effects of water coming from untreated organic and conventional rice field production areas in the Ebro Delta (Catalonia, Spain) treated with the herbicides oxadiazon, benzofenap, clomazone and bensulfuron-methyl and the fungicides carbendazim, tricyclazole and flusilazole. Irrigation and drainage channels of the study locations were also included to account for potential toxic effects of water coming in and out of the studied rice fields. Toxicity tests included four species (Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, Desmodesmus subcapitatus, Chlorella vulgaris and Daphnia magna), three endpoints (microalgae growth, D. magna mortality and feeding rates), and two trophic levels: primary producers (microalgae) and grazers (D. magna). Pesticides in water were analyzed by solid phase extraction-liquid chromatography-electrospray-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). Negative effects on algae growth and D. magna feeding rates were detected mainly after application of herbicides and fungicides, respectively, in the conventional rice field. Results indicated that most of the observed negative effects in microalgae and D. magna were explained by the presence of herbicides and fungicides. The above mentioned analyses also denoted an inverse relationship between phytoplankton biomass measured as chlorophyll a and herbicides. In summary, this study indicates that in real field situations low to moderate levels of herbicides and fungicides have negative impacts to planktonic organisms and these effects seem to be short-lived.
20722362	Investigations on the dissociation kinetics of hydrated protonium ions, (H(2)O)(2)H(+) and their deuterated species (D(2)O)(2)D(+), are reported based on the harmonic and anharmonic oscillator model using the transition state theory and ab initio calculations. We find that the dissociation of (H(2)O)(2)H(+) and (D(2)O)(2)D(+) exhibits a distinct threshold behavior due to the existence of activation energies. Moreover, the deviation between the harmonic and anharmonic dissociation rate constants becomes larger in the high energy or temperature range, with the rate constants becoming unreasonably large under the harmonic oscillator model. The isotope effect is found to become more distinct but only in the case of the anharmonic oscillator model. These results show that the anharmonic Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory can provide a reasonably good description for the dissociation of (H(2)O)(2)H(+) and (D(2)O)(2)D(+). Furthermore, a theoretical model to demonstrate the principle of vibrational predissociation spectroscopy (VPS) is established from the viewpoint of RRKM theory and applied in determining the experimental conditions and understanding the role of the dissociation rate constant k(E) played in the VPS experiment, using (H(2)O)(2)H(+) and (D(2)O)(2)D(+) as examples.
20722954	Brown rice has been reported to be more nutritious after germination. Germinated brown rice flours (GBRFs) from different steeping conditions (in distilled water [DI, pH 6.8] or in a buffer solution [pH 3] for either 24 or 48 h at 35 degrees C) were evaluated in this study. GBRF obtained from brown rice steeped at pH 3 for 48 h contained the highest amount of free gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA; 67 mg/100 g flour). The composite flour (wheat-GBRF) at a ratio of 70 : 30 exhibited significantly lower peak viscosity (PV) (56.99 - 132.45 RVU) with higher alpha-amylase activity (SN = 696 - 1826) compared with those of wheat flour (control) (PV = 136.46 RVU and SN = 1976). Bread formulations, containing 30% GBRF, had lower loaf volume and greater hardness (P < 0.05) than the wheat bread. However, the hardness of bread containing 30% GBRF (except at pH 6.8 and 24 h) was significantly lower than that of bread containing 30% nongerminated brown rice flour (BRF). Acceptability scores for aroma, taste, and flavor of breads prepared with or without GBRFs (30% substitution) were not significantly different, with the mean score ranging from 6.1 (like slightly) to 7 (like moderately). Among the bread formulations containing GBRF, the one with GBRF prepared after 24 h steeping at pH 3 had a slightly higher (though not significant) overall liking score (6.8). This study demonstrated that it is feasible to substitute wheat flour with up to 30% GBRF in bread formulation without negatively affecting sensory acceptance. Practical Application: Our previous study revealed that flours from germinated brown rice have better nutritional properties, particularly gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), than the nongerminated one. This study demonstrated feasibility of incorporating up to 30% germinated brown rice flour in a wheat bread formulation without negatively affecting sensory acceptance. In the current United States market, this type of bread may be sold as frozen bread which would have a longer shelf life. Further study is thus needed.
20722957	Selected physicochemical properties and consumer acceptance of bread prepared from composite flour (wheat:germinated brown rice:germinated glutinous brown rice flours at 60:30:10 ratio) were evaluated during storage for 0, 3, and 5 d, and compared with wheat bread (0 d, control). During storage, color profiles and water activity (from 0.947 to 0.932) of crumbs of composite flour breads slightly changed, but moisture content drastically decreased along with increasing crumb hardness (from 4.16 N to 10.37 N). Higher retrogradation in bread crumb was observed particularly for 5-d stored bread (DeltaH = 2.24 J/g) compared to that of the fresh composite bread and the control (DeltaH = 0.70 and 0.51 J/g, respectively). Mean (n = 116) overall liking score of the fresh composite flour bread (0 d) was slightly lower than that of the control (7.1 compared with 7.6 based on a 9-point hedonic scale). At least 76% of consumers would purchase the fresh composite flour bread if commercially available. Breads were differentiated by textural (moistness, smoothness, and softness) acceptability with canonical correlation of 0.84 to 0.87. The signal-to-noise ratio values of the 5-d stored breads were lower than the control, due mainly to the non-JAR (not-enough) intensity responses for moistness, smoothness, and softness; the mean drop of liking scores for these attributes ranged from 2.42 to 2.98. Flavor acceptability and overall liking were factors influencing consumers' purchase intent of composite flour breads based on logistic regression analysis. This study demonstrated feasibility of incorporating up to 40% germinated brown rice flour in a wheat bread formulation. Practical Application: Our previous study revealed that flours from germinated brown rice have better nutritional properties, particularly gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), than the nongerminated one. This study demonstrated feasibility of incorporating up to 40% germinated brown rice flour in a wheat bread formulation. In the current U.S. market, this type of bread may be sold as frozen bread that would have a longer shelf life, or may be supplied as a food-service product that would be made-to-order or made fresh daily as currently practiced in some major grocery stores.
20724075	In order to reduce the negative impact of coal utilization for energy generation, the pollutants present in the flue gas of coal combustion such as sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) and nitrogen oxide (NO) must be effectively removed before releasing to the atmosphere. Thus in this study, sorbent prepared from rice husk ash that is impregnated with copper is tested for simultaneous removal of SO(2) and NO from simulated flue gas. The effect of various sorbent preparation parameters; copper loading, RHA/CaO ratio, hydration period and NaOH concentration on the sorbent desulfurization/denitrification capacity was studied using Design-Expert Version 6.0.6 software. Specifically, Central Composite Design (CCD) coupled with Response Surface Method (RSM) was used. Significant individual parameters that affect the sorbent capacity are copper loading and NaOH concentration. Apart from that, interaction between the following parameters was also found to have significant effect; copper loading, RHA/CaO ratio and NaOH concentration. The optimum sorbent preparation condition for this study was found to be 3.06% CuO loading, RHA/CaO ratio of 1.41, 8.05 h of hydration period and NaOH concentration of 0.80 M. Sorbent characterization using SEM, XRD and surface area analysis were used to describe the effect of sorbent preparation parameters on the desulfurization/denitrification activity.
20724277	An efficient in vitro plant regeneration system was established for elite, recalcitrant Malaysian indica rice, Oryza sativa L. CV. MR 219 using mature seeds as explant on Murashige and Skoog and Chu N6 media containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid and kinetin either alone or in different combinations. L-proline, casein hydrolysate and L-glutamine were added to callus induction media for enhancement of embryogenic callus induction. The highest frequency of friable callus induction (84%) was observed in N6 medium containing 2.5 mg l(-1) 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid, 0.2 mg l(-1) kinetin, 2.5 mg l(-1) L-proline, 300 mg l(-1) casein hydrolysate, 20 mg l(-1) L-glutamine and 30 g l(-1) sucrose under culture in continuous lighting conditions. The maximum regeneration frequency (71%) was observed, when 30-day-old N6 friable calli were cultured on MS medium supplemented with 3 mg l(-1) 6-benzyl aminopurine, 1 mg l(-1) naphthalene acetic acid, 2.5 mg l(-1) L-proline, 300 mg l(-1) casein hydrolysate and 3% maltose. Developed shoots were rooted in half strength MS medium supplemented with 2% sucrose and were successfully transplanted to soil with 95% survival. This protocol may be used for other recalcitrant indica rice genotypes and to transfer desirable genes in to Malaysian indica rice cultivar MR219 for crop improvement.
20724838	Cytosolic free Ca(2+) mobilization induced by microbe/pathogen-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs/PAMPs) play key roles in plant innate immunity. However, components involved in Ca(2+) signaling pathways still remain to be identified and possible involvement of the CBL (calcineurin B-like proteins)-CIPK (CBL-interacting protein kinases) system in biotic defense signaling has yet to be clarified. Recently we identified two CIPKs, OsCIPK14 and OsCIPK15, which are rapidly induced by MAMPs, involved in various MAMP-induced immune responses including defense-related gene expression, phytoalexin biosynthesis and hypersensitive cell death. MAMP-induced production of reactive oxygen species as well as cell browning were also suppressed in OsCIPK14/15-RNAi transgenic cell lines. Possible molecular mechanisms and physiological functions of the CIPKs in plant innate immunity are discussed.
20725722	Archaeal communities from mercury and uranium-contaminated freshwater stream sediments were characterized and compared to archaeal communities present in an uncontaminated stream located in the vicinity of Oak Ridge, TN, USA. The distribution of the Archaea was determined by pyrosequencing analysis of the V4 region of 16S rRNA amplified from 12 streambed surface sediments. Crenarchaeota comprised 76% of the 1,670 archaeal sequences and the remaining 24% were from Euryarchaeota. Phylogenetic analysis further classified the Crenarchaeota as a Freshwater Group, Miscellaneous Crenarchaeota group, Group I3, Rice Cluster VI and IV, Marine Group I and Marine Benthic Group B; and the Euryarchaeota into Methanomicrobiales, Methanosarcinales, Methanobacteriales, Rice Cluster III, Marine Benthic Group D, Deep Sea Hydrothermal Vent Euryarchaeota 1 and Eury 5. All groups were previously described. Both hydrogen- and acetate-dependent methanogens were found in all samples. Most of the groups (with 60% of the sequences) described in this study were not similar to any cultivated isolates, making it difficult to discern their function in the freshwater microbial community. A significant decrease in the number of sequences, as well as in the diversity of archaeal communities was found in the contaminated sites. The Marine Group I, including the ammonia oxidizer Nitrosopumilus maritimus, was the dominant group in both mercury and uranium/nitrate-contaminated sites. The uranium-contaminated site also contained a high concentration of nitrate, thus Marine Group I may play a role in nitrogen cycle.
20726232	To observe the sub-chronic toxic effects of the genetically modified rice with double antisense SBE gene. Based on gender and weight, weanling Wistar rats were randomly sorted into five groups: non-genetically modified rice group (group A), genetically modified rice group (group B), half genetically modified rice group (group C), quarter genetically modified rice group (group D) and AIN-93G normal diet group (group E). Indicators were the followings: body weight, food consumption, blood routine, blood biochemical test, organ weight, bone density and pathological examination of organs. At the middle of the experiment, the percentage of monocyte of female group B was less than that of group E (P < 0.05). AST activity of female group B was higher than that of group E (P < 0.05). ALT activity of female group C was higher than that of groups A and E (P < 0.05). At the end of the experiment, AST and ALT activities of female group B were higher than those of group E (P < 0.05). Hematocrit (HCT) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level of male group B were less than those of group A (P < 0.05), and monocyte was higher than that of group E (P < 0.05). The brain index of female group B was higher than group A (P < 0.05) and the kidney index of group E were higher than those of groups B, C and D (P < 0.05). There were no significant difference of blood lipids, calcium and bone mineral density among all groups (P > 0.05), and no notable abnormity in the pathological examination of main organs (P > 0.05). There were no enough evidence to confirm the sub-chronic toxicity of genetically modified rice on rats.
20726242	To provide data for decision-making and community nutrition intervention for middle and aged women, the dietary patterns and nutritional status were investigated in Shanghai. A stratified cluster random sampling dietary survey was performed for a sample (n = 596) of women aged 45 to 65 years old from 2 streets in Shanghai. Factor analysis was applied to define major dietary patterns by using dietary information collected from food-frequency questionnaires (FFQs), and to further examine associations between dietary patterns and main nutrients and demographic characteristics. Four major dietary patterns were identified. The first pattern was characterized by higher intake of eggs, legumes and products, second pattern was characterized by higher of oil, sugar and condiments, the third pattern was characterized by a higher intake of dairy, vegetables and rice, while the fourth pattern was characterized by higher intake of fruits, beef and fish. Oil, sugar and condiments pattern associated with higher total energy and fat percentage of energy (P < 0.001), lower educated (P = 0.009) and lower household income (P = 0.008). A positively correlation was found between rice, vegetables, dairy pattern with calcium, protein and carbohydrates percentage of energy, and inversely correlated with BMI (P = 0.019), as well as energy and total fat. Fruit, meat and fish pattern was higher for the protein, vitamins B2, vitamin B6 and vitamin C. But no positive correlation was found between eggs and legumes and products pattern with nutrients intake or other sample characteristics. Rice, vegetables and milk dietary pattern was associated with reduced risk of overweight and obesity.
20726907	The brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, is the most devastating rice insect pest to have given rise to an outbreak in recent years. RNA interference (RNAi) is a technological breakthrough that has been developed as a powerful tool for studying gene function and for the highly targeted control of insect pests. Here, we examined the effects of using a feeding-based RNAi technique to target the gene trehalose phosphate synthase (TPS) in N. lugens. The full-length cDNA of N. lugens TPS (NlTPS) is 3235 bp and has an open reading frame of 2424 bp, encoding a protein of 807 amino acids. NlTPS was expressed in the fat body, midgut and ovary. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis revealed that NlTPS mRNA is expressed continuously with little change during the life of the insect. Efficient silencing of the TPS gene through double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) feeding led to rapid and significant reduction levels of TPS mRNA and enzymatic activity. Additionally, the development of N. lugens larvae that had been fed with the dsRNA was disturbed, resulting in lethality, and the cumulative survival rates dropped to 75.56, 64.44, 55.56 and 40.00% after continuous ingestion of 0.5 µg/µl dsRNA for 2, 4, 7 and 10 days, respectively. These values were significantly lower than those of the insects in the control group, suggesting that NlTPS dsRNA may be useful as a means of insect pest control.
20727618	Physiological and metabolic responses to anoxia were compared for aerobically germinated seedlings of barley (Hordeum vulgare), oat (Avena sativa) and rice (Oryza sativa). Coleoptile growth of barley, oat and rice seedlings was suppressed by a 24 h-anoxic stress, but the growth of the rice coleoptiles was much greater than that of the barley and oat coleoptiles. ATP concentration in the anoxic rice coleoptiles was greater than that in the anoxic barley and oat coleoptiles. Concentrations of ethanol and activity of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) in the anoxic rice coleoptiles were also greater than those of the anoxic barley and oat coleoptiles, suggesting that ethanolic fermentation may be more active in the rice coleoptiles than in the barley and oat coleoptiles, where glycolysis and ethanolic fermentation are the main source of ATP production. Soluble sugar concentration in the anoxic rice coleoptiles was greater than that of the anoxic barley and oat coleoptiles. However, α-amylase, which catabolizes reserve starch to soluble sugars, was active in anoxic barley, oat and rice endosperms, and soluble sugar concentration in the anoxic barley, oat and rice endosperms was not significantly different. Therefore, anoxia stress may inhibit soluble sugar transport from the endosperms to the coleoptiles in barley and oat more than in rice. Since the availability of soluble sugar is essential for operation of glycolysis and fermentation in plant cells, ability for sugar transport from the endosperms to the coleoptiles may be one means to distinguish the coleoptile growth of these plant species in anoxia and anoxia tolerance of these plants.
20727822	We purified three xylanase isozymes (XynF1, XynF3 and XynG2) from a solid-state Aspergillus oryzae RIB128 culture using chromatography. The results of our sake-brewing experiment, in which we used exogenously supplemented enzymes, revealed that only XynG2 improved the alcohol yield and the material utilization. The alcohol yield of the XynG2 batch displayed an increase of 4.4% in comparison to the control, and the amount of sake cake decreased by 4.6%. The contribution of XynG2 was further confirmed through our brewing experiment in which we used the yeast heterogeneously expressing fungal xylanase isozymes. Interestingly XynG1, an enzyme with a XynG2-like sequence that is more vulnerable to ethanol, did not improve the sake-mash fermentation. The stability of XynG2 in ethanol was prominent, and it retained most of its original activity after we exposed it to 80% ethanol for 30min, whereas the stability of the other isozymes in ethanol, including XynG1, was much lower (20-25% ethanol). We concluded, therefore, that the improvement of material utilization achieved with XynG2 is primarily attributable to its characteristically high stability in ethanol, thereby, effectively degrading rice endosperm cell walls under high-alcohol conditions such as a sake-mash environment.
20728960	We present here the comparative protective potentiality of exogenously applied polyamines (PAs), namely spermidine (Spd) and spermine (Spm), in mitigating NaCl toxicity and inducing short-term salinity tolerance in three indica rice varieties, namely M-1-48 (salt-sensitive), Nonabokra (salt-tolerant) and Gobindobhog (highly sensitive). The retardation in root length or shoot length and toxic Na(+) accumulation or K(+) loss, the considerable increment in malondialdehyde/H(2)O(2) accumulation or lipoxygenase activity, all of which were particularly noteworthy in M-1-48 and Gobindobhog during salinity stress, was appreciably reduced by co-treatment with Spd or Spm. Both the PAs also inhibited the extent of salt-induced protein carbonylation in all the varieties and enhanced protease activity, especially in Gobindobhog. The prevention of chlorophyll degradation was better with Spd in Nonabokra and Gobindobhog. While the salt-induced increase in anthocyanin or reducing sugar level was further prompted by Spd or Spm in all the varieties, the proline content was elevated by Spd particularly in Gobindobhog. During salinity stress, both the PAs were effective in lowering the putrescine accumulation in M-1-48 and Gobindobhog, and strikingly increasing the Spm level in all the varieties, the highest being in Gobindobhog. In addition, they enhanced the activity of peroxidases and compensated for the decreased catalase activity in all the varieties. Thus the two PAs could recuperate all the three varieties from salt-induced damages to different degrees. The salt injuries, encountered in M-1-48 and Gobindobhog, both of which showed greater susceptibility to salinity stress, were more pronouncedly alleviated and counteracted by the PAs, than the salt-tolerant Nonabokra. The reversal of inhibitory effect of salinity stress was conferred by preventing growth inhibition or various forms of cellular damages, maintaining proper K(+)/Na(+) balance or triggering the level of osmolytes and activity of antioxidant enzymes. Our communication offers a referenced evidence for an understanding of the mechanism by which higher PAs relieve the damages particularly in salt-sensitive rice varieties.
20729474	Heterosis is a biological phenomenon whereby the offspring from two parents show improved and superior performance than either inbred parental lines. Hybrid rice is one of the most successful apotheoses in crops utilizing heterosis. Transcriptional profiling of F(1) super-hybrid rice Liangyou-2186 and its parents by serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) revealed 1183 differentially expressed genes (DGs), among which DGs were found significantly enriched in pathways such as photosynthesis and carbon-fixation, and most of the key genes involved in the carbon-fixation pathway exhibited up-regulated expression in F(1) hybrid rice. Moreover, increased catabolic activity of corresponding enzymes and photosynthetic efficiency were also detected, which combined to indicate that carbon fixation is enhanced in F(1) hybrid, and might probably be associated with the yield vigor and heterosis in super-hybrid rice. By correlating DGs with yield-related quantitative trait loci (QTL), a potential relationship between differential gene expression and phenotypic changes was also found. In addition, a regulatory network involving circadian-rhythms and light signaling pathways was also found, as previously reported in Arabidopsis, which suggest that such a network might also be related with heterosis in hybrid rice. Altogether, the present study provides another view for understanding the molecular mechanism underlying heterosis in rice.
20729483	In addition to regulating growth and development, the most important function of microRNAs (miRNAs) in plants is the regulation of a variety of cellular processes underlying plant adaptation to environmental stresses. To gain a deep understanding of the mechanism of drought tolerance in rice, genome-wide profiling and analysis of miRNAs was carried out in drought-challenged rice across a wide range of developmental stages, from tillering to inflorescence formation, using a microarray platform. Among the 30 miRNAs identified as significantly down- or up-regulated under the drought stress, 11 down-regulated miRNAs (miR170, miR172, miR397, miR408, miR529, miR896, miR1030, miR1035, miR1050, miR1088, and miR1126) and eight up-regulated miRNAs (miR395, miR474, miR845, miR851, miR854, miR901, miR903, and miR1125) were revealed for the first time to be induced by drought stress in plants, and nine (miR156, miR168, miR170, miR171, miR172, miR319, miR396, miR397, and miR408) showed opposite expression to that observed in drought-stressed Arabidopsis. The most conserved down-regulated miRNAs were ath-miR170, the miR171 family, and ath-miR396, and the most conserved up-regulated miRNAs were ptc-miR474 and ath-miR854a. The identification of differentially expressed novel plant miRNAs and their target genes, and the analysis of cis-elements provides molecular evidence for the possible involvement of miRNAs in the process of drought response and/or tolerance in rice.
20730357	Among the phytophagous insects which attack crops, the fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith, 1797) (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae) is particularly harmful in the initial growth phase of rice plants. As a potential means of controlling this pest, and considering that the entomopathogen Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner demonstrates toxicity due to synthesis of the Cry protein, the present study was undertaken to evaluate this toxic effect of B. thuringiensis thuringiensis 407 (pH 408) and B. thuringiensis kurstaki HD-73 on S. frugiperda. The following method was used. Both bacterial strains were evaluated in vitro in 1st instar S. frugiperda caterpillars, by means of histopathological assays. The Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac proteins, codified by the respective strains of B. thuringiensis, were evaluated in vivo by bioassays of 1st instar S. frugiperda caterpillars in order to determine the Mean Lethal Concentration (LC50). The results of the histopathological analysis of the midget of S. frugiperda caterpillars demonstrate that treatment with the B. thuringiensis thuringiensis strain was more efficient, because the degradations of the microvilosities started 9 hours after treatment application (HAT), while in the B. thuringiensis kurstaki the same effect was noticed only after 12 HAT. Toxicity data of the Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac proteins presented for the target-species LC50 levels of 9.29 and 1.79 microgxcm-2 respectively. The strains and proteins synthesised by B. thuringiensis thuringiensis and B. thuringiensis kurstaki are effective in controlling S. frugiperda, and may be used to produce new biopesticides or the genes may be utilised in the genetic transformation of Oryza sativa L.
20730507	A thermotolerant Aspergillus fumigatus strain isolated from composting pile of mixed industrial waste was found to produce a spectrum of cellulase and hemicellulases when cultured on rice straw solidified substrate. The two-dimensional electrophoresis (2DE) resolved the secretome into 57 distinct protein spots. The zymograms developed against 2DE gels identified the presence of three β-glucosidases and five CBHI/EGI isoforms in the secretome. The peptide mass fingerprinting of 17 protein spots by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry characterized the secretome into different glycosyl hydrolase families. The enzyme cocktail produced by A. fumigatus was capable of efficient hydrolysis of alkali pretreated rice straw (at 7% and 10% w/v) resulting in 95% and 91% saccharification, respectively.
20730532	The Monascus pigment, rubropunctatin, was extracted and purified from red mold rice (RMR) and its cytotoxic activities against human gastric adenocarcinoma BGC-823 cells were studied both in vitro and in vivo. Rubropunctatin inhibited the proliferation of BGC-823 cells with an inhibitory concentration (IC₅₀) of 12.57 μM, while it exhibited no significant toxicity to normal gastric epithelial cell GES-1 at the same concentration. Treatment of BGC-823 cells with rubropunctatin resulted in a dose- and time-dependent apoptosis, as validated by the increase in the percentage of cells in sub-G1 phase and phosphotidylserine externalization. The in vivo experimental data demonstrated that rubropunctatin could offer similar therapeutic benefits in comparison with the same dose of taxol. After five times of intravenous injection, tumor weight in BGC-823-bearing nude mice reduced 23.5% at the dose of 8 mg/kg and 37.7% at the dose of 32 mg/kg, respectively. The expressions of 30 genes related to induction of apoptosis were found up-regulated significantly. The two most expressed genes were tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and DNA-damage inducible transcript 3. TNF was considered as a major mediator of apoptosis induced by rubropunctatin. This is the first report describing the anti-proliferative effect of rubropunctatin and its apoptosis mechanism on BGC-823 cells. Rubropunctatin has potential to be developed as a new natural anti-cancer agent.
20730992	Chlorantraniliprole, a novel anthranilic diamide insecticide, was recently introduced into the United States where rice-crayfish crop rotations are practiced to control rice water weevil (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel) infestations. Chlorantraniliprole has high margins of mammalian safety and excellent insecticidal efficacy, but its toxicity to non-target crayfish is uncertain. In this study, the acute toxicity of chlorantraniliprole to the red swamp crayfish Procambarus clarkii Girard was determined using aquatic and feeding assays. The aquatic 96 h median lethal toxicity (LC(50)) data indicate that technical-grade chlorantraniliprole is highly toxic (US EPA category) to crayfish with an LC(50) of 951 microg L(-1) (95% CL = 741-1118 microg L(-1)). A no observed effect concentration (NOEC) of 480 microg L(-1) was recorded. Neither the 36 day chronic feeding study, where crayfish fed on chlorantraniliprole-treated rice seed in aquaria, nor the 144 h acute feeding test, where crayfish fed on rice seeds treated with chlorantraniliprole, produced mortality or abnormal behavior. Chlorantraniliprole is three orders of magnitude less acutely toxic to P. clarkii than lambda-cyhalothrin and etofenprox, two pyrethroid insecticides also used in rice, and is less likely to cause acute crayfish toxicity in rice pond ecosystems. Based on acute toxicity data, the use of chlorantraniliprole should be more compatible with rice-crayfish crop rotations than pyrethroids.
20730995	One promising area of rice disease management is the potential of exploiting biological control agents. Rice seedling rot disease caused by soil-borne pathogenic fungi has become a dominant disease problem because of greater use of direct seeding. Rice hull has been potentially used to control paddy weeds, but little information is available on rice disease. This study was conducted to investigate the relationships between disease incidence and soil amended with tricin-releasing rice hull, and to assess fungicidal activity of tricin and its synthesised aurone isomer, with an attempt to develop an allelochemical-based fungicide against rice seedling rot disease. Tricin was detected in all hulls of 12 rice cultivars tested, but its contents in rice hulls varied greatly with the cultivar and genotype. Tricin in rice hulls was released into the soil once amended. Disease incidence was significantly reduced by soil amended with rice hull. Tricin-rich rice hull amendment greatly suppressed soil-borne pathogenic fungi Fusarium oxysporum Schlecht. and Rhizoctonia solani Kühn which cause rice seedling rot disease. In attempting to obtain enough tricin for further experiments, the aurone isomer (5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyaurone) of tricin rather than tricin itself was unexpectedly synthesised. This aurone isomer had much stronger fungicidal activity on both F. oxysporum and R. solani than tricin itself. Soil amended with tricin-rich rice hull was associated with reduced risk of developing seedling rot disease. The tricin isomer, aurone, is more effective against rice seedling rot disease than tricin itself, making it an ideal lead compound for new fungicide discovery.
20731354	We investigated the inhibitory effects of black rice (cv. LK1-3-6-12-1-1) bran against 12-O-tetradecanolylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced skin edema and 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB)-induced allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) in inflammatory mouse models. We also determined the effects of the bran extract on the following biomarkers: pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), eicosanoids leukotriene B4 (LTB4), and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Topical application of TPA to ears of CD-1 mice induced inflammation accompanied with substantial increase in TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, LTB4, and PGE2 levels and an elevation in intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) gene expressions in ear skin tissues. Intraperitoneal injection of black rice bran extract prior to TPA application in mice significantly suppressed TPA-induced inflammation (edema) and induced a marked decrease in the production of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and LTB4. Feeding mice a standard diet with added 10% black rice bran also significantly suppressed DNFB-induced allergic contact dermatitis on the skin of the mice. By contrast, a nonpigmented brown rice bran extract did not inhibit the TPA-induced edema and failed to significantly suppress production of pro-inflammatory biomarkers (mediators). These in vivo findings further demonstrate the potential value of black rice bran as an anti-inflammatory and antiallergic food ingredient and possibly also as a therapeutic agent for the treatment and prevention of diseases associated with chronic inflammation.
20731786	Photosensitizers are common in nature and play diverse roles as defense compounds and pathogenicity determinants and as important molecules in many biological processes. Toxoflavin, a photosensitizer produced by Burkholderia glumae, has been implicated as an essential virulence factor causing bacterial rice grain rot. Toxoflavin produces superoxide and H₂O₂ during redox cycles under oxygen and light, and these reactive oxygen species cause phytotoxic effects. To utilize toxoflavin as a selection agent in plant transformation, we identified a gene, tflA, which encodes a toxoflavin-degrading enzyme in the Paenibacillus polymyxa JH2 strain. TflA was estimated as 24.56 kDa in size based on the amino acid sequence and is similar to a ring-cleavage extradiol dioxygenase in the Exiguobacterium sp. 255-15; however, unlike other extradiol dioxygenases, Mn(2+) and dithiothreitol were required for toxoflavin degradation by TflA. Here, our results suggested toxoflavin is a photosensitizer and its degradation by TflA serves as a light-dependent selection marker system in diverse plant species. We examined the efficiencies of two different plant selection systems, toxoflavin/tflA and hygromycin/hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) in both rice and Arabidopsis. The toxoflavin/tflA selection was more remarkable than hygromycin/hpt selection in the high-density screening of transgenic Arabidopsis seeds. Based on these results, we propose the toxoflavin/tflA selection system, which is based on the degradation of the photosensitizer, provides a new robust nonantibiotic selection marker system for diverse plants.
20732294	The strigolactones are internal and rhizosphere signalling molecules in plants that are biosynthesised through carotenoid cleavage. They are secreted by host roots into the rhizosphere where they signal host-presence to the symbiotic arbuscular mycrorrhizal (AM) fungi and the parasitic plants of the Orobanche, Phelipanche and Striga genera. The seeds of these parasitic plants germinate after perceiving these signalling molecules. After attachment to the host root, the parasite negatively affects the host plant by withdrawing water, nutrients and assimilates through a direct connection with the host xylem. In many areas of the world these parasites are a threat to agriculture but so far very limited success has been achieved to minimize losses due to these parasitic weeds. Considering the carotenoid origin of the strigolactones, in the present study we investigated the possibilities to reduce strigolactone production in the roots of plants by blocking carotenoid biosynthesis using carotenoid inhibitors. Hereto the carotenoid inhibitors fluridone, norflurazon, clomazone and amitrole were applied to rice either through irrigation or through foliar spray. Irrigation application of all carotenoid inhibitors and spray application of amitrole significantly decreased strigolactone production, Striga hermonthica germination and Striga infection, also in concentrations too low to affect growth and development of the host plant. Hence, we demonstrate that the application of carotenoid inhibitors to plants can affect S. hermonthica germination and attachment indirectly by reducing the strigolactone concentration in the rhizosphere. This finding is useful for further studies on the relevance of the strigolactones in rhizosphere signalling. Since these inhibitors are available and accessible, they may represent an efficient technology for farmers, including poor subsistence farmers in the African continent, to control these harmful parasitic weeds.
20734061	Phytic acid (inositol-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexakisphosphate or InsP(6)) is the primary storage form of phosphorus in plant seeds. The rice OsLpa1 encodes a novel protein required for wild-type levels of seed InsP(6) and was identified from a low phytic acid (lpa) mutant exhibiting a 45-50% reduction in seed InsP(6). OsLpa1 is highly conserved in plants and Arabidopsis contains two OsLpa1-like genes, At3g45090 and At5g60760. Analysis of homozygous T-DNA insertion mutants of At5g60760 revealed significantly reduced levels of seed InsP(6) while no changes were observed in seeds of At3g45090 mutants. A double knockout mutant of At5g60760 and At3g45090 was created and its seed InsP(6) content was similar to that of the At5g60760 mutant indicating that At3g45090 does not provide functional redundancy. OsLpa1 was confirmed to be the ortholog of At5g60760 by complementation of a knockout mutant with a cDNA clone corresponding to the largest of three alternative transcripts of OsLpa1. The spatial and temporal expression of At5g60760 during seed development is consistent with its involvement in seed InsP(6) biosynthesis.
20734250	Arabidopsis is the dominating model species for plant developmental biology, but other species serve as models for processes that cannot be studied in Arabidopsis, such as compound leaf or wood formation, or to test the universality of developmental mechanisms initially identified in Arabidopsis. Research in plant developmental biology depends critically on robust growth protocols that will support reproducible development. Here, protocols are given to grow Antirrhinum, Arabidopsis, Brachypodium, maize, Medicago, Petunia, rice, and tomato in the laboratory.
20734254	Several systems for induction of transgene expression in plants have been described recently. Inducible systems were used mainly in tobacco, rice, Arabidopsis, tomato, and maize. Inducible systems offer researchers the possibility to deregulate gene expression levels at particular stages of plant development and in particular tissues of interest. The more precise temporal and spatial control, obtained by providing the transgenic plant with the appropriate chemical compound or treatment, permits to analyze also the function of those genes required for plant viability. In addition, inducible systems allow promoting local changes in gene expression levels without causing gross alterations to the whole plant development. Here, protocols will be presented to work with five different inducible systems: AlcR/AlcA (ethanol inducible); GR fusions, GVG, and pOp/LhGR (dexamethasone inducible); XVE/OlexA (beta-estradiol inducible); and heat shock induction.
20734811	A number of substrates were tested for the cultivation of microorganisms to produce a host of enzymes. The effect of different substrates (wheat and rice straw, sugar cane waste, wood waste), incubation temperatures (20-40 degrees C), initial pH levels (3.5-9.0), incubation periods (0-72 hours) and nitrogen sources (ammonium sulfate, urea, peptone, yeast extract, sodium nitrate) on growth and alpha-amylase activity was studied for the native and mutant strains. Maximum enzyme activity was observed at 1.5% wheat straw for Aspergillus niger FCBP-198 and An-Ch-4.7 and at 2% wheat straw for An-UV-5.6, with sodium nitrate as a principle nitrogen source. The optimum temperature for maximum enzyme activity was 30 degrees C for the parental strain, while An-UV-5.6 and An-Ch-4.7 thrived well at 32.5 degrees C. The best conditions of pH and incubation duration were 4.5 and 48 hours, respectively, for all the strains. Mass production under preoptimized growth conditions demonstrated the suitability of wheat straw for swift mycelial colonization and viability.
20734987	Rings or arcs of fungus-regulated plant growth occur often on the floor of woodlands, in agricultural areas, and in grasslands worldwide. These rings are commonly called "fairy rings". A plant-growth regulating compound was isolated from a fairy ring forming fungus, Lepista sordida , and its chemical structure was identified as imidazole-4-carboxamide (ICA) by spectroscopic analyses including single-crystal X-ray diffraction techniques. ICA inhibited the growth of turfgrass and rice seedling. On the other hand, in a greenhouse experiment, this compound increased rice grain yield by 26% compared with control.
20735133	In recent years, lignin and extractives from herbaceous plants and crops are receiving increasing attention for their renewability and large annual biomass stock. It is worth noting that only a few studies deal with the chemical characterization of rice husk, a side product of one of the most important crops with regard to human nutrition. Thus, in this study lignin from rice husk was isolated and characterized. Two different extraction procedures were optimized and tested: acidolysis and alkaline enzymatic (AE). The different lignins isolated were fully characterized by means of gravimetric, chromatographic (GPC), and spectroscopic (31P NMR, 2D-HSQC-NMR) analyses with the aim to compare yields, sample purity, and chemical properties, recognized as key parameters for future development. Notwithstanding the extraction procedure, the results highlighted that rice husk lignin is mainly formed by guaiacyl and p-hydroxyphenyl units. The acidolytic approach showed an appreciable lignin recovery and high purity, whereas the AE lignin sample was found to be rich in residual polysaccharides and oxidized functionalities. Moreover, different rice husk extracts, along with acidolysis lignin and AE lignin specimens, were assayed for their antioxidant activity by means of a DPPH radical scavenging test.
20735154	Enzyme-treated rice fiber (ERF) is a recently developed prebiotic product made from rice bran by heat-resistant amylase, protease and hemicellulase treatment. Although the detailed mechanism of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is still unclear, the role of the resident luminal bacteria and its interaction on the mucosal barrier seem to be an important factor in the development of IBD and its chronicity. With the objective of manipulating the intestinal microbiota in IBD, this study was carried out to evaluate the effects of ERF on IBD with using experimental colitis models. Three colitis models were used and they were induced by the oral administration of dextran sodium sulfate in male Sprague-Dawley rats or BALB/c mice and transferring CD4+ CD45RB(high) T cells to female SCID mice, sequentially their CD4+ T cells were retransferred to new SCID mice. The evaluation included the measurement of body weight, spleen weight, colon length, histological examination, serum and mucosal cytokine (tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), an interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), interleukin-12 p70 (IL-12p70), IL-1β, IL-6, IL-4) analysis, mucosal serotonin (5HT), and organic acid production and a microbiota analysis of the cecal contents. The characteristics of T cell surface markers including CD4, CD69, CD45RB of spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) were also analyzed. In addition, the effects of ERF on the change in the induction of dendritic cells (DCs) were evaluated. The preventive effect of ERF on colitis was significantly superior to that of raw material rice bran or control group. An overexpression of inflammatory cytokine production was attenuated by ERF treatment, which was accompanied with a decrease in both the colonic mucosal damage and 5HT production. Furthermore, ERF significantly attenuated the T cell activation (CD4+CD69+) of spleen and MLN, and this characteristic was inherited by the retransferred mice. ERF significantly suppressed the growth of Clostiridium, and increased short-chain fatty acids (acetate, propionate and butyrate) content in colitis. The relatively hydrophilic fraction of ERF (ethanol-methanol soluble fraction) is therefore considered to have a potent ability to attenuate the induction of DCs. A new prebiotic, ERF, reduced inflammation by modulating the colonic environment and regulating immune cell differentiation. Although a more detailed study is required, this study showed the promising anti-inflammatory effects of an adjunctive prebiotic treatment for IBD.
20735599	Field and laboratory studies were conducted to evaluate the intestinal responses to partial replacement of fish meal with rice protein concentrate (RPC) in practical diets for blackspot seabream Pagellus bogaraveo. Two experimental diets were formulated to be isoproteic and isoenergetic with an increasing level of RPC (20 and 35%, respectively) and were tested against a fish meal-based control diet (RPC0). The diets showed similar features for growth performances and both intestinal histology and digestive enzymes. This study confirmed that RPC does not induce intestinal mucosa alterations in this fish. The dietary RPC supplement caused a significant increase in trypsin activity, whereas lipase activity was reduced.
20735745	A comprehensive understanding of the sap flow dynamics and xylem hydraulic properties is essential to unravel the functional features of water transport from roots to shoots in vascular plants. To evaluate quantitatively the safety and efficiency of this system, nondestructive methods to assess the interactions between sap ascent kinetics and xylem structure are required. In this study, synchrotron X-ray microscopy was employed to observe anatomical structures and sap flow dynamics in rice (Oryza sativa) xylem simultaneously. The phase-contrast imaging technique allowed nondestructive observation of the xylem structural characteristics and the air-water interfaces generated by dehydration-rehydration cycles in excised leaves. This X-ray microimaging method provided a unique tool to characterize the perforated end walls of vessel elements and to evaluate their influence on hydraulic resistance during the refilling of embolized vessels. The real-time monitoring of the axial and radial sap flow under various environmental conditions highlighted the important role of perforation plates. In summary, we report a new methodology to study the sap flow dynamics and xylem hydraulic properties with μm spatial and ms temporal resolution using X-ray microscopy. The experimental procedure described herein provides a useful handle to understand key sap transport phenomena in xylem.
20737264	Starch paste viscosity plays an important role in estimating the cooking, eating, and processing quality of rice. The inheritance of starch paste viscosity in glutinous rice remains undefined. In the present study, 118 glutinous rice accessions were collected, and the genotypes of 17 starch synthesis-related genes (SSRG) were analyzed by using 43 gene-specific molecular markers. Association analysis indicated that 10 of 17 SSRGs were involved in controlling the rapid visco analyzer (RVA) profile parameters. Among these, the PUL gene was identified to play an important role in control of peak viscosity (PKV), hot paste viscosity (HPV), cool paste viscosity (CPV), breakdown viscosity (BDV), peak time (PeT), and paste temperature (PaT) in glutinous rice. Other SSRGs involved only a few RVA profile parameters. Furthermore, interactions between SSRGs were found being responsible for PeT, PaT, and BDV. Some of the RVA parameters, including PKV, HPV, CPV, CSV, and PaT, were mainly governed by single SSRG, whereas other parameters, such as BDV, SBV, and PeT, were controlled by a few SSRGs, functioning cooperatively. Further, three near-isogenic lines (NIL) of a japonica glutinous cv. Suyunuo as genetic background, with PUL, SSIII-1, and SSIII-2 alleles replaced with those of indica cv. Guichao 2, were employed to verify the genetic effects of the various genes, and the results were consistent with those obtained from the association analysis. These findings indicated that starch paste viscosity in glutinous rice had a complex genetic system, and the PUL gene played an important role in determining the RVA profile parameters in glutinous rice. These results provide important information for potentially improving the quality of glutinous rice.
20737915	The toxic effects of H2S on plants are well documented. However, the molecular mechanisms reponsible for inhibition of plants by H2S are still not completely understood. We determined the effects of NaHS in the range of 0.5-10 mM on the growth of rice suspension culture cells, as well as on the expression of the alternative oxidase (AOX) gene. AOX is the terminal oxidase of the alternative pathway (AP) and exists in plant mitochondria. The results showed that H2S treatment enhanced the AP activity. During the process of H2S treatment for 4 h, the AP activity increased dramatically and achieved the peak value at a concentration of 2 mM NaHS. Then it declined at higher concentrations of NaHS (5-10 mM) and maintained a steady level. The AOX1 gene transcript level also showed a similar change as the AP activity. Interestingly, different NaHS concentrations seemed to have different effects on the expression of AOX1a, AOX1b, and AOX1c. The induction of AOX expression by low concentrations of NaHS was inferred through a reactive oxygen species (ROS)-independent pathway. At the same time, rice cells grown in culture were very sensitive to H2S, different H2S concentrations induced an increase in the cell viability. These results indicate that the H2S-induced AOX induction might play a role in inhibiting the ROS production and have an influence on cell viability.
20739304	OsPti1a, a functional ortholog of tomato SlPti1, negatively regulates both basal resistance and R-gene-mediated resistance in rice. To investigate the molecular function of OsPti1a in defense responses, we searched for components interacting with OsPti1a using a yeast two-hybrid system. One of the interacting proteins is a Ser/Thr kinase that directly phosphorylates OsPti1a in vitro. This protein belongs to the AGC kinase family and is highly similar to AtOxi1, which is induced in response to a wide range of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-generating stimuli in Arabidopsis. Thus, it was designated OsOxi1. OsOxi1 was transiently phosphorylated in response to ROS and chitin elicitor. Both OsOxi1-overexpressing transgenic lines and the ospti1a mutant were highly sensitive to ROS treatment, indicating that OsOxi1 and OsPti1a are involved in ROS-mediated signaling in opposing ways. OsOxi1 is specifically expressed at infection sites where ROS are produced after inoculation with a blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae. Overexpression of OsOxi1 enhanced basal resistance to the blast fungus, indicating that OsOxi1 positively regulates disease resistance. OsOxi1 phosphorylates Thr-233 of OsPti1a and a point mutation of Thr-233 enhanced disease susceptibility to a bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), suggesting that the phosphorylation of OsPti1a by OsOxi1 is essential for basal resistance to Xoo. Taken together, our data suggest that OsOxi1 positively regulates defense responses through the phosphorylation of OsPti1a, causing the release from an OsPti1a-dependent inhibition of the responses.
20739452	Our objective was to identify and describe the major dietary patterns in the Mexican adult population and their association with being overweight or obese. Dietary intake was evaluated by a FFQ that was completed by 15,890 Mexican adults who participated in the National Health and Nutrition Survey 2006. Dietary patterns were generated by cluster analysis based on the percent contribution to total energy intake from 30 food groups. We identified 3 major dietary patterns: refined foods and sweets (RS), traditional (T), and diverse (D). The T pattern was characterized by low dietary diversity, with maize and maize foods accounting for ~47% of energy intake. This pattern had the lowest contribution of most food groups, with the exception of beans (~4.0%). The RS pattern had the highest contribution of alcohol (9.4%), soft drinks (9.4%), white bread (7.7%), fast food, sweets, and snacks. The D pattern had the lowest contribution of maize (15.5%) and the highest contribution of whole-fat dairy (8.0%), rice and pasta, meat, poultry, eggs, saturated fat, fruits, and vegetables. After adjusting for age, gender, physical activity, socioeconomic status, area, and region, the RS and D dietary patterns were associated with 14 and 17% increased risk of being overweight (P < 0.01) and 20% increased risk of being obese, respectively, compared with the T dietary pattern (P < 0.001). These findings support an association of dietary patterns with being overweight or obese in a nationally representative sample of Mexican adults.
20740373	This work aims to evaluate the fermentability of cellulosic hydrolysates obtained by enzymatic saccharification of sugarcane bagasse pretreated by hydrothermal processing using Candida guilliermondii FTI 20037 yeast. The inoculum was obtained from yeast culture in a medium containing glucose as a carbon source supplemented with rice bran extract, CaCl(2)·2H(2)O and (NH(4))(2)SO(4) in 50 mL Erlenmeyer flasks, containing 20 mL of medium, initial 5.5 pH under agitation of an orbital shaker (200 rpm) at 30°C for 24 h. The cellulosic hydrolysates, prior to being used as a fermentation medium, were autoclaved for 15 min at 0.5 atm and supplemented with the same nutrients employed for the inoculum, except the glucose, using the same conditions for the inoculum, but with a period of 48 h. Preliminary results showed the highest consumption of glucose (97%) for all the hydrolysates, at 28 h of fermentation. The highest concentration of ethanol (20.5 g/L) was found in the procedure of sugarcane bagasse pretreated by hydrothermal processing (195°C/10 min in 20 L reactor) and delignificated with NaOH 1.0% (w/v), 100°C, 1 h in 500 mL stainless steel ampoules immersed in an oil bath.
20764162
20764688
20765682
2077472	The allergy management of bronchial asthma consists of avoidance of exposure to allergens either inhalant, or ingestant, hyposensitization in cases where complete avoidance is impossible and drug therapy is needed. The diet initiated in allergic children is principally a diagnostic tool. There are two important diet regimens. First, "The Elimination Diet", indicated in patients to exclude major allergenic foods such as fruit, milk, egg, fish, and peanut. Secondly, "The Minimal Diet" (Modified Rowe's Diet), consisting of several foods "allowed" such as water, rice, coconut, beef, soy-cake, soy sauce, spinach, carrot, garlic and onion, salt and sugar, while other foods are prohibited. To obtain clear improvement of symptoms, the diet must be continued for 3 weeks. If improvement occurs, a challenge can be performed. All previously excluded foods can be reinstituted one at a time in a sufficient amount, every day for one week. If no symptoms appear, the food can be considered as non allergenic to the patient. If symptoms reappear, the food should be suspected as causing the allergy. For diagnosis, three challenges are required. Pharmacologic therapy is initiated with ephedrine and chlortrimeton as needed. Aminophylline and beta 2 agonist may be given as a substitute if the former drugs fail to relieve the symptoms. Intravenous aminophylline and corticosteroid are used especially in "status asthmaticus".
207913	Mosquito collections by using light traps have been carried out at 10 to 11 stations in Kyoto City area at intervals of about 10 days every year. Mean percent indexes (MPI), being calculated from the data of mosquito collections, were used for comparison of the annual abundance of mosquitoes. It is no doubt that Culex tritaeniorhynchus summorosus has decreased recently and this decrease is correlated with the reduction of human patients of Japanese encephalitis. Wide use of two herbicides, CNP and nitrofen, for rice plant cultivation, may probably be one of the reasons for the decrease of the mosquitoes.
2079332	High resolution thermal denaturation (HRTD) profiles of the DNAs of six related millets, oat and rice showed several maxima and shoulders skewed towards the GC-rich side. Linear regression and correlation analyses exhibited no correlation between the repetitive DNA content/nuclear DNA content and the number of peaks, while there existed a very good correlation between delta T and repetitive DNA content/nuclear DNA content indicating that increase in repetitive DNA content has resulted in a greater sequence heterogeneity in these DNAs. In addition, specific melting characteristics of each of the eight plant DNAs were identified, which showed species specificity.
20796076	Milk fever in dairy cows can be prevented by activating Ca homeostasis before calving. Homeostatic adaptation can be achieved by reducing dietary Ca availability. Formaldehyde-treated rice bran was studied to supply rumen protected phytic acid to reduce Ca availability. Twelve multiparous dry cows were used in a 3×3 Latin square change-over design with 5-day periods to test three dietary treatments. Diets consisted of a forage mix (maize silage, grass silage and hay), being 77% of ration dry matter, supplemented with three concentrates: Control (no formaldehyde-treated rice bran), T1 (100% formaldehyde-treated rice bran) and T2 (99.5% formaldehyde-treated rice bran with 0.6% Ca carbonate, to equal Ca content of Control). Dietary treatments did not affect urine pH (8.14, 8.13 and 8.11 for Control, T1 and T2 respectively) or dry matter intake (13.9, 13.7 and 13.8 kg for Control, T1 and T2 respectively). Including formaldehyde-treated rice bran in the diet resulted in lower urinary Ca/creatinine ratio (0.970, 0.457 and 0.618 for Control, T1 and T2 respectively). A sudden increase of urinary Ca excretion took place after withdrawal of T1 and T2 at introduction of Control, peaking on the first day and coming back down progressively in the second and third days. Peak was greatest after T1 and was not observed in transitions between rice bran treatments. This is understood as indirect evidence of activation of intestinal Ca absorption during formaldehyde-treated rice bran feeding, because renal adaptations to changes in blood Ca clearance are immediate and intestinal adaptations delay 2 days. It was concluded that including formaldehyde-treated rice bran in rations before calving may represent a dietary strategy to prevent milk fever without reducing dry matter intake.
20796082	Adapting Ca homeostasis of dairy cows before calving can prevent milk fever. Rice bran, treated with formaldehyde to prevent ruminal degradation of phytic acid, was fed to heifers to study its effect on Ca homeostasis. For 3 weeks 18 heifers were supplemented 3 kg of two feeds: placebo (PF) and rice bran (RBF), defining three treatments: control (CRT), low dose (LD) and high dose (HD). In weeks 1 and 3, all animals received 3 kg of PF and in week 2: CRT received 3 kg of PF, LD received 1.5 kg of PF and 1.5 kg of RBF and HD received 3 kg of RBF. Treatments did not affect dry matter intake (DMI). Feed intakes and growth rates indicated that all heifers had nutritional requirements that exceeded their Ca intakes. Serum Ca, urinary Ca, calcitriol or hydroxyproline remained unaffected. Urinary Ca was consistently low indicating high renal Ca reabsorption, which is indicative of insufficient Ca supply. Rice bran feed influenced P, Mg and Zn intakes and serum and urine presence of these minerals. Most heifers already presented an upregulated Ca metabolism, being inadequate to study adaptive changes in Ca homeostasis of multiparous dry cows. This metabolic difference can be explanatory to the very low susceptibility of heifers to milk fever, further supporting the induction of homeostatic adaptation before calving to prevent milk fever. Rice bran feed did not reduce DMI, and was not detrimental to P, Mg or Zn status.
20796245	Chloroplast DNA sequence data are a versatile tool for plant identification or barcoding and establishing genetic relationships among plant species. Different chloroplast loci have been utilized for use at close and distant evolutionary distances in plants, and no single locus has been identified that can distinguish between all plant species. Advances in DNA sequencing technology are providing new cost-effective options for genome comparisons on a much larger scale. Universal PCR amplification of chloroplast sequences or isolation of pure chloroplast fractions, however, are non-trivial. We now propose the analysis of chloroplast genome sequences from massively parallel sequencing (MPS) of total DNA as a simple and cost-effective option for plant barcoding, and analysis of plant relationships to guide gene discovery for biotechnology. We present chloroplast genome sequences of five grass species derived from MPS of total DNA. These data accurately established the phylogenetic relationships between the species, correcting an apparent error in the published rice sequence. The chloroplast genome may be the elusive single-locus DNA barcode for plants.
20796265	Malaria is a serious health issue in Indonesia. Mosquito control is one aspect of an integrated malaria management programme. To focus resources on priority areas, information is needed about the vectors and their habitats. This research aimed to identify the relationship between anopheline mosquitoes and topography in West Timor and Java. Study areas were selected in three topographic types in West Timor and Java. These were: coastal plain, hilly (rice field) and highland. Adult mosquitoes were captured landing on humans identified to species level and counted. Eleven species were recorded, four of which were significant for malaria transmission: Anopheles aconitus, Anopheles barbirostris, Anopheles subpictus and Anopheles sundaicus. Each species occupied different topographies, but only five were significantly associated: Anopheles annularis, Anopheles vagus and Anopheles subpictus (Java only) with hilly rice fields; Anopheles barbirostris, Anopheles maculatus and Anopheles subpictus (West Timor only) with coastal areas. Information on significant malaria vectors associated with specific topography is useful for planning the mosquito control aspect of malaria management.
20796287	It is widely recognized that interspecific hybridization may induce "genome shock", and lead to genetic and epigenetic instabilities in the resultant hybrids and/or backcrossed introgressants. A prominent component involved in the genome shock is reactivation of cryptic transposable elements (TEs) in the hybrid genome, which is often associated with alteration in the elements' epigenetic modifications like cytosine DNA methylation. We have previously reported that introgressants derived from hybridization between Oryza sativa (rice) and Zizania latifolia manifested substantial methylation re-patterning and rampant mobilization of two TEs, a copia retrotransposon Tos17 and a MITE mPing. It was not known however whether other types of TEs had also been transpositionally reactivated in these introgressants, their relevance to alteration in cytosine methylation, and their impact on expression of adjacent cellular genes. We document in this study that the Dart TE family was transpositionally reactivated followed by stabilization in all three studied introgressants (RZ1, RZ2 and RZ35) derived from introgressive hybridization between rice (cv. Matsumae) and Z. latifolia, while the TEs remained quiescent in the recipient rice genome. Transposon-display (TD) and sequencing verified the element's mobility and mapped the excisions and re-insertions to the rice chromosomes. Methylation-sensitive Southern blotting showed that the Dart TEs were heavily methylated along their entire length, and moderate alteration in cytosine methylation patterns occurred in the introgressants relative to their rice parental line. Real-time qRT-PCR quantification on the relative transcript abundance of six single-copy genes flanking the newly excised or inserted Dart-related TE copies indicated that whereas marked difference in the expression of all four genes in both tissues (leaf and root) were detected between the introgressants and their rice parental line under both normal and various stress conditions, the difference showed little association with the presence or absence of the newly mobilized Dart-related TEs. Introgressive hybridization has induced transpositional reactivation of the otherwise immobile Dart-related TEs in the parental rice line (cv. Matsumae), which was accompanied with a moderate alteration in the element's cytosine methylation. Significant difference in expression of the Dart-adjacent genes occurred between the introgressants and their rice parental line under both normal and various abiotic stress conditions, but the alteration in gene expression was not coupled with the TEs.
20797483	Red yeast (Monascus purpureus) is used as a traditional hypocholesterolemic dietary food component in Asia due to its bioactive component, lovastatin. Recently, new evidence suggesting that the statins in red yeast enhance bone formation has been reported, but more research is still needed in order to support these claims of osteogenic effects. Therefore, in this study, we hypothesized that red yeast rice (in which red yeast is fermented) can improve osteogenic function through osteoblast cell proliferation and differentiation. We studied the effect of methanol extract of red yeast rice powder (RYRP) on osteoblast proliferation and differentiation by measuring mitochondrial enzyme activity and bone marker alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, respectively. Osteoblast-like MC3T3-E1 cells were cultured in various concentrations of RYRP methanol extract (0.001-1 mg/mL) during the osteoblast differentiation period (1, 5, 10, and 15 days). As measured by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-y]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay, RYRP extracts stimulated cell proliferation during a 24-hour period, compared to cooked white rice powder extract. The most pronounced effect was observed at the concentration range between 0.075 and 0.1 mg/mL. This RYRP stimulatory effect for cell proliferation was observed during the whole osteogenic period. Cellular (synthesized) ALP activity was increased at a RYRP extract concentration of 0.075 mg/mL during 15 days of culture, but the medium (secreted) ALP activity did not show any significant change. This cellular ALP activity stimulation by RYRP extract was confirmed by the staining of ALP activity on cell matrix layers for matrix calcification. The results imply that RYRP extract may increase osteogenic effect by stimulating cell proliferation and ALP activity in osteoblastic cells.
20797847	The objective of this study was to investigate the process of generating hydrogen rich syngas through thermo chemical fluidized bed gasification of biomass. The experiments were performed in a laboratory scale externally heated biomass gasifier. Rice husk had been taken as a representative biomass and, steam had been used as the fluidizing and gasifying media. A thermodynamic equilibrium model was used to predict the gasification process. The work included the parametric study of process parameters such as reactor temperature and steam biomass ratio which generally influence the percentage of hydrogen content in the product gas. Steam had been used here to generate nitrogen free product gas and also to increase the hydrogen concentration in syngas with a medium range heating value of around 12 MJ/Nm3.
20800456	A biomass agricultural waste material, rice husk (RH) was used for preparation of activated carbon by chemical activation using phosphoric acid. The effect of various factors, e.g. time, pH, initial concentration and temperature of carbon on the adsorption capacity of lanthanum and erbium was quantitatively determined. It was found that the monolayer capacity is 175.4 mg g(-1) for La(III) and 250 mg g(-1) for Er(III). The calculated activation energy of La(III) adsorption on the activated carbon derived from rice husk was equal to 5.84 kJ/mol while it was 3.6 kJ/mol for Er(III), which confirm that the reaction is mainly particle-diffusion-controlled. The kinetics of sorption was described by a model of a pseudo-second-order. External diffusion and intra-particular diffusion were examined. The experimental data show that the external diffusion and intra-particular diffusion are significant in the determination of the sorption rate. Therefore, the developed sorbent is considered as a better replacement technology for removal of La(III) and Er(III) ions from aqueous solution due to its low-cost and good efficiency, fast kinetics, as well as easy to handle and thus no or small amount of secondary sludge is obtained in this application.
20800476	The combustion of biomass of various nitrogen contents and its NO emission were investigated experimentally in this study. All the experiments were conducted in an I.D. 0.45 m pilot-scale vortexing fluidized bed combustor (VFBC). Rice husk, corn, and soybean were used as feeding materials. Urea was added into the feeding materials for the purpose of adjusting nitrogen content. The effects of various operating parameters on NO emission, such as bed temperature, excess air ratio, and flow rate of secondary air, were investigated. The effects of nitrogen content of fuels on NO emissions were also investigated by using the mixtures of rice husk/soybean, rice husk/urea, corn/soybean, and corn/urea in various weight ratios. The NO concentrations at various positions in the combustor were sampled and recorded. The experimental results show that most nitric oxide is formed at just above the bed surface. Temperature and excess air ratio are the major operating parameters for NO emission. For biomass with high nitrogen content, NO emission decreases with excess air, and increases with bed temperature. Compared with char-N, volatile-N is the more dominant reactant source for NO emission.
20800726	A new and convenient synthesis of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), a potent flavor compound in rice, and its ring-deuterated analog, 2-acetyl-1-d(2)-pyrroline (2AP-d(2)), was reported. A stable isotope dilution assay (SIDA), involving headspace solid-phase microextraction (HS-SPME) combined with gas chromatography-positive chemical ionization-ion trap-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-PCI-IT-MS-MS), was developed for 2AP quantification. A divinylbenzene/carboxen/polydimethylsiloxane (DVB/CAR/PDMS) fiber was used for HS-SPME procedure and parameters affecting analytes recovery, such as extraction time and temperature, pH and salt, were studied. The repeatability of the method (n=10) expressed as relative standard deviation (RSD) was 11.6%. A good linearity was observed from 5.9 to 779 ng of 2AP (r(2)=0.9989). Limits of detection (LOD) and quantification (LOQ) for 2AP were 0.1 and 0.4 ng g(-1) of rice, respectively. The recovery of spiked 2AP from rice matrix was almost complete. The developed method was applied to the quantification of 2AP in aerial parts and grains of scented and non-scented rice cultivars.
20801181	The Cry1C protein produced in Escherichia coli was used for in vitro evaluation and animal studies to support the safety assessment of GM food or feed products containing the Cry1C protein. The Cry1C protein does not have any sequence homology with known allergens or toxins. Although the Cry1C protein was heat stable it was rapidly degraded in vitro with simulated gastric or intestinal fluids. It did not cause adverse effects in mice as administered by gavage at a high level dosage of 5 g (Cry1C protein)/kg body weight. The mutagenicity of this protein was evaluated according to the national standards of People's Republic of China (PR China) for a new food resource. In mutagenic tests, the Cry1C protein caused<4 micronucleated cells per 1000 cells, <16 sperm abnormalities per 1000 cells and was not associated with any increased mutations in the Ames test. Taken together, these data indicate that the Cry1C protein is not a potential allergen or toxin.
20801480	Propanil (3,4-dichloropropionanilide) is a widely used herbicide, applied worldwide in rice paddies. Propanil is primarily transformed in nature to 3,4-dichloroaniline (DCA), which is more slowly biodegradable. Both compounds have adverse health and ecotoxicity effects. This work investigated the microbial ecology and kinetics of propanil-degrading enrichments obtained from soil in a sequencing batch reactor (SBR) operated with different feeding strategies, aiming at the enhanced biological removal of propanil and DCA from contaminated waters. During SBR operation with a dump feeding strategy, a high propanil concentration led to DCA accumulation, which was only fully degraded after 5 days, likely due to DCA inhibition. For this reason, the operational mode was changed to fed-batch operation with lower initial propanil concentrations, which resulted in faster propanil and DCA biodegradation. Thus a fed-batch operation seems more appropriate for the acclimatisation of an effective propanil- and DCA-degrading population. The changes in performance were accompanied by a shift in the microbial population structure, as determined by DGGE of the 16S rRNA gene, particularly after a feed of DCA as the sole carbon source. Isolates obtained from the acclimatised population included members of the genera Enterococcus and Rhodococcus, as well as Brevundimonas, which displayed >90% propanil biodegradation efficiency.
20802018	Head blight, caused by Gibberella zeae, is a significant disease among cereal crops, including wheat, barley, and rice, due to contamination of grain with mycotoxins. G. zeae is spread by ascospores forcibly discharged from sexual fruiting bodies forming on crop residues. In this study, we characterized a novel gene, ROA, which is required for normal sexual development. Deletion of ROA (Δroa) resulted in an abnormal size and shape of asci and ascospores but did not affect vegetative growth. The Δroa mutation triggered round ascospores and insufficient cell division after spore delimitation. The asci of the Δroa strain discharged fewer ascospores from the perithecia but achieved a greater dispersal distance than those of the wild-type strain. Turgor pressure within the asci was calculated through the analysis of osmolytes in the epiplasmic fluid. Deletion of the ROA gene appeared to increase turgor pressure in the mutant asci. The higher turgor pressure of the Δroa mutant asci and the mutant spore shape contributed to the longer distance dispersal. When the Δroa mutant was outcrossed with a Δmat1-2 mutant, a strain that contains a green fluorescence protein (GFP) marker in place of the MAT1-2 gene, unusual phenotypic segregation occurred. The ratio of GFP to non-GFP segregation was 1:1; however, all eight spores had the same shape. Taken together, the results of this study suggest that ROA plays multiple roles in maintaining the proper morphology and discharge of ascospores in G. zeae.
20802789	The synthesis of nanoparticles silica oxide from rice husk, sugar cane bagasse and coffee husk, by employing vermicompost with annelids (Eisenia foetida) is reported. The product (humus) is calcinated and extracted to recover the crystalline nanoparticles. X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and dynamic light scattering (DLS) show that the biotransformation allows creating specific crystalline phases, since equivalent particles synthesized without biotransformation are bigger and with different crystalline structure.
20803236	Rice straw is produced as a by-product from rice cultivation, which is composed largely of lignocellulosic materials amenable to general biodegradation. Lignocellulolytic actinobacteria can be used as a potential agent for rapid composting of bulky rice straw. Twenty-five actinobacteria isolates were isolated from various in situ and in vitro rice straw compost sources. Isolates A2, A4, A7, A9 and A24 were selected through enzymatic degradation of starch, cellulose and lignin followed by the screening for their adaptability on rice straw powder amended media. The best adapted isolate (A7) was identified as Micromonospora carbonacea. It was able to degrade cellulose, hemicelluloses and carbon significantly (P ≤ 0.05) over the control. C/N ratio was reduced to 18.1 from an initial value of 29.3 in 6 weeks of composting thus having the potential to be used in large scale composting of rice straw.
20803423	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the genetic polymorphisms of the uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) and beta 3 adrenergic receptor (beta3-AR) were associated with differences in weight loss and lipid profiles in obese premenopausal women exposed to low-calorie meal replacements over a period of six weeks. Forty women between the ages of 20 and 35 were randomly divided into two groups, each of which consumed one of two low-calorie meal replacements containing either white rice or mixed rice. Although body weight, body mass index (BMI), blood glucose concentration, triglycerides, total cholesterol (TC), and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) were not significantly different by the UCP1 genotype in the white rice group, there were significant differences in body weight (p = 0.041), BMI (p = 0.027), and blood glucose concentration (p = 0.047) between carriers and non-carriers of the G allele in the mixed rice group after the six-week meal replacement intervention. The beta3-AR polymorphism showed no apparent affect on these parameters. Dietary fiber affects weight gain since it is closely related with absorption of nutrients. As a result, the AA type UCP1 genotype produced significant weight loss in the mixed rice group, but not in the white rice group.
20803897	Results of the 5-years cycle (2004-2008) monitoring investigations on food contamination with elements noxious to human health, involving testing of mineral waters and soft drinks (226 samples), fruits (467 samples), rice (234 samples), soybeans (236 samples), nuts and peanuts (237 samples), fish and seafood (237 samples) are discussed. The parties involved in testing were: laboratories of State Sanitary Inspection and the national reference laboratory of the Department of Food and Consumer Articles Research of National Institute of Public Health - National Institute of Hygiene. The reported metals contents did not give rise to health concerns, remaining generally below the levels set forth in food legislation and being comparable with contamination levels reported in other European countries; and for cadmium--often lower. Health hazard assessment was performed taking into account the mean contamination levels obtained and average domestic consumption of these food products groups in Poland. The highest intake expressed as the percentage of provisional tolerable weekly intake (PTWI) was obtained for mercury in fish, which has reached mean 3.2% PTWI. Controlled fish consumption recommendations should be adhered to by prospective mothers, pregnant women, breast-feeding women and young children. Lead and arsenic intake with mineral waters and soft drinks comprises approx. 15% of total intake of these elements with food.
20803900	Gluten content of 22 special dietary use gluten-free products and 19 naturally gluten-free products was analysed by ELISA method. Gluten content in dietetic foods ranged from 5.19 to 57.16 mg/kg. Within the group of foods "gluten-free" by nature--gluten was not detected in rice and buckwheat groats samples, however in rice flakes and pearl millet gluten content ranged from 7.05 mg/kg- 27.51 mg/kg. Particularly high contamination with gluten (> 100 mg/kg) was detected in oat products what puts in doubt their usefulness in gluten-free diet.
20805073	Extrusion cooking and amylase addition are two processing methods used for the preparation of high energy dense (ED) gruels of suitable consistency. A quantitative study of energy and nutrient intakes of 67 infants aged 6 to 10 months in rural areas in Vietnam was carried out to compare the effects of these processes used alone or in combination. Twice a day, for a period of four days each, infants successively ate four gruels prepared from different flours based on a blend of rice, sesame and soybean: an instant flour obtained by extrusion cooking (gruel A), a ready-to-cook flour obtained by extrusion cooking plus alpha-amylase addition (gruel B), a flour produced by milling crude rice, sesame and roasted soybean plus alpha-amylase addition (gruel C) and without amylase (control gruel D). Gruels A, B and C had a high ED of respectively 94, 122 and 124 kcal/100 g while the control gruel D had a low ED (59 kcal/100 g). The intakes of the four gruels were inversely linked to their ED. However, despite the fact that gruels B and C had similar ED, larger intakes were obtained with gruel B, which was attributed to better acceptability. The average energy intakes of high ED gruels A, B and C, respectively 112, 134 and 117 kcal/meal, were significantly higher than that of gruel D (81 kcal/meal). Of the three processing methods, the one combining extrusion cooking and amylase addition gave the best results in terms of gruel acceptability and energy intake.
20805083	Despite carbohydrate hypothesis related to breast cancer development, the inter-relationships of carbohydrate measures with risk of breast cancer are unclear. We evaluated the association between the risk of breast cancer and total carbohydrate intake, glycemic load, and glycemic index, and types of rice in a hospital-based case-control study. Cases were 362 women aged 30-65 years old who were histologically confirmed to have breast cancer. Controls visiting the same hospital were matched to cases according to their age (+/-2 years) and menopausal status. Food intake was estimated by a quantitative food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) with 121 items. Conditional and unconditional logistic regression analysis was used to obtain the odds ratios (ORs) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals. There were no associations between risk of breast cancer and carbohydrate intake and glycemic load. A positive association with white rice (OR=1.19 per 100g/d increment, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.01-1.40), no association with mixed white rice (OR=0.95 per 100g/d increment, 95% CI=0.80-1.13), and an inverse association with mixed brown rice (OR=0.76 per 100g/d increment of mixed brown rice, 95% CI=0.61-0.95) was found. Additional analysis showed a positive association for white rice and an inverse association f mixed brown rice with breast cancer risk among overweight, postmenopausal women. These results do not support an association between breast cancer and diets high in carbohydrate, glycemic index, or glycemic load. However, a higher consumption of mixed brown rice may be associated with a decreased risk of breast cancer, especially in overweight, postmenopausal women.
20805329	In rice (Oryza sativa), trans-acting small interfering RNA (ta-siRNA) is essential for shoot development, including shoot apical meristem (SAM) formation and leaf morphogenesis. The rice wavy leaf1 (waf1) mutant has been identified as an embryonic mutant resembling shoot organization1 (sho1) and sho2, homologs of a loss-of-function mutant of DICER-LIKE4 and a hypomorphic mutant of ARGONAUTE7, respectively, which both act in the ta-siRNA production pathway. About half of the waf1 mutants showed seedling lethality due to defects in SAM maintenance, but the rest survived to the reproductive phase and exhibited pleiotropic phenotypes in leaf morphology and floral development. Map-based cloning of WAF1 revealed that it encodes an RNA methyltransferase, a homolog of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) HUA ENHANCER1. The reduced accumulation of small RNAs in waf1 indicated that the stability of the small RNA was decreased. Despite the greatly reduced level of microRNAs and ta-siRNA, microarray and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction experiments revealed that the expression levels of their target genes were not always enhanced. A double mutant between sho and waf1 showed an enhanced SAM defect, suggesting that the amount and/or quality of ta-siRNA is crucial for SAM maintenance. Our results indicate that stabilization of small RNAs by WAF1 is indispensable for rice development, especially for SAM maintenance and leaf morphogenesis governed by the ta-siRNA pathway. In addition, the inconsistent relationship between the amount of small RNAs and the level of the target mRNA in waf1 suggest that there is a complex regulatory mechanism that modifies the effects of microRNA/ta-siRNA on the expression of the target gene.
20806382	Although the biasing of R(2)* estimates by assuming magnitude MR data to be normally distributed has been described, the effect on changes in R(2)* (DeltaR(2)*), such as induced by a paramagnetic contrast agent, has not been reported. In this study, two versions of a novel Bayesian maximum a posteriori approach for estimating DeltaR(2)* are described and evaluated: one that assumes normally distributed data and the other, Rice-distributed data. The approach enables the robust, voxelwise determination of the uncertainty in DeltaR(2)* estimates and provides a useful statistical framework for quantifying the probability that a pixel has been significantly enhanced. This technique was evaluated in vivo, using ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide particles in orthotopic murine prostate tumors. It is shown that assuming magnitude data to be normally distributed causes DeltaR(2)* to be underestimated when signal-to-noise ratio is modest. However, the biasing effect is less than is found in R(2)* estimates, implying that the simplifying assumption of normally distributed noise is more justifiable when evaluating DeltaR(2)* compared with when evaluating precontrast R(2)* values.
20806848	International students provide a variety of benefits to higher education institutions within the United States (J. J. Lee, 2007; J. J. Lee & C. Rice, 2007). Despite these benefits, many international students experience prejudice and discrimination by American students. The purpose of the present study was to examine several potential predictors of prejudice against international students: perceptions of international students as symbolic and realistic threats, right-wing authoritarianism, and social dominance orientation. A simultaneous regression analysis that the authors based on 188 students at a Southwestern university revealed that perceptions of symbolic and realistic threats and social dominance orientation were each positive and significant predictors of prejudice. Mediation analyses suggested that the effects of right-wing authoritarianism on prejudice is fully mediated through perceived symbolic threat and partially mediated by realistic threat.
20807214	Rice blast is one of the most widespread and destructive plant diseases worldwide. Breeders have used disease resistance (R) genes that mediate fungal race-specific 'gene-for-gene' resistance to manage rice blast, but the resistance is prone to breakdown due to high pathogenic variability of blast fungus. Panicle blast 1 (Pb1) is a blast-resistance gene derived from the indica cultivar 'Modan'. Pb1-mediated resistance, which is characterized by durability of resistance and adult/panicle blast resistance, has been introduced into elite varieties for commercial cultivation. We isolated the Pb1 gene by map-based cloning. It encoded a coiled-coil-nucleotide-binding-site-leucine-rich repeat (CC-NBS-LRR) protein. The Pb1 protein sequence differed from previously reported R-proteins, particularly in the NBS domain, in which the P-loop was apparently absent and some other motifs were degenerated. Pb1 was located within one of tandemly repeated 60-kb units, which presumably arose through local genome duplication. Pb1 transcript levels increased during the development of Pb1+ cultivars; this expression pattern accounts for their adult/panicle resistance. Promoter:GUS analysis indicated that genome duplication played a crucial role in the generation of Pb1 by placing a promoter sequence upstream of its coding sequence, thereby conferring a Pb1-characteristic expression pattern to a transcriptionally inactive 'sleeping' resistance gene. We discuss possible determinants for the durability of Pb1-mediated blast resistance.
20807373	The R2R3-type OsMyb4 transcription factor of rice has been shown to play a role in the regulation of osmotic adjustment in heterologous overexpression studies. However, the exact composition and organization of its underlying transcriptional network has not been established to be a robust tool for stress tolerance enhancement by regulon engineering. OsMyb4 network was dissected based on commonalities between the global chilling stress transcriptome and the transcriptome configured by OsMyb4 overexpression. OsMyb4 controls a hierarchical network comprised of several regulatory sub-clusters associated with cellular defense and rescue, metabolism and development. It regulates target genes either directly or indirectly through intermediary MYB, ERF, bZIP, NAC, ARF and CCAAT-HAP transcription factors. Regulatory sub-clusters have different combinations of MYB-like, GCC-box-like, ERD1-box-like, ABRE-like, G-box-like, as1/ocs/TGA-like, AuxRE-like, gibberellic acid response element (GARE)-like and JAre-like cis-elements. Cold-dependent network activity enhanced cellular antioxidant capacity through radical scavenging mechanisms and increased activities of phenylpropanoid and isoprenoid metabolic processes involving various abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), ethylene and reactive oxygen species (ROS) responsive genes. OsMyb4 network is independent of drought response element binding protein/C-repeat binding factor (DREB/CBF) and its sub-regulons operate with possible co-regulators including nuclear factor-Y. Because of its upstream position in the network hierarchy, OsMyb4 functions quantitatively and pleiotrophically. Supra-optimal expression causes misexpression of alternative targets with costly trade-offs to panicle development.
20807375	Rice OsEDR1 is a sequence ortholog of Arabidopsis EDR1. However, its molecular function is unknown. We show here that OsEDR1-suppressing/knockout (KO) plants, which developed spontaneous lesions on the leaves, have enhanced resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causing bacterial blight disease. This resistance was associated with increased accumulation of salicylic acid (SA) and jasmonic acid (JA), induced expression of SA- and JA-related genes and suppressed accumulation of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), the direct precursor of ethylene, and expression of ethylene-related genes. OsEDR1-KO plants also showed suppressed production of ethylene. Knockout of OsEDR1 suppressed the ACC synthase (ACS) gene family, which encodes the rate-limiting enzymes of ethylene biosynthesis by catalysing the formation of ACC. The lesion phenotype and enhanced bacterial resistance of the OsEDR1-KO plants was partly complemented by the treatment with ACC. ACC treatment was associated with decreased SA and JA biosynthesis in OsEDR1-KO plants. In contrast, aminoethoxyvinylglycine, the inhibitor of ethylene biosynthesis, promoted expression of SA and JA synthesis-related genes in OsEDR1-KO plants. These results suggest that ethylene is a negative signalling molecule in rice bacterial resistance. In the rice-Xoo interaction, OsEDR1 transcriptionally promotes the synthesis of ethylene that, in turn, suppresses SA- and JA-associated defence signalling.
20808518	Perception of stimuli and activation of a signaling cascade is an intrinsic characteristic feature of all living organisms. Till date, several signaling pathways have been elucidated that are involved in multiple facets of growth and development of an organism. Exposure to unfavorable stimuli or stress condition activates different signaling cascades in both plants and animal. Being sessile, plants cannot move away from an unfavorable condition, and hence activate the molecular machinery to cope up or adjust against that particular stress condition. In plants, role of calcium as second messenger has been studied in detail in both abiotic and biotic stress signaling. Several calcium sensor proteins such as calmodulin (CaM), calcium dependent protein kinases (CDPK) and calcinuerin B-like (CBL) were discovered to play a crucial role in abiotic stress signaling in plants. Unlike CDPK, CBL and CaM are calcium-binding proteins, which do not have any protein kinase enzyme activity and interact with a target protein kinase termed as CBL-interacting protein kinase (CIPK) and CaM kinases respectively. Genome sequence analysis of Arabidopsis and rice has led to the identification of multigene familes of these calcium signaling protein kinases. Individual and global gene expression analysis of these protein kinase family members has been analyzed under several developmental and different abiotic stress conditions. In this review, we are trying to overview and emphasize the expressional analysis of calcium signaling protein kinases under different abiotic stress and developmental stages, and linking the expression to possible function for these kinases.
20808523	Numerous genomic-based studies have provided insight to the physiological and evolutionary processes involved in developmental and environmental processes of model plants such as arabidopsis and rice. However, far fewer efforts have been attempted to use genomic resources to study physiological and evolutionary processes of weedy plants. Genomics-based tools such as extensive EST databases and microarrays have been developed for a limited number of weedy species, although application of information and resources developed for model plants and crops are possible and have been exploited. These tools have just begun to provide insights into the response of these weeds to herbivore and pathogen attack, survival of extreme environmental conditions, and interaction with crops. The potential of these tools to illuminate mechanisms controlling the traits that allow weeds to invade novel habitats, survive extreme environments, and that make weeds difficult to eradicate have potential for both improving crops and developing novel methods to control weeds.
20809548	Cyprinus carpio were exposed under field conditions to 20.87 microg l(-1) of commercial herbicide bispyribac-sodium (Nominee, SC), during 7, 21 and 72 days. Enzymatic parameters such as catalase (CAT), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities, as well as thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and protein carbonyl contents were studied in different tissues. After 7 days of exposure, GST activity decreased. At the same period, brain AChE activity increased, but a reduction of activity was observed in muscle tissue. Brain TBARS levels increased at 7 days. After 21 days of exposure liver CAT levels and muscle AChE activities decreased. In the same period, liver protein carbonyl and muscle TBARS increased. After 72 days of exposure in the field, AChE activity was reduced in both brain and muscle. Protein carbonyl contents in liver and brain TBARS levels increased. Muscle AChE activity, TBARS and protein carbonyl can be used as biomarkers of exposure to the herbicide bispyribac-sodium. This study demonstrates effects of exposure to bispyribac-sodium under rice field conditions on oxidative stress parameters in tissues of Cyprinus carpio.
20809928	Genetic improvement in drought tolerance in rice is the key to save water for sustainable agriculture. Drought tolerance is a complex trait and involves interplay of a vast array of genes. Several genotypes of rice have evolved features that impart tolerance to drought and other abiotic stresses. Comparative analysis of drought stress-responsive transcriptome between drought-tolerant (DT) landraces/genotypes and drought-sensitive modern rice cultivars will unravel novel genetic regulatory mechanisms involved in stress tolerance. Here, we report transcriptome analysis in a highly DT rice landrace, Nagina 22 (N22), versus a high-yielding but drought-susceptible rice variety IR64. Both genotypes exhibited a diverse global transcriptional response under normal and drought conditions. Gene ontology (GO) analysis suggested that drought tolerance of N22 was attributable to the enhanced expression of several enzyme-encoding genes. Drought susceptibility of IR64 was attributable to significant down-regulation of regulatory components that confer drought tolerance. Pathway analysis unravelled significant up-regulation of several components of carbon fixation, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and flavonoid biosynthesis and down-regulation of starch and sucrose metabolism in both the cultivars under drought. However, significant up-regulation of α-linolenic acid metabolic pathway observed in N22 under drought appears to be in good agreement with high drought tolerance of this genotype. Consensus cis-motif profiling of drought-induced co-expressed genes led to the identification of novel cis-motifs. Taken together, the results of the comparative transcriptome analysis led to the identification of specific genotype-dependent genes responsible for drought tolerance in the rice landrace N22.
20810345
20810742	The rate of photosynthesis in paddy rice often decreases at noon on sunny days because of water stress, even under submerged conditions. Maintenance of higher rates of photosynthesis during the day might improve both yield and dry matter production in paddy rice. A high-yielding indica variety, 'Habataki', maintains a high rate of leaf photosynthesis during the daytime because of the higher hydraulic conductance from roots to leaves than in the standard japonica variety 'Sasanishiki'. This research was conducted to characterize the trait responsible for the higher hydraulic conductance in 'Habataki' and identified a chromosome region for the high hydraulic conductance. Hydraulic conductance to passive water transport and to osmotic water transport was determined for plants under intense transpiration and for plants without transpiration, respectively. The varietal difference in hydraulic conductance was examined with respect to root surface area and hydraulic conductivity (hydraulic conductance per root surface area, L(p)). To identify the chromosome region responsible for higher hydraulic conductance, chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) derived from a cross between 'Sasanishiki' and 'Habataki' were used. The significantly higher hydraulic conductance resulted from the larger root surface area not from L(p) in 'Habataki'. A chromosome region associated with the elevated hydraulic conductance was detected between RM3916 and RM2431 on the long arm of chromosome 4. The CSSL, in which this region was substituted with the 'Habataki' chromosome segment in the 'Sasanishiki' background, had a larger root mass than 'Sasanishiki'. The trait for increasing plant hydraulic conductance and, therefore, maintaining the higher rate of leaf photosynthesis under the conditions of intense transpiration in 'Habataki' was identified, and it was estimated that there is at least one chromosome region for the trait located on chromosome 4.
20811811	Cell differentiation ultimately relies on the regulation of cell type-specific genes. For a root hair cell to undergo morphogenesis, diverse cellular processes including cell-wall loosening must occur in a root hair cell-specific manner. Previously, we identified and characterized root hairspecific cis-elements (RHE) from the genes encoding the cell wall-loosening protein EXPANSIN A (EXPA) which functions preferentially on dicot cell walls. This study reports two root hair-specific grass EXPB genes that contain RHEs. These genes are thought to encode proteins that function more efficiently on grass cell walls. The proximal promoter regions of two orthologous EXPB genes from rice (Oryza sativa; OsEXPB5) and barley (Hordeum vulgare; HvEXPB1) included RHE motifs. These promoters could direct root hair-specific expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in the roots of rice and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Promoter deletion analyses demonstrated that the RHE motifs are necessary for root hairspecific expression of these EXPB promoters. Phylogenetic analysis of EXP protein sequences indicated that grass EXPBs are the only orthologs to these root hair-specific EXPBs, separating dicot EXPBs to distal branches of the tree. These results suggest that RHE-containing root hair-specific EXPB genes have evolved for grass-specific cell wall modification during root hair morphogenesis.
20812375	To investigate natural aflatoxin occurrence, a total of 180 samples of different foods widely consumed in Tunisia were analysed by an in-house-validated high-performance liquid chromatography method including affinity column clean-up and post-column bromination techniques. The method used appeared to be rapid, selective and reproducible, and its performances were established. Detection limits were 0.05 ng g(-1) for aflatoxin B1 and 0.025 ng g(-1) for aflatoxins B2, G1 and G2. Aflatoxins were detected in all investigated commodities except rice, with an overall contamination frequency of 34.4% and concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 40.6 ng g(-1). Aflatoxin B1 was found in all contaminated samples. Sorghum, spices and nuts were most contaminated. This study has provided an effective analytical method for the reliable determination of aflatoxins in food samples. Over one-third of the samples investigated were contaminated with aflatoxins. Sorghum, spices and nuts were most contaminated, whereas rice showed no contamination.
20813578	Recent reports on responses to flooding, submergence, and low-oxygen stress have connected components in an essential regulatory network that underlies plasticity in growth and metabolism essential for the survival of distinct flooding regimes. Here, we discuss growth under severe oxygen-limited conditions (anaerobic growth) and less oxygen-deficient underwater conditions (ethylene-driven underwater growth). Low-oxygen stress causes an energy and carbohydrate crisis that must be controlled through regulated consumption of carbohydrates and energy reserves. In rice (Oryza sativa L.), low-oxygen stress, energy homeostasis and growth are connected by a calcineurin B-like interacting binding kinase (CIPK) in seeds germinated under water. In shoots, two opposing adaptive strategies to submergence, elongation (escape) and inhibition of elongation (quiescence), are controlled by related ethylene response factor (ERF) DNA binding proteins that act downstream of ethylene and modulate gibberellin-mediated shoot growth. Increased resolution of the flooding signaling network will require more precise investigation of the interactions between oxygen tension and cellular energy status in regulation of anaerobic metabolism and ethylene-driven growth, both essential to survival in variable flooding environments.
20813907	Fertilization in angiosperms depends on a complex cellular "courtship" between haploid pollen and diploid pistil. These pollen-pistil interactions are regulated by a diversity of molecules, many of which remain to be identified and characterized. Thus, it is unclear to what extent these processes are conserved among angiosperms, a fact confounded by limited sampling across taxa. Here, we report the analysis of pistil-expressed genes in Senecio squalidus (Asteraceae), a species from euasterid II, a major clade for which there are currently no data on pistil-expressed genes. Species from the Asteraceae characteristically have a "semidry stigma," intermediate between the "wet" and "dry" stigmas typical of the majority of angiosperms. Construction of pistil-enriched cDNA libraries for S. squalidus allowed us to address two hypotheses: (1) stigmas of S. squalidus will express genes common to wet and dry stigmas and genes specific to the semidry stigma characteristic of the Asteraceae; and (2) genes potentially essential for pistil function will be conserved between diverse angiosperm groups and therefore common to all currently available pistil transcriptome data sets, including S. squalidus. Our data support both these hypotheses. The S. squalidus pistil transcriptome contains novel genes and genes previously identified in pistils of species with dry stigmas and wet stigmas. Comparative analysis of the five pistil transcriptomes currently available (Oryza sativa, Crocus sativus, Arabidopsis thaliana, Nicotiana tabacum, and S. squalidus), representing four major angiosperm clades and the three stigma states, identified novel genes and conserved genes potentially regulating pollen-pistil interaction pathways common to monocots and eudicots.
20814792	Bispyribac sodium (BS), a pyrimidinyl carboxy herbicide, is a well-known inhibitor of acetolactate synthase (ALS) activity. ALS is an enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway for branched-chain amino acids. A mutant form of rice ALS (OsmALS [W548L/S627I]) that confers resistance to BS can be used as an in vitro selection marker gene for plant transformation. Since indica and indica-derived cultivars are thought to have lower BS sensitivity than japonica rice, the application of BS as a selectable reagent for genetic transformation in indica and indica-derived cultivars is more challenging than for japonica cultivars. In this study, callus and seedlings of eight different rice cultivars (five indica-derived cultivars, two indica cultivars and one japonica cultivar) were tested for BS sensitivity. Our study indicates for the first time that callus shows a higher sensitivity to BS than seedlings in indica and indica-derived cultivars. We used BS with OsmALS [W548L/S627I] to select transformed calli, and transgenic rice plants from indica and indica-derived cultivars were successfully obtained.
20814978	Rice is one of the most important food crops in the world and new varieties have been bred for specific purposes, such as the development of drought-resistance, or the enrichment of functional food factors. The localization and composition of metabolites in such new varieties must be investigated because all artificial interventions are expected to change the metabolites of rice. Imaging mass spectrometry using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI-IMS) is a suitable tool for investigating the localization and composition of metabolites; however, suitable methodologies for the MALDI-IMS analysis of rice have not yet been established. In this study, we optimized the methods for analyzing rice grains by MALDI-IMS using adhesive film and found the characteristic distribution of metabolites in rice. Lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) was localized in the endosperm. Phosphatidylcholine (PC), gamma-oryzanol and phytic acid were localized in the bran (germ and seed coat), and alpha-tocopherol was distributed in the germ (especially in the scutellum). In addition, MALDI-IMS revealed the LPC and PC composition of the rice samples. The LPC composition, LPC (1-acyl 16:0), LPC (1-acyl 18:2), LPC (1-acyl 18:1) and LPC (1-acyl 18:0), was 59.4 +/- 4.5%, 19.6 +/- 2.5%, 14.2 +/- 4.5% and 6.8 +/- 1.4%. The PC composition, PC (diacyl 16:0/18:2), PC (diacyl 16:0/18:1), PC (diacyl 18:1/18:3), PC (diacyl 18:1/18:2) and PC (diacyl 18:1/18:2), was 19.6 +/- 1.0%, 21.0 +/- 1.0%, 15.0 +/- 1.4%, 26.7 +/- 0.7% and 17.8 +/- 1.9%. This approach can be applied to the assessment of metabolites not only in rice, but also in other foods for which the preparation of sections is a challenging task.
20815260	Receptor-like kinase involves self-incompatibility, male sterility, stress responses, and disease resistance. To better understand the physiological function and biological characteristics of rice receptor-like kinase, we cloned five predicted epitope fragments of rice receptor-like kinase. The purified fusion protein was used as antigen to immunize rabbit to get specific polyclonal antibodies. Western blotting analysis shows that the five receptor-like kinases were expressed in rice leaves.
20816385	A residual heterozygous line (RHL) carrying a heterozygous segment between two SSR loci RM11 and RM134 on the rice chromosome 7 was selected from a set of recombinant inbred lines from the cross D50 (javanica)/HB277 (indica). The former parent produces much longer grains than the latter. Selfed progenies of this selection were analyzed genotypically (SSRs) and phenotypically (grain length). Grain length was discontinuously variable in the mapping populations, allowing for the placement of this QTL qGL7-2 within a approximately 4.8 cM interval defined by RM351 and RM234. A set of new markers within this region were developed, which narrowed the QTL to a 278 kb region defined by the markers Indel1 and RM21945. This region contains 49 predicted genes. The results also suggest that the novel allele for grain length will be used for the application of marker assisted selection for the improvement of grain length.
20816386	To identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling panicle architecture in japonica rice, a genetic map was constructed based on simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers and 254 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between cultivars Xiushui 79 and C Bao. Seven panicle traits were investigated under three environments. Single marker analysis indicated that a total of 27 SSR markers were highly associated with panicle traits in all the three environments. Percentage of phenotypic variation explained by single locus varied from 2% to 35%. Based on the mixed linear model, a total of 40 additive QTLs for seven panicle traits were detected by composite interval mapping, explaining 1.2%-35% of phenotypic variation. Among the 9 QTLs with more than 10% of explained phenotypic variation, two QTLs were for the number of primary branches per panicle (NPB), two for panicle length (PL), two for spikelet density (SD), one for the number of secondary branches per panicle (NSB), one for secondary branch distribution density (SBD), and one for the number of spikelets per panicle (NS), respectively. qPLSD-9-1 and qPLSD-9-2 were novel pleiotropic loci, showing effects on PL and SD simultaneously. qPLSD-9-1 explained 34.7% of the phenotypic variation for PL and 25.4% of the phenotypic variation for SD, respectively. qPLSD-9-2 explained 34.9% and 24.4% of the phenotypic variation for PL and SD, respectively. The C Bao alleles at the both QTLs showed positive effects on PL, and the Xiushui 79 alleles at the both QTLs showed positive effects on SD. Genetic variation of panicle traits are mainly attributed to additive effects. QTL x environment interactions were not significant for additive QTLs and additive x additive QTL pairs.
20816776	Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a serious complication confronted by patients with diabetes. Available data indicate that the development of DN is linked to hyperglycemia. Tocotrienol rich fraction (TRF) from palm oil (PO) and rice bran oil (RBO) has been shown to lower the blood glucose level in patients and preclinical animal models. This study was designed to investigate if TRF from PO and RBO could improve the renal function in DN by the virtue of their hypoglycemic and antioxidant activities. Male Wistar rats having an average body weight (bw) 250g were divided into four groups of six each .The first group served as diabetic control [injected with 55mg/kg bw of streptozotocin (STZ), intraperitoneally], while the second and third group received PO-TRF and RBO-TRF, respectively, by gavage at a dose of 200mg/kg bw/day, over a period of 8 weeks post-induction of diabetes. The fourth group comprised of age-matched male Wistar rats that received single intraperitoneal injection of normal saline only and served as control. After 8 weeks of STZ injection and TRF treatment, 24h urine was collected and animals were sacrificed. Fasting blood glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, biochemical markers of renal function and oxidative stress were evaluated in serum, urine and kidney tissue. The results show that treatment with PO-TRF as well as RBO-TRF significantly improved the glycemic status and renal function in type 1 diabetic rats but PO-TRF afforded greater efficiency at similar dose as compared to RBO-TRF. In conclusion, PO-TRF was found to be more effective hypoglycemic and nephroprotective agent in DN than RBO-TRF.
20817312	Model systems have played a crucial role for understanding biological processes at genetic, molecular and systems levels. Arabidopsis thaliana is one of the best studied model species for higher plants. Large genomic resources and mutant collections made Arabidopsis an excellent source for functional and comparative genomics. Rice and Brachypodium have a great potential to become model systems for grasses. Given the agronomic importance of grass crops, it is an attractive strategy to apply knowledge from Arabidopsis to grasses. Despite many efforts successful reports are sparse. Knowledge transfer should generally work best between orthologous genes that share functionality and a common ancestor. In higher plants, however, recent genome projects revealed an active and rapid evolution of genome structure, which challenges the concept of one-to-one orthologous mates between two species. In this study, we estimated on the example of protein families that are involved in redox related processes, the impact of gene expansions on the success rate for a knowledge transfer from Arabidopsis to the grass species rice, sorghum and Brachypodium. The sparse synteny between dicot and monocot plants due to frequent rearrangements, translocations and gene losses strongly impairs and reduces the number of orthologs detectable by positional conservation. To address the limitations of sparse synteny and expanded gene families, we applied for the detection of orthologs in this study orthoMCL, a sequence-based approach that allows to group closely related paralogs into one orthologous gene cluster. For a total of 49 out of 170 Arabidopsis genes we could identify conserved copy numbers between the dicot model and the grass annotations whereas approximately one third (34.7%, 59 genes) of the selected Arabidopsis genes lack an assignment to any of the grass genome annotations. The remaining 62 Arabidopsis genes represent groups that are considerably biased in their copy numbers between Arabidopsis and all or most of the three grass genomes.
20817445	Biomaterials can be converted into solid, liquid and gaseous fuels through thermochemical or biochemical conversion processes. Thermochemical conversion of granular biomaterials is difficult because of its physical nature and one of the suitable processes is fluidized bed gasification. In this study, coir pith, rice husk and saw dust were selected and synthetic gas was generated using a fluidized bed gasifier. Gas compositions of product gas were analyzed and the percentage of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide was in the range of 8.24-19.55 and 10.21-17.14, respectively. The effect of equivalence ratio (0.3, 0.4 and 0.5) and reaction time (at 10 min interval) on gas constituents was studied. The gas yield for coir pith, rice husk and sawdust were found to be in the range of 1.98-3.24, 1.79-2.81 and 2.18-3.70 Nm3 kg(-1), respectively. Models were developed to study the influence of biomaterial properties and operating conditions on molar concentration of gas constituents and energy output.
20817745	In plants, the two-component systems (TCSs) play important roles in regulating diverse biological processes, including responses to environmental stress stimuli. Within the soybean genome, the TCSs consist of at least 21 histidine kinases, 13 authentic and pseudo-phosphotransfers and 18 type-A, 15 type-B, 3 type-C and 11 pseudo-response regulator proteins. Structural and phylogenetic analyses of soybean TCS members with their Arabidopsis and rice counterparts revealed similar architecture of their TCSs. We identified a large number of closely homologous soybean TCS genes, which likely resulted from genome duplication. Additionally, we analysed tissue-specific expression profiles of those TCS genes, whose data are available from public resources. To predict the putative regulatory functions of soybean TCS members, with special emphasis on stress-responsive functions, we performed comparative analyses from all the TCS members of soybean, Arabidopsis and rice and coupled these data with annotations of known abiotic stress-responsive cis-elements in the promoter region of each soybean TCS gene. Our study provides insights into the architecture and a solid foundation for further functional characterization of soybean TCS elements. In addition, we provide a new resource for studying the conservation and divergence among the TCSs within plant species and/or between plants and other organisms.
20818397	Parasitic weeds of the genera Striga and Orobanche are considered the most damaging agricultural agents in the developing world. An essential step in parasitic seed germination is sensing a group of structurally related compounds called strigolactones that are released by host plants. Although this makes strigolactone synthesis and action a major target of biotechnology, little fundamental information is known about this hormone. Chemical genetic screening using Arabidopsis thaliana as a platform identified a collection of related small molecules, cotylimides, which perturb strigolactone accumulation. Suppressor screens against select cotylimides identified light-signaling genes as positive regulators of strigolactone levels. Molecular analysis showed strigolactones regulate the nuclear localization of the COP1 ubiquitin ligase, which in part determines the levels of light regulators such as HY5. This information not only uncovers new functions for strigolactones but was also used to identify rice cultivars with reduced capacity to germinate parasitic seed.
20818521	The effect of compost-amendment and moisture status on the persistence of azoxystrobin [methyl (E)-2-{2-(6-(2-cyanophenoxy) pyrimidin-4-yloxy) phenyl}-3-methoxyacrylate], a strobilurin fungicide, in two rice-growing soils was studied. Azoxystrobin is more sorbed in the silt loam (K f – 4.66) soil than the sandy loam (K f – 2.98) soil. Compost-amendment at 5 % levels further enhanced the azoxystrobin sorption and the respective Kf values in silt loam and sandy loam soils were 8.48 and 7.6. Azoxystrobin was more persistent in the sandy loam soil than the silt loam soil. The half–life values of azoxystrobin in nonflooded and flooded silt loam soil were 54.7 and 46.3 days, respectively. The corresponding half–life values in the sandy loam soils were 64 and 62.7 days, respectively. Compost application enhanced persistence of azoxystrobin in the silt loam soil under both moisture regimes and half-life values in non–flooded and flooded soils were 115.7 and 52.8 days, respectively. However, compost enhanced azoxystrobin degradation in the sandy loam soil and half-life values were 59 (nonflooded) and 54.7 days (flooded). The study indicates that compost amendment enhanced azoxystrobin sorption in the soils. Azoxystrobin is more persistent in non-flooded soils than the flooded soils. Compost applications to soils had mixed effect on the azoxystrobin degradation.
2081984	To clarify the discrepancy between values of thiamin intake reported in national nutrition survey in Japan and judgment which was concluded by medical and biochemical examination in our field survey, thiamin of various daily foods were analyzed pre and post cooking in the various cooking methods, the following results were obtained. (1) The thiamin contents in cooked daily meals were 50-60 percent of the calculated values on an average. (2) The cooking losses of thiamin were particularly large in rice and green vegetables. (3) The loss of thiamin largest in boiling, followed by baking, parching and frying. (4) High temperature, pH, and chlorine on the public water accelerated thiamin losses. (5) The decrease of thiamin in cooked foods is caused by both of getting away of thiamin from foods and cleavage of thiamin of foods.
20820506	Nanofibers, produced by electrospinning a solution containing titanium tetra(IV) isopropoxide, polyvinyl acetate and acetic acid in N,N-dimethyl acetamide, upon sintering at 500 °C produce rice grain-shaped TiO(2) mesostructures. Each rice grain-shaped TiO(2) has a mixed crystal structure and high porosity and the mesostructures are found to have applications in dye-sensitized solar cells.
20820808	A videofluorographic (VF) swallowing study was performed on 22 healthy volunteers to observe the complete mastication and swallowing phases for Japanese udon noodles and white rice. The hardness, stickiness, and cohesiveness of food samples were measured using a food texture analyzing system. VF images were acquired using a versatile fluoroscopic unit and barium sulfate was used as a contrast medium. Udon noodles had a harder and smoother food texture than white rice. Fewer chewing movements and more stage 2 transport were seen during the consumption of udon noodles than for white rice.
20821031	Sucrose synthase catalyzes the reaction sucrose + UDP → UDP-glucose + fructose, the first step in the conversion of sucrose to starch in endosperm. Previous studies identified two tissue-specific, yet functionally redundant, sucrose synthase (SUS) genes, Sus1 and Sus2. In the present study, the wheat Sus2 orthologous gene (TaSus2) series was isolated and mapped on chromosomes 2A, 2B, and 2D. Based on sequencing in 61 wheat accessions, three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were detected in TaSus2-2B. These formed two haplotypes (Hap-H and Hap-L), but no diversity was found in either TaSus2-2A or TaSus2-2D. Based on the sequences of the two haplotypes, we developed a co-dominant marker, TaSus2-2B (tgw), which amplified 423 or 381-bp fragments in different wheat accessions. TaSus2-2B (tgw) was located between markers Xbarc102.2 and Xbarc91 on chromosome 2BS in a RIL population from Xiaoyan 54 × Jing 411. Association analysis suggested that the two haplotypes were significantly associated with 1,000 grain weight (TGW) in 89 modern wheat varieties in the Chinese mini-core collection. Mean TGW difference between the two haplotypes over three cropping seasons was 4.26 g (varying from 3.71 to 4.94 g). Comparative genomics analysis detected major kernel weight QTLs not only in the chromosome region containing TaSus2-2B (tgw), but also in the collinear regions of TaSus2 on rice chromosome 7 and maize chromosome 9. The preferred Hap-H haplotype for high TGW underwent very strong positive selection in Chinese wheat breeding, but not in Europe. The geographic distribution of Hap-H was perhaps determined by both latitude and the intensity of selection in wheat breeding.
2082107	Food poisoning by Salmonella in hospitals and other health care centers is not uncommon and occasionally results in high mortality rates. We report an outbreak of food poisoning that took place in June 1987 in a hospital. A staff relay was primarily affected, with an attack rate of 59.3%. The mean incubation period was 31.2 hours. The epidemiological evidence pointed to a rice with milk served as a dessert as the transmitting vehicle, although the contamination source could not be identified. Subsequently, 11 days after the start of the outbreak, 9 cases were identified among the patients cared for at the center, which were considered as secondary cases. The causative organism was Salmonella (serovariety enteritidis, phage type A). All the involved individuals had a favorable outcome. The transmission of the mentioned organism within the hospital milieu has not been previously reported. In food poisoning developing in health care centers, the exposed individuals should be extremely careful and absolutely conscious of the need for complying with hygienic rules. In our area, we recommend sick leave while symptoms persist or the culture of feces is positive.
20821071	A starch-utilizing, yeast-like fusant was successfully created from fused protoplasts of Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Monascus anka, and the feasibility of using this fusant as a new strain for alcoholic beverage development was reported. The new fusant utilized various carbon sources more efficiently than its parent cells did. Rice koji prepared separately by cultivating the fusant and its parental strains on rice was compared to explore the effect of yeast strain on the production of α-amylase, glucoamylase, and acid protease that are crucial in wine making using cereal grains. It was found that the fusant produced greater levels of the above-mentioned enzymes than its parental strain does. Consequently, the usage of this fusant in the alcoholic fermentation of polished rice was found to reduce approximately 50% consumption of added glucoamylase than when its parental strain was used. Besides, at the end of fermentation, the fusant yeast resulted in a mash with distribution of flavor components very different from that produced by its parental strains. Thus, the fusant can be used as a new yeast strain for creating novel alcoholic beverages.
20821243	Water-deficit stress is detrimental for rice growth, development, and yield. Transcriptome analysis of 1-week-old rice (Oryza sativa L. var. IR64) seedling under water-deficit stress condition using Affymetrix 57 K GeneChip® has revealed 1,563 and 1,746 genes to be up- and downregulated, respectively. In an effort to amalgamate data across laboratories, we identified 5,611 differentially expressing genes under varying extrinsic water-deficit stress conditions in six vegetative and one reproductive stage of development in rice. Transcription factors (TFs) involved in ABA-dependent and ABA-independent pathways have been found to be upregulated during water-deficit stress. Members of zinc-finger TFs namely, C₂H₂, C₂C₂, C₃H, LIM, PHD, WRKY, ZF-HD, and ZIM, along with TF families like GeBP, jumonji, MBF1 and ULT express differentially under water-deficit conditions. NAC (NAM, ATAF and CUC) TF family emerges to be a potential key regulator of multiple abiotic stresses. Among the 12 TF genes that are co-upregulated under water-deficit, salt and cold stress conditions, five belong to the NAC TF family. We identified water-deficit stress-responsive genes encoding key enzymes involved in biosynthesis of osmoprotectants like polyols and sugars; amino acid and quaternary ammonium compounds; cell wall loosening and structural components; cholesterol and very long chain fatty acid; cytokinin and secondary metabolites. Comparison of genes responsive to water-deficit stress conditions with genes preferentially expressed during panicle and seed development revealed a significant overlap of transcriptome alteration and pathways.
20821654	The objectives of the present study were to elucidate the chemical and structural properties of dissolved organic matter (DOM) derived from aerobic decay of rice straw and to quantify the effect of the DOM on the sorption of pyrene on soil. The DOM samples were obtained from microcosms incubated at 0, 21, 63, and 180 d. The bulk DOM samples were fractionated to four fractions: hydrophilic matter (HIM), acid-insoluble matter (AIM), hydrophobic acid (HOA), and hydrophobic neutral (HON) fractions. The bulk DOM and the four DOM fractions were characterized for their elemental compositions and functionalities. The results showed that HIM had the highest H/C atomic ratios, whereas HOA and AIM had the lowest H/C atomic ratios. These DOM samples were used as the background DOMs in the initial aqueous solutions for measuring sorption of pyrene on a paddy soil. The results indicated that, among the four DOM fractions, HOA, HON, and AIM significantly lowered the pyrene sorption coefficients, but HIM had little or no effect on the pyrene sorption by the soil. It appears that less polar AIM and HON had stronger binding affinities for pyrene in water, reducing the sorption coefficient for the soil, whereas more polar and less aromatic HIM had much weaker binding affinity for pyrene in water, causing little or no effect on the pyrene sorption by the soil. The present study showed that rice straw-derived DOM may enhance desorption and transport of organic pollutants in soil-water systems.
20822502	This comprehensive overview of the xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase (XTH) family of genes and proteins in bryophytes, based on research using genomic resources that are newly available for the moss Physcomitrella patens, provides new insights into plant evolution. In angiosperms, the XTH genes are found in large multi-gene families, probably reflecting the diverse roles of individual XTHs in various cell types. As there are fewer cell types in P. patens than in angiosperms such as Arabidopsis and rice, it is tempting to deduce that there are fewer XTH family genes in bryophytes. However, the present study unexpectedly identified as many as 32 genes that potentially encode XTH family proteins in the genome of P. patens, constituting a fairly large multi-gene family that is comparable in size with those of Arabidopsis and rice. In situ localization of xyloglucan endotransglucosylase activity in this moss indicates that some P. patens XTH proteins exhibit biochemical functions similar to those found in angiosperms, and that their expression profiles are tissue-dependent. However, comparison of structural features of families of XTH genes between P. patens and angiosperms demonstrated the existence of several bryophyte-specific XTH genes with distinct structural and functional features that are not found in angiosperms. These bryophyte-specific XTH genes might have evolved to meet morphological and functional needs specific to the bryophyte. These findings raise interesting questions about the biological implications of the XTH family of proteins in non-seed plants.
20822505	MADS-box transcription factors are known for their roles in plant growth and development. The regulatory mechanisms of spatial and temporal specific expression of MADS-box genes and the function of MADS-box genes in other biological processes are still to be explored. Here, we report that OsMADS6 is highly expressed in flower and endosperm in Oryza sativa (rice). In addition to displaying a homeotic organ identity phenotype in all the four whorls of the flowers, the endosperm development is severely affected in its mutant. At least 32% of the seeds lacked starch filling and aborted. For seeds that have starch filling and develop to maturity, the starch content is reduced by at least 13%. In addition, the seed shape changes from elliptical to roundish, and the protein content increases from 12.1 to 15.0% (P < 0.05). Further investigation shows that ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase genes, encoding the rate-limiting step enzyme in the starch synthesis pathway, are subject to the regulation of OsMADS6. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-PCR analyses on the chromatin of the OsMADS6 gene find that H3K27 is trimethylated in tissues where OsMADS6 is silenced, and that H3K36 is trimethylated in tissues where OsMADS6 is highly activated. Point mutation analysis reveals that leucine at position 83 is critical to OsMADS6 function.
20823253	Intake of toxic cadmium (Cd) from rice caused Itai-itai disease in the past and it is still a threat for human health. Therefore, control of the accumulation of Cd from soil is an important food-safety issue, but the molecular mechanism for the control is unknown. Herein, we report a gene (OsHMA3) responsible for low Cd accumulation in rice that was isolated from a mapping population derived from a cross between a high and low Cd-accumulating cultivar. The gene encodes a transporter belonging to the P(1B)-type ATPase family, but shares low similarity with other members. Heterologous expression in yeast showed that the transporter from the low-Cd cultivar is functional, but the transporter from the high-Cd cultivar had lost its function, probably because of the single amino acid mutation. The transporter is mainly expressed in the tonoplast of root cells at a similar level in both the low and high Cd-accumulating cultivars. Overexpression of the functional gene from the low Cd-accumulating cultivar selectively decreased accumulation of Cd, but not other micronutrients in the grain. Our results indicated that OsHMA3 from the low Cd-accumulating cultivar limits translocation of Cd from the roots to the above-ground tissues by selectively sequestrating Cd into the root vacuoles.
20823489	Developing countries are undergoing rapid nutrition transition concurrent with increases in obesity, the metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). From a healthy traditional high-fiber, low-fat, low-calorie diet, a shift is occurring toward increasing consumption of calorie-dense foods containing refined carbohydrates, fats, red meats, and low fiber. Data show an increase in the supply of animal fats and increased intake of saturated fatty acid (SFAs) (obtained from coconut oil, palm oil, and ghee [clarified butter]) in many developing countries, particularly in South Asia and South-East Asia. In some South Asian populations, particularly among vegetarians, intake of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) (obtained from flaxseed, mustard, and canola oils) and long-chain (LC) n-3 PUFAs (obtained from fish and fish oils) is low. Further, the effect of supplementation of n-3 PUFAs on metabolic risk factors and insulin resistance, except for demonstrated benefit in terms of decreased triglycerides, needs further investigation among South Asians. Data also show that intake of monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) ranged from 4.7% to 16.4%en in developing countries, and supplementing it from olive, canola, mustard, groundnut, and rice bran oils may reduce metabolic risk. In addition, in some developing countries, intake of n-6 PUFAs (obtained from sunflower, safflower, corn, soybean, and sesame oils) and trans-fatty acids (TFAs) is increasing. These data show imbalanced consumption of fats and oils in developing countries, which may have potentially deleterious metabolic and glycemic consequences, although more research is needed. In view of the rapid rise of T2DM in developing countries, more aggressive public health awareness programs coupled with governmental action and clear country-specific guidelines are required, so as to promote widespread use of healthy oils, thus curbing intake of SFAs and TFAs, and increasing intake of n-3 PUFAs and MUFAs. Such actions would contribute to decelerating further escalation of "epidemics" of obesity, the metabolic syndrome, and T2DM in developing countries.
20824330	One hundred unpackaged rice samples, each weighing 500 g, were randomly collected at retail stores and open markets in the largest rice growing area (Thrace) in Turkey and analysed for mould counts, predominant mould genera, moisture content and mycotoxin levels. Mould counts ranged from 1.0 × 10(1) to 1.5 × 10(4) cfu/g in 70 of 100 samples, and the correlation between moisture content and mould count was significant (p ≤ 0.05). Aspergillus spp. and Penicillium spp., potential mycotoxin producers, were the dominant moulds. In one area from which samples were collected, the mycotoxin content of rice was found to be positively correlated with moisture content; samples with higher moisture also contained higher numbers of moulds. The levels of total aflatoxins, aflatoxin B1 and ochratoxin A were higher than the maximum tolerable limits (4, 2 and 3 μg/kg, according to the EC Regulation and the Turkish Food Codex) for 32, 14 and 30 of 100 rice samples, respectively. This is the first comprehensive report of ochratoxin A levels in rice grown in Thrace, Turkey.
20825165	Predominantly, rice Os3BGlu7 operates as a β-d-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21), while barley HvBII acts as a β-d-mannosidase (EC 3.2.1.25). Saturation transfer difference nuclear magnetic resonance (STD NMR) and transferred nuclear Overhauser effect (trNOE) spectroscopy in conjunction with quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) modeling and docking at the 6-31+G* level were used to investigate binding of S- and O-linked gluco- and manno-configured aryl-β-d-glycosides to Os3BGlu7 and HvBII. Kinetic analyses with 4-nitrophenyl β-d-thioglucoside (4NP-S-Glc) and 4-nitrophenyl β-d-thiomannoside (4NP-S-Man) indicated that the inhibitions were competitive with apparent K(i) constants of 664 and 710 μM for Os3BGlu7 and 95 and 266 μM for HvBII, respectively. The STD NMR and trNOESY experiments revealed that 4NP-S-Glc and 4NP-S-Man bound weakly in (4)C(1) conformations to Os3BGlu7; 4NP-S-Glc adopted (3)S(5) (B(3,O)) or (1)S(3) ((1,4)B) conformations, and 4NP-S-Man preferred (4)C(1) geometry, when bound to HvBII. The QM modeling and docking, based on GLIDE scores, predicted that 4NP-O-Glc, 4NP-O-Man, and 4NP-S-Man bound preferentially in (1)S(3) geometries to both enzymes, contrary to 4NP-S-Glc that could also adopt a (4)C(1) conformation, although in a "flipped-down" ring position. The experimental and computational data suggested that in glycoside recognition and substrate specificity of Os3BGlu7 and HvBII, a combination of the following determinants is likely to play key roles: (i) the inherent conformational and spatial flexibilities of gluco- and manno-configured substrates in the enzymes' active sites, (ii) the subtle differences in the spatial disposition of active site residues and their capacities to form interactions with specific groups of substrates, and (iii) the small variations in the charge distributions and shapes of the catalytic sites.
20825577	With global climate change, abnormally low temperatures have affected the world's rice production. Many genes have been shown to be essential for molecular improvement of rice cold-tolerance traits. However, less is known about the molecular cellular mechanism of their response to cold stress. Here, we investigated OsRAN2 involved in regulation of cell division during cold stress in rice. Expression of OsRAN2 was increased under cold treatment, but not during salt and drought stress. The mean root mitotic index was closely related to the expression level of OsRAN2. Knockdown transgenic rice lines showed an aberrant organization of spindles during mitosis and stunted growth during development. Overexpression of OsRAN2 enhanced cold tolerance in rice. The transgenic rice overexpressing OsRAN2 showed maintained cell division, decreased proportion of cells with intranuclear tubulin and formation of a normal nuclear envelope under the cold condition. Our study suggests a mechanism for OsRAN2 in regulating cold resistance in rice by maintaining cell division through promoting the normal export of intranuclear tubulin at the end of mitosis. This insight could help improve the cold-tolerance trait in rice.
20826881	Term-enrichment analysis facilitates biological interpretation by assigning to experimentally/computationally obtained data annotation associated with terms from controlled vocabularies. This process usually involves obtaining statistical significance for each vocabulary term and using the most significant terms to describe a given set of biological entities, often associated with weights. Many existing enrichment methods require selections of (arbitrary number of) the most significant entities and/or do not account for weights of entities. Others either mandate extensive simulations to obtain statistics or assume normal weight distribution. In addition, most methods have difficulty assigning correct statistical significance to terms with few entities. Implementing the well-known Lugananni-Rice formula, we have developed a novel approach, called SaddleSum, that is free from all the aforementioned constraints and evaluated it against several existing methods. With entity weights properly taken into account, SaddleSum is internally consistent and stable with respect to the choice of number of most significant entities selected. Making few assumptions on the input data, the proposed method is universal and can thus be applied to areas beyond analysis of microarrays. Employing asymptotic approximation, SaddleSum provides a term-size-dependent score distribution function that gives rise to accurate statistical significance even for terms with few entities. As a consequence, SaddleSum enables researchers to place confidence in its significance assignments to small terms that are often biologically most specific. Our implementation, which uses Bonferroni correction to account for multiple hypotheses testing, is available at http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/CBBresearch/qmbp/mn/enrich/. Source code for the standalone version can be downloaded from ftp://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pub/qmbpmn/SaddleSum/.
20826955	Through activating specific transcriptional programmes, plants can launch resistance mechanisms to stressful environments and acquire a new equilibrium between development and defence. To screen the rice WRKY transcription factor which functions in abiotic stress tolerance and modulates the abscisic acid (ABA) response, we generated a whole array of 35S-OsWRKY transgenic Arabidopsis. In this study, we report that 35S-OsWRKY72 transgenic Arabidopsis, whose seed germination was retarded under normal conditions, emerged more sensitive to mannitol, NaCl, ABA stresses and sugar starvation than vector plants. Meanwhile, 35S-OsWRKY72 transgenic Arabidopsis displayed early flowering, reduced apical dominance, lost high temperature-induced hypocotyl elongation response, and enhanced gravitropism response, which were similar to the auxin-related gene mutants aux1, axr1 and bud1. Further, semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed that the expression patterns of three auxin-related genes AUX1, AXR1 and BUD1 were significantly altered in rosette leaves and infl orescences of 35S-OsWRKY72 plants compared with control Arabidopsis, and two ABA-related genes ABA2 and ABI4 were induced in 35S-OsWRKY72 seedlings. In addition, northern blot analysis indicated that, in rice, OsWRKY72 was inducible by polyethylene glycol (PEG), NaCl, naphthalene acetic acid (NAA), ABA and 42 degrees C, similar to its orthologue AtWRKY75 in Arabidopsis, implying that these two WRKY genes might be required for multiple physiological processes in their plants. Together, these results suggest that OsWRKY72 interferes in the signal cross-talk between the ABA signal and auxin transport pathway in transgenic Arabidopsis.
20827054	The determination method of total arsenic (As) and the speciation method of inorganic As for non-glutinous rice reported in our preceding paper were applied to several varieties of rice under optimized experimental conditions. In the determination of total As with ICP-MS, acetic acid was added to increase the sensitivity and an internal reference method with germanium was adopted to increase the precision. The extraction temperature in the partial-digestion method with nitric acid to speciate inorganic As was raised to 100 degrees C, because extraction efficiency over 90% was obtained from glutinous rice and colored rice at this temperature. In the investigation of polished and unpolished forms of non-glutinous, glutinous, and colored rice, the amounts of total and inorganic As were 0.04-0.54 mg/kg and 0.02-0.41 mg/kg, respectively. The color of rice was not related to total or inorganic As content. These results indicate that the inorganic As content in commercial rice should be carefully monitored.
20829052	Protease activities and its relation to the contents of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) and Rubisco activase were investigated in detached leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.) floated on the solutions containing abscisic acid (ABA) or benzyladenine (BA). Rubisco and Rubisco activase contents were decreased during the time course and the decreases were enhanced by ABA and suppressed by BA. The decrease in Rubisco activase was faster than that in Rubisco. SDS-dependent protease activities at 50-70 kDa (rice SDS-dependent protease: RSP) analyzed by the gelatin containing PAGE were significantly enhanced by ABA. RSPs were also increased in attached leaves during senescence. RSPs had the pH optimum of 5.5, suggesting that RSPs are vacuolar protease. Both decrease in Rubisco and Rubisco activase contents and increase in RSPs activities were suppressed by cycloheximide. These findings indicate that the activities of RSPs are well correlated with the decrease in these protein contents. Immunoblotting analysis showed that Rubisco in the leaf extracts was completely degraded by 5h at pH 5.5 with SDS where it was optimal condition for RSPs. However, the degradation of Rubisco did not proceed at pH 7.5 without SDS where it is near physiological condition for stromal proteins. Rubisco activase was degraded at similar rate under both conditions. These results suggest that RSPs can functions in a senescence related degradation system of chloroplast protein in rice leaves. Rubisco activase would be more susceptible to proteolysis than Rubisco under physiological condition and this could affect the contents of these proteins in leaves.
20829204	The Environmental Survey Laboratory at Kalpakkam, India carries out elaborate monitoring programme involving atmospheric, terrestrial and aquatic samples for radioactivity to evaluate the impact of operating two pressurised heavy water reactors. This paper presents the evaluation of 25 y (1983-2008) data. Statistical analysis of the environmental data for different radionuclides showed that the data best fits log-normal distribution. The data analysed showed that fission products such as (137)Cs, (90)Sr and (131)I were due to global fallout only. A ratio of 0.2 was obtained for (90)Sr to (137)Cs in air filter samples, only during Chernobyl accident period. The transfer factor of (137)Cs and (90)Sr for rice was computed to be 0.23 and 0.03 and vegetables 0.25 and 0.10, respectively. Activation products (3)H and (41)Ar are the only radionuclides that are related to MAPS operation. A strong correlation (r = 0.9) was observed between (3)H activity in air and (3)H discharged to the atmosphere. A similar correlation (r = 0.8) was observed in (3)H concentration in seawater and (3)H discharged in the liquid waste. The annual internal dose due to (3)H and annual external dose due to (41)Ar evaluated in the last 25 y show that the members of the public received less than 2 % of the dose limit (1 mSv y(-1)) set by ICRP 72.
20829342	As a part of the study to reveal the biological significance of de-N-glycosylation in plants, we analysed the structural features of free N-glycans (FNGs) accumulated inside cells and secreted to the extracellular space using a rice cell culture system. The structural analysis of FNGs obtained from the intracellular fraction revealed that the high-mannose type N-glycans with one GlcNAc residue (GN1-type) occurred at a concentration of ∼10 nmol/g, while the truncated complex type N-glycans with a N, N'-diacetylchitobiosyl unit (GN2-type) occurred at a concentration of ∼1 nmol/g. This result suggested that two kinds of glycoenzymes, cytosolic endo-β-N-acetylglucosaminidase (ENGase) and intracellular acidic peptide:N-glycanse (PNGase), are involved in the production of FNGs in rice cell as well as in other plant cells. On the other hand, in the culture medium, Lewis a epitope-containing complex and high-mannose type FNGs with the N, N'-diacetylchitobiosyl unit were found, suggesting extracellular acidic PNGase to be involved in the release of N-glycans from folded/processed glycoproteins in extracellular space. Furthermore, in the culture medium, we found unusual GN1-FNGs that have a biantennary complex type structure harbouring the Lewis a epitope, suggesting cytosolic ENGase and golgi N-glycan-processing enzymes to be involved in the production of these plant complex type FNGs.
20829346	The evolution of metabolic pathways is a fundamental but poorly understood aspect of evolutionary change. One approach for understanding the complexity of pathway evolution is to examine the molecular evolution of genes that together comprise an integrated metabolic pathway. The rice endosperm starch biosynthetic pathway is one of the most thoroughly characterized metabolic pathways in plants, and starch is a trait that has evolved in response to strong selection during rice domestication. In this study, we have examined six key genes (AGPL2, AGPS2b, SSIIa, SBEIIb, GBSSI, ISA1) in the rice endosperm starch biosynthesis pathway to investigate the evolution of these genes before and after rice domestication. Genome-wide sequence tagged sites data were used as a neutral reference to overcome the problems of detecting selection in species with complex demographic histories such as rice. Five variety groups of Oryza sativa (aus, indica, tropical japonica, temperate japonica, aromatic) and its wild ancestor (O. rufipogon) were sampled. Our results showed evidence of purifying selection at AGPL2 in O. rufipogon and strong evidence of positive selection at GBSSI in temperate japonica and tropical japonica varieties and at GBSSI and SBEIIb in aromatic varieties. All the other genes showed a pattern consistent with neutral evolution in both cultivated rice and its wild ancestor. These results indicate the important role of positive selection in the evolution of starch genes during rice domestication. We discuss the role of SBEIIb and GBSSI in the evolution of starch quality during rice domestication and the power and limitation of detecting selection using genome-wide data as a neutral reference.
20830488	The nonautonomous nDart1 element in the hAT superfamily is one of a few active DNA transposons in rice. Its transposition can be induced by crossing with a line containing an active autonomous element, aDart1, and stabilized by segregating aDart1. No somaclonal variation should occur in nDart1-promoted gene tagging because no tissue culture is involved in nDart1 activation. By transposon display analysis, we examined the activities of nDart1-related elements in the selfed progeny of a mutable virescent pyl-v plant containing aDart1. Although various nDart1-related elements are present in the rice genome, only nDart1-3 subgroup elements, nDart1-0 and nDart1-3 in particular, were found to be transposed frequently and integrated into various sites almost all over the genome, and a fraction of the transposed elements were found to be transmitted to the next generation. More than half of the newly integrated elements were identified as nDart1-0. Analysis of the newly inserted sites revealed that the nDart1-3 subgroup elements were predominantly integrated into single-copy regions. More than 60% of the transposed elements were inserted into the genic regions that comprise putative coding regions and their 0.5-kb flanking segments, and approximately two-thirds of them were within the 0.5-kb area in front of the putative initiation codons, i.e., promoter-proximal genic regions. These characteristic features of nDart1-3 subgroup elements seem to be suitable for developing an efficient and somaclonal variation-free gene tagging system for rice functional genomics.
20830636	Pasta is prepared using dough made from any suitable material such as semolina, durum flour, farina flour, corn, rice, wheat, or any combination of these, with water. Also, pasta can be enriched, supplemented, fortified, or remain conventional. In recent years, several ingredients and additives have been developed and are being used to improve the quality of pasta made from aestivum or durum wheat. Here we analyze how the different ingredients play an important role in pasta manufacture by enhancing nutritional parameters, palatability, and overall product quality.
20831234	The gas-phase isomerization and decomposition reactions of dimethyl ethylphosphonate (DMEP) are investigated using the CBS-QB3 method followed by the calculation of rate constant for all reaction pathways using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory. Three conformational isomers C1, C2, and C3 are identified for DMEP having stability order C1 (0.00) < C2 (0.11) < C3 (1.87). Each conformer can isomerize via H-transfer reaction and can decompose via CH(3)OH, CH(2), and H(2) elimination at higher temperatures. The conformers C1, C2, and C3 can isomerize to IM1, IM2, and IM3, respectively, via different pathways. Decomposition requires much higher activation energy and therefore higher temperatures than the corresponding isomerization. For instance, the most stable conformer C1 isomerizes to IM1 twice as fast as decomposing to P1 + CH(2) at 1000 K whereas the least stable conformer C3 isomerizes to IM3 10(4) times faster than decomposing to P5 + CH(3)OH. Only one decomposition channel is identified for C1 and two different decomposition channels are identified for C2 as well as for C3. The decompositions of C2 and C3 to P2 + CH(3)OH and P5 + CH(3)OH, respectively, are predicted to be more favorable thermodynamically as well as kinetically over the other decomposition channels within the temperature range 1000-3000 K. For the lack of experimental data, we have calculated the low as well as high-pressure limit rate constants for the decomposition reactions of DMEP. In addition, consistent and reliable enthalpies of formation at 298.15 K (Δ(f)H°(298.15)) have been computed for all the species involved in the isomerization and decomposition reaction of DMEP. The results obtained for DMEP for the reaction mechanism and energetics are compared with that for DMHP and DMMP.
20832349	Determination of gene function is particularly problematic when studying large-gene families because redundancy limits the ability to assess the contributions of individual genes experimentally. Phylogenomics is a phylogenetic approach used in comparative genomics to predict the biological functions of members of large gene-families by assessing the similarity among gene products. In this report, we describe the application of the Rice Kinase Database for elucidating functions of individual members of this gene family.
20832775	5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) and furfural, both of which can be derived from renewable sources, are key components for the production of different chemicals and fuels. In this study, rice straw, a cheap, abundant, and mainly unused agricultural waste, is converted to furans by a dilute acid hydrolysis process. The highest yield of HMF in a single-phase hydrolysis was 15.3 g/kg straw, attained at 180°C during 3 h with 0.5% sulfuric acid, while the maximum yield of furfural, 59 g/kg straw, was obtained at 150°C during 5 h. Different extracting solvents, including 2-PrOH, 1-BuOH, methyl isobutyl ketone (MIBK), and acetone at 180°C for 3 h as well as tetrahydrofuran (THF) at 150°C for 5 h were examined in biphasic systems. Use of the solvents generally improved the production of HMF compared to the single aqueous phase process. The best results of HMF production, more than 59 g/kg straw, were obtained in the systems containing either 2-PrOH or 1-BuOH. Using THF as an extracting solvent, a relatively high furfural yield, 118.2 g/kg straw, was obtained, and 96% of furfural produced in this system was extracted into THF during the process.
20833728	Genome-wide expression signatures detect specific perturbations in developmental programs and contribute to functional resolution of key regulatory networks. In maize (Zea mays) inflorescences, mutations in the RAMOSA (RA) genes affect the determinacy of axillary meristems and thus alter branching patterns, an important agronomic trait. In this work, we developed and tested a framework for analysis of tag-based, digital gene expression profiles using Illumina's high-throughput sequencing technology and the newly assembled B73 maize reference genome. We also used a mutation in the RA3 gene to identify putative expression signatures specific to stem cell fate in axillary meristem determinacy. The RA3 gene encodes a trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase and may act at the interface between developmental and metabolic processes. Deep sequencing of digital gene expression libraries, representing three biological replicate ear samples from wild-type and ra3 plants, generated 27 million 20- to 21-nucleotide reads with frequencies spanning 4 orders of magnitude. Unique sequence tags were anchored to 3'-ends of individual transcripts by DpnII and NlaIII digests, which were multiplexed during sequencing. We mapped 86% of nonredundant signature tags to the maize genome, which associated with 37,117 gene models and unannotated regions of expression. In total, 66% of genes were detected by at least nine reads in immature maize ears. We used comparative genomics to leverage existing information from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) in functional analyses of differentially expressed maize genes. Results from this study provide a basis for the analysis of short-read expression data in maize and resolved specific expression signatures that will help define mechanisms of action for the RA3 gene.
20833988	This randomized controlled study was conducted to determine the effect of low glycemic index (GI) dietary advice on eating patterns and dietary quality in Asian patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM). Asian patients with T2DM (N = 104) were randomized into 2 groups that received either low GI or conventional carbohydrate exchange (CCE) dietary advice for 12 weeks. Nutritional prescriptions were based on the medical nutrition therapy for T2DM, with the difference being in the GI component of the carbohydrates. Dietary intake and food choices were assessed with the use of a 3-day food record. At week 12, both groups achieved the recommendations for carbohydrate (52 ± 4% and 54 ± 4% of energy) and fat (30 ± 4% and 28 ± 5% of energy) intake. There were no significant differences in the reported macronutrient intake in both groups. With the low GI diet, crude fiber and dietary calcium intake increased, while the dietary GI reduced. Subjects in the lowest dietary glycemic index/glycemic load (GI/GL) quartile consumed more parboiled/basmati rice, pasta, milk/dairy products, fruits, and dough, which are foods from the low GI category. There was a significant reduction in the hemoglobin A(1c) level at week 12 for patients in the lowest GI/GL quartile (Δ = -0.7 ± 0.1%) compared with those in the highest GI/GL quartile (Δ = -0.1 ± 0.2%). These results demonstrate the ability of low GI dietary advice to improve the dietary quality of Asian patients with T2DM.
20835616	Rhodnius ecuadoriensis is considered the second most important vector of Chagas disease in Ecuador. It is distributed across six of the 24 provinces and occupies intradomiciliary, peridomiciliary and sylvatic habitats. This study was conducted in six communities within the coastal province of Guayas. Triatomine searches were conducted in domestic and peridomestic habitats and bird nests using manual searches, live-bait traps and sensor boxes. Synantrhopic mammals were captured in the domestic and peridomestic habitats. Household searches (n = 429) and randomly placed sensor boxes (n = 360) produced no live triatomine adults or nymphs. In contrast, eight nymphs were found in two out of six searched Campylorhynchus fasciatus (Troglodytidae) nests. Finally, Trypanosoma cruzi DNA was amplified from the blood of 10% of the 115 examined mammals. Environmental changes in land use (intensive rice farming), mosquito control interventions and lack of intradomestic adaptation are suggested among the possible reasons for the lack of domestic triatomine colonies.
20836122	Gingerol derivatives are bioactive compounds isolated from the rhizome of ginger. They possess various beneficial activities, such as anticancer and hepatoprotective activities, and are therefore attractive targets of bioengineering. However, the microbial production of gingerol derivatives has not yet been established, primarily because the biosynthetic pathway of gingerol is unknown. Here, we report the production of several dehydrogingerdione (a gingerol derivative) analogues from a recombinant Escherichia coli strain that has an "artificial" biosynthesis pathway for dehydrogingerdione that was not based on the original biosynthesis pathway of gingerol derivatives in plants. The system consists of a 4-coumarate:CoA ligase from Lithospermum erythrorhizon, a fatty acid CoA ligase from Oryza sativa, a β-oxidation system from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and a curcuminoid synthase from O. sativa. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the microbial production of a plant metabolite the biosynthetic pathway of which has not yet been identified.
20836161	An investigation was carried out to assess the possibility of using single dietary sources as alternatives to feed deprivation for the induction of moult in commercial laying hens. The study involved six dietary groups of 29 laying hens: unmoulted, dried tomato pomace, alfalfa meal, rice bran, cumin seed meal and feed withdrawal. The birds received the above diets during the moulting period (11 days), and body weight loss and ovary weight regression were measured. Post-moult production parameters (number of eggs produced per hen per day, egg weight, shell weight, yolk colour and Haugh unit) were measured for 12 weeks. Results showed that all dietary sources were as effective as feed withdrawal in causing ovary weight regression in birds. Birds provided with tomato pomace or alfalfa showed lower weight losses than feed-deprived birds at the end of the moulting period. Hens moulted by tomato pomace or alfalfa exhibited post-moult levels of egg production over a 12 week period that were superior to those of hens moulted by feed withdrawal. Post-moult eggs laid by hens moulted by all dietary sources were of comparable quality to eggs from feed-deprived hens and superior to those from unmoulted hens. As fibrous feeds with low metabolisable energy and an appreciable amount of protein, dried tomato pomace and alfalfa meal may be fed to hens on an ad libitum basis for effective moult induction while reducing the stress of severe starvation and retaining comparable egg quality and production. Copyright © 2007 Society of Chemical Industry.
20836164	Transglutaminase (TG) is a transferase that has been used for crosslinking proteins. In general, those interactions are promoted within proteins of the same nature, and very few studies have been conducted for creating new bonds between proteins from different sources catalysed by TG. The effect of TG on the protein fractions of rice flour, pea protein isolate and their blends was studied by using different electrophoretic analyses (simple sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and multistaking SDS-PAGE under reducing and non-reducing conditions). TG induced the disappearance of numerous protein bands as a consequence of the formation of large protein polymers, linked by isopeptidic and disulfide bonds, with reduced solubility. The main protein fractions involved in those interactions were the albumins and globulins, from the pea protein isolate, and the rice flour; and the glutelins were also crosslinked. Composite flours containing the rice flour and the pea protein isolate are proposed for obtaining a protein-enriched dough with better amino acid balance. Also a protein network formed of protein aggregates of high molecular weight can be created in the presence of transglutaminase. Copyright © 2007 Society of Chemical Industry.
20836801	In the United States, Bayou virus (BAYV) ranks second only to Sin Nombre virus (SNV) in terms of hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) incidents, having been confirmed in cases from Texas and Louisiana since its discovery in 1994. This study on BAYV infection among sympatric, non-oryzomyine rodents ("spillover") in Freeport, TX, is the first to link patterns of hantavirus interspecific spillover with the spatiotemporal ecology of the primary host (marsh rice rat, Oryzomys palustris). Mark-recapture and/or harvest methods were employed from March 2002 through May 2004 in two macrohabitat types. Rodent blood samples were screened for the presence of IgG antibody to BAYV antigen by IFA after which Ab-positive blood, saliva, and urine were analyzed for the presence of viral RNA by nested RT-PCR. From 727 non-oryzomyine captures, five seropositive (but not viral RNA positive) individuals were detected: one each of Baiomys taylori, Peromyscus leucopus, and Reithrodontomys fulvescens; and two Sigmodon hispidus. Spillover hosts were not associated with macrohabitat where O. palustris abundance, density, or seroprevalence was highest. Rather, spillover occurred in the macrohabitat indicative of greater overall disturbance (as indicated by grazing and exotic plant diversity) and overall biodiversity. Spillover occurred during periods of high seroprevalence detected elsewhere within the study region. Spillover locations differed significantly from all other capture locations in terms of percent water, shrub, and grass cover. Although greater habitat and mammal diversity of old-fields may serve to reduce seroprevalence levels by tempering intraspecific contacts between rice rats, greater diversity also may create an ecologically opportunistic setting for BAYV spillover. Impacts of varying levels of disturbance and biodiversity on transmission dynamics represent a vastly uncharacterized component of the evolutionary ecology of hantaviruses.
20837064	A reverse-transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay was established for the detection of nine viruses from infected rice plants, including rice black-streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV), rice dwarf virus (RDV), rice gall dwarf virus (RGDV), rice ragged stunt virus (RRSV), rice transitory yellowing virus (RTYV), rice stripe virus (RSV), rice grassy stunt virus (RGSV), rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV), and rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV). Virus-specific primer sets were designed from the genome sequences of these viruses. By the combination of RNA rapid extraction and RT-LAMP, these nine viruses could be detected within 2h from infected rice plants. The sensitivities of the assays were either higher than (for RSV, RTBV, and RTYV) or similar (for RDV) to those of one-step RT-PCR. Furthermore, RTBV and RTSV were detected not only in infected rice plants but also in viruliferous insect vectors. The RT-LAMP assays may facilitate studies on rice disease epidemiology, outbreak surveillance, and molecular pathology.
20838445	Previously, cell type-specific expression of AtHKT1;1, a sodium transporter, improved sodium (Na(+)) exclusion and salinity tolerance in Arabidopsis. In the current work, AtHKT1;1, was expressed specifically in the root cortical and epidermal cells of an Arabidopsis GAL4-GFP enhancer trap line. These transgenic plants were found to have significantly improved Na(+) exclusion under conditions of salinity stress. The feasibility of a similar biotechnological approach in crop plants was explored using a GAL4-GFP enhancer trap rice line to drive expression of AtHKT1;1 specifically in the root cortex. Compared with the background GAL4-GFP line, the rice plants expressing AtHKT1;1 had a higher fresh weight under salinity stress, which was related to a lower concentration of Na(+) in the shoots. The root-to-shoot transport of (22)Na(+) was also decreased and was correlated with an upregulation of OsHKT1;5, the native transporter responsible for Na(+) retrieval from the transpiration stream. Interestingly, in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing AtHKT1;1 in the cortex and epidermis, the native AtHKT1;1 gene responsible for Na(+) retrieval from the transpiration stream, was also upregulated. Extra Na(+) retrieved from the xylem was stored in the outer root cells and was correlated with a significant increase in expression of the vacuolar pyrophosphatases (in Arabidopsis and rice) the activity of which would be necessary to move the additional stored Na(+) into the vacuoles of these cells. This work presents an important step in the development of abiotic stress tolerance in crop plants via targeted changes in mineral transport.
20838584	The interaction between phytohormones is an important mechanism which controls growth and developmental processes in plants. Deciphering these interactions is a crucial step in helping to develop crops with enhanced yield and resistance to environmental stresses. Controlling the expression level of OsAP2-39 which includes an APETALA 2 (AP2) domain leads to phenotypic changes in rice. Overexpression of OsAP2-39 leads to a reduction in yield by decreasing the biomass and the number of seeds in the transgenic rice lines. Global transcriptome analysis of the OsAP2-39 overexpression transgenic rice revealed the upregulation of a key abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthetic gene OsNCED-I which codes for 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase and leads to an increase in the endogenous ABA level. In addition to OsNCED-1, the gene expression analysis revealed the upregulation of a gene that codes for the Elongation of Upper most Internode (EUI) protein, an enzyme that catalyzes 16α, 17-epoxidation of non-13-hydroxylated GAs, which has been shown to deactivate gibberellins (GAs) in rice. The exogenous application of GA restores the wild-type phenotype in the transgenic line and ABA application induces the expression of EUI and suppresses the expression of OsAP2-39 in the wild-type line. These observations clarify the antagonistic relationship between ABA and GA and illustrate a mechanism that leads to homeostasis of these hormones. In vivo and in vitro analysis showed that the expression of both OsNCED-1 and EUI are directly controlled by OsAP2-39. Together, these results reveal a novel mechanism for the control of the ABA/GA balance in rice which is regulated by OsAP2-39 that in turn regulates plant growth and seed production.
20838758	The OsGW2 gene is involved in rice grain development, influencing grain width and weight. Its ortholog in wheat, TaGW2, was considered as a candidate gene related to grain development. We found that TaGW2 is constitutively expressed, with three orthologs expressing simultaneously. The coding sequence (CDS) of TaGW2 is 1,275 bp encoding a protein with 424 amino acids, and has a functional domain shared with OsGW2. No divergence was detected within the CDS sequences in the same locus in ten varieties. Genome-specific primers were designed based on the sequence divergence of the promoter regions in the three orthologous genes, and TaGW2 was located in homologous group 6 chromosomes through CS nulli-tetrasomic (NT). Two SNPs were detected in the promoter region of TaGW2-6A, forming two haplotypes: Hap-6A-A (-593A and -739G) and Hap-6A-G (-593G and -769A). A cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) marker was developed based on the -593 A-G polymorphism to distinguish the two haplotypes in TaGW2-6A. This gene was fine mapped 0.6 cM from marker cfd80.2 near the centromere in a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population. Two hundred sixty-five Chinese wheat varieties were genotyped and association analysis revealed that Hap-6A-A was significantly associated with wider grains and higher one-thousand grain weight (TGW) in two crop seasons. qRT-PCR revealed a negative relationship between TaGW2 expression level and grain width. The Hap-6A-A frequencies in Chinese varieties released at different periods showed that it had been strongly positively selected in breeding. In landraces, Hap-6A-A is mainly distributed in southern Chinese wheat regions. Association analysis also indicated that Hap-6A-A not only increased TGW by more than 3 g, but also had earlier heading and maturity. In contrast to Chinese varieties, Hap-6A-G was the predominant haplotype in European varieties; Hap-6A-A was mainly present in varieties released in the former Yugoslavia, Italy, Bulgaria, Hungary and Portugal.
20839269	Reactions of the hydroxyl radical with propene and 1-butene are studied experimentally in the gas phase in a continuous supersonic flow reactor over the range 50≤T/K≤224. OH radicals are produced by pulsed laser photolysis of H(2)O(2) at 266 nm in the supersonic flow and followed by laser-induced fluorescence in the (1, 0) A(2)Σ(+)←X(2)Π(3/2) band at about 282 nm. These reactions are found to exhibit negative temperature dependences over the entire temperature range investigated, varying between (3.1-19.2) and (4.2-28.6)×10(-11) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) for the reactions of OH with propene and 1-butene, respectively. Quantum chemical calculations of the potential energy surfaces are used as the basis for energy- and rotationally resolved Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations to determine the rate constants over a range of temperatures and pressures. The negative temperature dependences of the rate constants are explained by competition between complex redissociation and passage to the adducts by using a model with two transition states. The results are compared and contrasted with earlier studies and discussed in terms of their potential relevance to the atmosphere of Saturn.
20839391	Rice-based diets may have been reported to protect against the development of atherosclerosis; however, the underlying mechanism(s) for this protection remains unknown. In this report, the mechanism(s) contributing to the atheroprotective effects of rice-based diet was addressed using the apolipoprotein E knockout (apoE-/-) mice fed rice protein isolate (RPI) or casein (CAS). Reduced atherosclerotic lesions were observed in aortic sinus and enface analyses of the descending aorta in RPI-fed apoE-/- mice compared with CAS-fed mice. Plasma total- and HDL-cholesterol levels were not different amongst the two groups, suggesting alternative mechanism(s) could have contributed to the atheroprotective effect of rice-based diets. Plasma oxLDL and anti-oxLDL IgG levels were significantly decreased in RPI-fed compared to CAS-fed animals. Plasma and aortic tissue GSH levels and GSH:GSSG ratio were higher in RPI-fed mice compared to CAS-fed group. Interestingly, RPI feeding increased mRNA and protein expression of superoxide dismutase, and mRNA expression of catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase, key antioxidant enzymes implicated inhibiting oxidative stress leading to atherosclerosis. In conclusion, these findings suggest that the reduction in atherosclerotic lesions observed in mice fed the rice-based diet is mediated in part by inhibiting oxidative stress and subsequent oxLDL generation that could result in reduced foam cell formation, an early event during atherogenesis.
20839801	The present study was performed to understand the effects of high temperature (HT) during filling on the expression of storage proteins and the quality of rice grains. HT (35/30 °C day/night) reduced the weight, amylose content, and flour gel consistency of grains. It increased the accumulation of all classes of storage proteins at early filling stage but decreased the accumulation of prolamins at maturation. For albumins, the expressions of cyclophilin 2, peroxiredoxin, and HSP16.9 were differentially enhanced by HT. For globulins, HT decreased the accumulation of globulin but increased that of glyoxalase I and peroxiredoxin. HT enhanced the transcription of genes for glutelins, prolamins, globulins, and protein disulfide isomerase at early filling stage but decreased the expression of these genes at a later stage. Low amounts of prolamins and globulins, as well as low pH value, were found in sound, immature, and dead kernels grown under HT. The relationships among HT, storage proteins, and grain quality are discussed.
20839936	Fusarium head blight (FHB) is primarily caused by Fusarium graminearum in North America. Isolates of F. graminearum can be identified as one of three chemotypes: 3-acetyl-deoxynivalenol (3ADON), 15-acetyl-deoxynivalenol (15ADON), and nivalenol (NIV). In this study, we characterized F. graminearum isolates collected in 1980 to 2000 (old collection) and in 2008 (new collection) from North Dakota and found a 15-fold increase of 3ADON isolates in the new collection. Evaluation of randomly selected 3ADON isolates and 15ADON isolates on three spring wheat genotypes (Grandin, Steele-ND, and ND 2710) by single-floret inoculation indicated that the 3ADON population caused a higher disease severity and produced more DON at a significant level than the 15ADON population on Grandin (susceptible to FHB) and ND 2710 (with FHB resistance from Sumai 3). However, no significant differences in disease severity and DON production were observed between the two populations on Steele-ND (with moderate resistance from Triticum dicoccoides). The 3ADON isolates also exhibited a higher DON production in rice culture and produced more spores on agar media than the 15ADON isolates, suggesting a fitness advantage of the newly emerging 3ADON population over the prevalent 15ADON population. Population genetic analyses using DNA markers revealed a significant genetic differentiation between the two populations. The information obtained in this study could have an impact on development of FHB-resistant wheat cultivars and disease management.
20839964	Sheath blight caused by Rhizoctonia solani (teleomorph: Thanatephorus cucumeris) is a major cause of crop loss in intensive rice production systems. No economically viable control methods have been developed. We screened aqueous extracts of common herbal plants that could reduce sheath blight lesions and found that foliar spraying and seed soaking application of extracts of either fresh or dried leaves of Chromolaena odorata gave up to 68% reduction in sheath blight lesion lengths under controlled and semi-field conditions. The observed reductions were not dependent on growth conditions of C. odorata and rice cultivar. The effect was observed until 21 days after inoculation and was not dependent on microbial activity. Under semi-field conditions, extracts also reduced severity of other important rice diseases, i.e., blast (Pyricularia oryzae) using foliar spray (up to 45%), brown spot (Bipolaris oryzae) using seed treatment (up to 57%), and bacterial blight (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae) using both application methods (up to 50%).
2084011	The drinking habits of 86 men with adenomatous polyps of the sigmoid colon were compared to those of 1184 men with normal colonoscopy among middle-aged male self-defence officials. After adjustment for rank, smoking history and rice consumption, total ethanol intake was positively associated with the risk of adenomatous polyps. The odds ratio (OR) was 2.4 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.0-5.5) for men consuming at least 60 ml of ethanol per day. Among five alcoholic beverages (shochu, beer, sake, whiskey and wine), both sake and beer showed a dose-response relationship with the risk of adenomatous polyps although the association with beer was less striking. Shochu was the largest source of ethanol intake in the study population, but there was virtually no association between shochu consumption and adenomatous polyps. Men drinking wine had a significantly increased risk, but these men were too few to examine the relation in detail. The findings suggest that the consumption of specific alcoholic beverages rather than ethanol itself is associated with an increased risk of adenomatous polyps of the sigmoid colon.
20840506	• The cadmium (Cd) over-accumulating rice (Oryza sativa) cv Cho-Ko-Koku was previously shown to have an enhanced rate of root-to-shoot Cd translocation. This trait is controlled by a single recessive allele located at qCdT7. • In this study, using positional cloning and transgenic strategies, heavy metal ATPase 3 (OsHMA3) was identified as the gene that controls root-to-shoot Cd translocation rates. The subcellular localization and Cd-transporting activity of the gene products were also investigated. • The allele of OsHMA3 that confers high root-to-shoot Cd translocation rates (OsHMA3mc) encodes a defective P(1B) -ATPase transporter. OsHMA3 fused to green fluorescent protein was localized to vacuolar membranes in plants and yeast. An OsHMA3 transgene complemented Cd sensitivity in a yeast mutant that lacks the ability to transport Cd into vacuoles. By contrast, OsHMA3mc did not complement the Cd sensitivity of this yeast mutant, indicating that the OsHMA3mc transport function was lost. • We propose that the root cell cytoplasm of Cd-overaccumulating rice plants has more Cd available for loading into the xylem as a result of the lack of OsHMA3-mediated transportation of Cd to the vacuoles. This defect results in Cd translocation to the shoots in higher concentrations. These data demonstrate the importance of vacuolar sequestration for Cd accumulation in rice.
20840510	• In order to gain insights into the transport and distribution of arsenic (As) in intact rice (Oryza sativa) plants and its unloading into the rice grain, we investigated the spatial distribution of As and the temporal variation of As concentration in whole rice plants at different growth stages. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that such a study has been performed. • Inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-ICP-MS were used to analyze total As concentration and speciation. Moreover, synchrotron-based X-ray fluorescence (SXRF) was used to investigate in situ As distribution in the leaf, internode, node and grain. • Total As concentrations of vegetative tissues increased during the 2 wk after flowering. The concentration of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) in the caryopsis decreased progressively with its development, whereas inorganic As concentration remained stable. The ratios of As content between neighboring leaves or between neighboring internodes were c. 0.6. SXRF revealed As accumulation in the center of the caryopsis during its early development and then in the ovular vascular trace. • These results indicate that there are different controls on the unloading of inorganic As and DMA; the latter accumulated mainly in the caryopsis before flowering, whereas inorganic As was mainly transported into the caryopsis during grain filling. Moreover, nodes appeared to serve as a check-point in As distribution in rice shoots.
20840555	1. Shifts in the body size of insular vertebrates have been an interesting theme in ecological and evolutionary studies. Four primary factors, including predation pressures, resource availability, inter-species competition and immigrant selection, have been proposed to explain the trend in insular body size. Life-history theory predicts that body size, average age, the proportion of old-aged members and the density of insular populations are negatively correlated with predator species richness, and that body size and population density are positively related to resource availability. The niche expansion hypothesis argues that a positive relationship is expected to exist between insular body size and prey size, which varies in response to extinction due to small or large competitors. The immigrant hypothesis predicts that insular body size is positively correlated with distance to the mainland. 2. We tested these hypotheses by using populations of rice frogs Rana limnocharis on 20 islands in the Zhoushan Archipelago and two sites of nearby mainland China. 3. The body size (snout-vent length) of rice frogs on half of the islands was larger before and after the variable of age was controlled for; rice frog density and prey availability was higher and prey size was larger on most of the islands as compared to the two mainland sites. On the islands, the body size and other features [e.g. average age, the proportion of old-aged frogs (ages 3 and 4) and density] of the rice frogs were negatively associated with predator species richness; female body size and other features were positively associated with prey availability. The inference of multivariate linear models based on corrected Akaike Information Criterion (AIC(c)) showed that the relative importance of predator species richness on body size and each of the other features was larger than that of prey availability, prey size and distance to the mainland. In addition, the parameters for predator species richness were all negative. 4. The results provided strong support for the life-history theory of predation pressures, but weak evidence for the life-history theory of prey availability, the niche expansion or the immigrant hypothesis. The reduced predator species richness was a dominant factor contributing to the body gigantism of rice frogs on the islands.
20842403	The evolution of five chromosomes of Brachypodium distachyon from a 12-chromosome ancestor of all grasses by dysploidy raises an interesting question about the fate of redundant centromeres. Three independent but complementary approaches were pursued to study centromeric region homologies among the chromosomes of Brachypodium, wheat, and rice. The genes present in pericentromeres of the basic set of seven chromosomes of wheat and the Triticeae, and the 80 rice centromeric genes spanning the CENH3 binding domain of centromeres 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 were used as "anchor" markers to identify centromere locations in the B. distachyon chromosomes. A total of 53 B. distachyon bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones anchored by wheat pericentromeric expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were used as probes for BAC-fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of B. distachyon mitotic chromosomes. Integrated sequence alignment and BAC-FISH data were used to determine the approximate positions of active and inactive centromeres in the five B. distachyon chromosomes. The following syntenic relationships of the centromeres for Brachypodium (Bd), rice (R), and wheat (W) were evident: Bd1-R6, Bd2-R5-W1, Bd3-R10, Bd4-R11-W4, and Bd5-R4. Six rice centromeres syntenic to five wheat centromeres were inactive in Brachypodium chromosomes. The conservation of centromere gene synteny among several sets of homologous centromeres of three species indicates that active genes can persist in ancient centromeres with more than 40 million years of shared evolutionary history. Annotation of a BAC contig spanning an inactive centromere in chromosome Bd3 which is syntenic to rice Cen8 and W7 pericentromeres, along with BAC FISH data from inactive centromeres revealed that the centromere inactivation was accompanied by the loss of centromeric retrotransposons and turnover of centromere-specific satellites during Bd chromosome evolution.
20842699	2,4-D, dicamba and 4-CPA with auxin-like activity have been intensively used in agriculture, for the control of unwanted broadleaf weeds. An analytical method involving HPLC coupled with UVD was developed for the simultaneous analysis of these three analytes in Chinese cabbage, apple and pepper fruits (representative non-fatty samples) and brown rice and soybean (representative fatty samples) using liquid-liquid partitioning and column cleanup procedures. The residues were confirmed via tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) in ion electrospray ionization (ESI) mode. The standard curves were linear over the range of the tested concentrations (0.25-10 microg/mL), as shown by a marked linearity in excess of 0.9999 (r(2)). The average recoveries (mean, n = 3) ranged from 94.30 to 102.63 in Chinese cabbage, from 94.76 to 108.47 in apple, from 97.52 to 102.27 in pepper, from 76.19 to 101.90 in brown rice, and from 74.60 to 107.39 in soybean. The relative standard deviations (RSDs) were <9% in all tested matrices. The limits of detection and quantitation were 0.006 and 0.02 mg/kg, respectively. Samples purchased from local markets were analyzed to evaluate the applicability of the methods developed herein. The concentration of the 2,4-D residue was measured at 0.102 mg/kg in the soybean sample; however, this level is exactly the same MRL set by the Korea Food and Drug Administration. This developed method deserves full and complete consideration, as it clearly displays the sensitivity, accuracy and precision required for residue analysis of 2,4-D, dicamba and 4-CPA in food crops.
20845182	The aim of this study was to investigate the bacterial communities on paclobutrazol [(2RS, 3RS)-1-(4-Chlorophenyl)-4, 4-dimethyl-2-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl) pentan-3-ol]-applied agricultural soils by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplified 16S rDNA gene fragments. Three different agricultural soil samples were collected from paclobutrazol applied mango and waxapple orchards, peanut fields and untreated rice fields as a control for DGGE analysis. The DGGE pattern of PCR- generated 16S rDNA gene fragments indicated that the bacterial populations from four paclobutrazol-applied soils of peanut fields were closely related to each other and two paclobutrazol-applied soils of mango and waxapple orchards harbored closely related bacterial communities. But, paclobutrazol-free agricultural soils comprised relatively a different bacterial group. However, the bacterial populations of mango and waxapple orchard are completely different from the bacterial communities of peanut field. Further purification and sequence analysis of 40 DGGE bands followed by phylogenetic tree assay showed similar results that soil bacteria from paclobutrazol applied mango and waxapple orchard are phylogenetically related. Based on the phylogenetic analysis, the clone M-4 was clad 100 % (bootstrap value) with Mycobacterium sp. The Mycobacterium sp. has been proved to degrade the phenolic compounds such as phenol, 4-chlorphenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol and paclobutrazol molecule containing chlorobenzene ring.
20849332	Bronze drinking vessels famous for their intricate carvings and used by the aristocracy in the Chinese Shang dynasty (1555-1145 BCE) are known to have been fabricated with alloys containing soft metallic lead. The contribution of lead leaching from such vessels into the fermented grain wines drunk by the Chinese nobility in ancient times has not been previously estimated. Three bronze vessels containing 8% lead by weight were fabricated to resemble the late Shang bronze goblets. Shaoxing drinking rice wine was purchased locally and placed in the vessels, using a white grape wine and water as comparisons. Sampling was performed at baseline, 2 min, and then at days 1, 2, 4, and 7. Lead concentrations in the liquid matrix were measured using atomic absorption spectroscopy. Significant amounts of lead leached into the liquid within one day: 13,900 μg/L in water, 45,900 μg/L in rice wine, and 116,000 μg/L in white wine. Lead continued to leach into both the grape and rice wines with the passage of time. Significant lead contamination of Shaoxing rice wine was detected when it was left in bronze goblets fabricated to resemble the Shang dynasty vessels. If a liter of contaminated wine was drunk daily, the daily intake of lead could have been as high as 85 mg. Such a high degree of contamination could cause chronic lead poisoning, affecting the health of the Shang nobility who used bronze beverage containers, before lead was excluded from the manufacture of bronze.
20849392	This study is aiming at characterizing antifungal substances from the methanol extract of Prunella vulgaris and at investigating those substances' antifungal and antioomycete activities against various plant pathogens. Two polyacetylenic acids were isolated from P. vulgaris as active principles and identified as octadeca-9,11,13-triynoic acid and trans-octadec-13-ene-9,11-diynoic acid. These two compounds inhibited the growth of Magnaporthe oryzae, Rhizoctonia solani, Phytophthora infestans, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. raphani, and Phytophthora capsici. In addition, these two compounds and the wettable powder-type formulation of an n-hexane fraction of P. vulgaris significantly suppressed the development of rice blast, tomato late blight, wheat leaf rust, and red pepper anthracnose. These data show that the extract of P. vulgaris and two polyacetylenic acids possess antifungal and antioomycete activities against a broad spectrum of tested plant pathogens. This is the first report on the occurrence of octadeca-9,11,13-triynoic acid and trans-octadec-13-ene-9,11-diynoic acid in P. vulgaris and their efficacy against plant diseases. The crude extract containing the two polyacetylenic acids can be used as a natural fungicide for the control of various plant diseases.
20849575	Partial resistance to plant pathogens is extensively used in breeding programs since it could contribute to resistance durability. Partial resistance often builds up during plant development and confers quantitative and usually broad-spectrum resistance. However, very little is known on the mechanisms underlying partial resistance. Partial resistance is often explained by poorly effective induction of plant defense systems. By exploring rice natural diversity, we asked whether expression of defense systems before infection could explain partial resistance towards the major fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae. The constitutive expression of 21 defense-related genes belonging to the defense system was monitored in 23 randomly sampled rice cultivars for which partial resistance was measured. We identified a strong correlation between the expression of defense-related genes before infection and partial resistance. Only a weak correlation was found between the induction of defense genes and partial resistance. Increasing constitutive expression of defense-related genes also correlated with the establishment of partial resistance during plant development. Some rice genetic sub-groups displayed a particular pattern of constitutive expression, suggesting a strong natural polymorphism for constitutive expression of defense. Constitutive levels of hormones like salicylic acid and ethylene cannot explain constitutive expression of defense. We could identify an area of the genome that contributes to explain both preformed defense and partial resistance. These results indicate that constitutive expression of defense-related genes is likely responsible for a large part of partial resistance in rice. The finding of this preformed defense system should help guide future breeding programs and open the possibility to identify the molecular mechanisms behind partial resistance.
20849820	Biochemical studies revealed that the novel rice plant-specific kinesin K16 has several unique enzymatic characteristics as compared to conventional kinesins. The ADP-free form of K16 is very stable, whereas the ADP-free form of conventional kinesins is labile. In the present study, the crystal structure of the novel rice kinesin motor domain (K16MD) complexed with Mg-ADP was determined at 2.4 Å resolutions. The overall structure of K16MD is similar to that of conventional kinesin motor domains, as expected from the high amino acid sequence similarity (43.2%). However, several unique structures in K16 were observed. The position and length of the L5, L11, and L12 loops, which are key functional regions, were different from those observed in conventional kinesins. Moreover, the neck-linker region of the ADP-bound K16MD showed an ordered conformation at a position quite different from that previously observed in conventional kinesins. These structural differences may reflect the unique enzymatic characteristics of rice kinesin K16.
20850003	Chlorfenapyr is a pyrrole insecticide with a unique non-neurological mode of action. Laboratory bioassays of chlorfenapyr comparing the mortality of pyrethroid-susceptible and -resistant Anopheles gambiae s.s. and Culex quinquefasciatus mosquitoes indicated that operational cross-resistance is unlikely to occur (resistance ratio ranged between 0 and 2.1). Three trials of chlorfenapyr indoor residual spraying were undertaken in experimental huts in an area of rice irrigation in northern Tanzania that supports breeding of A. arabiensis. Daily mosquito collections were undertaken to assess product performance primarily in terms of mortality. In the second trial, 250mg/m(2) and 500mg/m(2) chlorfenapyr were tested for residual efficacy over 6 months. Both dosages killed 54% of C. quinquefasciatus, whilst for A. arabiensis 250mg/m(2) killed 48% compared with 41% for 500mg/m(2); mortality was as high at the end of the trial as at the beginning. In the third trial, 250mg/m(2) chlorfenapyr was compared with the pyrethroid alpha-cypermethrin dosed at 30mg/m(2). Chlorfenapyr performance was equivalent to the pyrethroid against A. arabiensis, with both insecticides killing 50% of mosquitoes. Chlorfenapyr killed a significantly higher proportion of pyrethroid-resistant C. quinquefasciatus (56%) compared with alpha-cypermethrin (17%). Chlorfenapyr has the potential to be an important addition to the limited arsenal of public health insecticides for indoor residual control of A. arabiensis and pyrethroid-resistant species of mosquito.
20850333	Senescence is the final stage of development in plant tissues. In the senescence process, many senescence-associated genes (SAGs) are reportedly transcriptionally up-regulated. Here, we reported the isolation of nine wheat SAG cDNA clones named TaSAG1 to TaSAG9, and evaluated the usefulness of the SAG homologs for wheat developmental molecular markers based on their expression patterns. The nine wheat SAGs were identified in wheat EST libraries based on their homology to rice SAGs. All wheat SAG transcripts were up-regulated during natural senescence as well as during dark-induced senescence in seedling leaves. However, the expression patterns of wheat SAGs in the flag leaf did not necessarily correspond to those in seedling leaves during senescence. The nine wheat SAGs also showed variable expression patterns in developing and ripening seeds. The transcript accumulation patterns of TaSAG5 and TaSAG6 increased linearly during the period examined in the flag leaf and seed, and are therefore available as molecular markers to respectively evaluate the degree of wheat flag leaf senescence and seed maturation. Transcript accumulation levels of the six SAGs were increased before apparent necrotic cell death of seeding leaves exhibiting wheat hybrid necrosis. These results suggested that necrotic cell death in wheat hybrid necrosis could be closely related not only to senescence but also to defense responses.
20851039	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are important plant growth hormones that largely rely on transcription factors (TFs) to regulate a variety of plant physiological/developmental processes. Past genetic and biochemical studies have identified two key TFs and interacting partners that play major roles in regulating many BR-responsive genes, while genome-wide microarray experiments have discovered at least 50 BR-regulated TFs. However, little is known how these TFs function or whether additional TFs are involved in BR signaling. In the past few years, genetic studies and yeast one/two-hybrid screens coupled with microarray and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments not only revealed new roles of the key regulatory TFs but also implicated additional TFs and other nuclear proteins in regulating the nuclear activities of BR signaling in Arabidopsis and rice.
20851311	The affordability of food is considered as an important factor influencing people's diet and hence health status. The objective of this cross-sectional study was to test the hypothesis that neighborhood food store availability is associated with some aspects of dietary intake and thus possibly with body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference in young Japanese women. Subjects were 989 female Japanese dietetic students 18 to 22 years of age. Neighborhood food store availability was defined as the number of food stores within a 0.5-mile (0.8-km) radius of residence (meat stores, fish stores, fruit and vegetable stores, confectionery stores/bakeries, rice stores, convenience stores, and supermarkets/grocery stores). Dietary intake was estimated using a validated, comprehensive self-administered diet history questionnaire. No association was seen between any measure of neighborhood food store availability and dietary intake, except for a positive association between confectionery and bread availability (based on confectionery stores/bakeries, convenience stores, and supermarkets/grocery stores) and intake of these items (P for trend = .02). Further, no association was seen for BMI or waist circumference, except for an inverse relationship between availability of convenience stores and BMI and a positive relationship between store availability for meat (meat stores and supermarkets/grocery stores) and fish (fish stores and supermarkets/grocery stores) and waist circumference. In conclusion, this study of young Japanese women found no meaningful association between neighborhood food store availability and dietary intake, BMI, or waist circumference, with the exception of a positive relationship between availability and intake for confectionery and bread.
20851403	Through a seed-mediated growth route, Pt nanoparticles (NPs) with tunable shape and size were prepared, such as octahedral, cuboctahedral, branched and rice-like. Three nanometer Pt NPs were prepared and dispersed in oleyl amine to form seed solution and then Pt precursor (platinum acetylacetonate (Pt(acac)(2))) was added. Under high temperature, oleyl amine as both reducing and protective agents can reduce Pt precursor to Pt atoms which selectively deposit on seeds surface to form variously structured Pt NPs. By adjusting the reactive conditions (the molar ratio of Pt metals from Pt(acac)(2) and seed (PPS), the seed diameter, the addition route of Pt(acac)(2)), the NPs growth could be controlled to fall into kinetic or thermodynamic regime, producing variously shaped NPs. On the basis of observed results, a reaction mechanism in which the resulting NP shape had strong dependence on c/s (c=precursor concentration, s=available deposition surface area) was figured out. The obtained NPs were supported on black carbon to act as Pt/C catalysts for oxidization of methanol and results show that the catalysts from branched NPs had higher catalytic activity and stability than ones from polyhedral NPs.
20851598	In the present work, a new route for preparation of high-performance porous carbons under mild conditions was reported. The high surface area (2700 m2/g) and large pore volume (1.98 cm3/g) porous carbons were prepared from hydrochars by conventional phosphoric acid activation method. The hydrochars described here can be obtained from sulfuric acid hydrolysis of rice husk via dehydration, polymerization and carbonization. A specific capacitance of 130 F g(-1) was achieved by using the porous carbon, indicating that the porous carbon prepared by this route has good electrochemical performance. Furthermore, the localized graphitic nature of the porous carbon was proved by X-ray diffraction pattern.
20851757	Sweetpotato (Ipomoea batatas) ranks as the seventh most important staple crop in the world and the fifth in developing countries after rice, wheat, maize and cassava. Sweetpotato is mainly grown in developing countries, which account for more than 95% of total production of the whole world. Genetic resources, including cultivated varieties and wild species, are a prerequisite for novel sweetpotato breeding in both conventional and genetic engineering programs. Various cryopreservation protocols have been developed for shoot tips and embryogenic tissues. The former explants are preferred for long-term conservation of sweetpotato genetic resources, while the latter are valuable for sweetpotato genetic improvement. This review provides update comprehensive information on cryopreservation of sweetpotato shoot tips and embryogenic tissues. Plant pathogens such as viruses and phytoplasma severely hamper high yield and high quality production of sweetpotato. Thus, usage of pathogen-free planting materials is pivotal for sustainable sweetpotato production. Cryotherapy of shoot tips can efficiently eradicate sweetpotato pathogens such as viruses and phytoplasma. The mechanism behind pathogen eradication by cryotherapy of shoot tips has been elucidated. Pathogen eradication by cryotherapy provides an alternative, efficient strategy for production of pathogen-free plants. In addition, cryopreserved tissues may also be considered to be safer for exchange of germplasm between countries and regions.
20852017	Pathogen effectors are virulence factors causing plant diseases. How the host targets of these effectors facilitate pathogen infection is largely unknown. An effector of Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae (Xoo) transcriptionally activates rice (Oryza sativa) susceptibility gene Xa13 to cause bacterial blight disease. Xa13 encodes an indispensable plasma membrane protein of the MtN3/saliva family, which is prevalent in eukaryotes with unknown biochemical function. We show that the XA13 protein cooperates with two other proteins, COPT1 and COPT5, to promote removal of copper from xylem vessels, where Xoo multiplies and spreads to cause disease. Copper, an essential micronutrient of plants and an important element for a number of pesticides in agriculture, suppresses Xoo growth. Xoo strain PXO99 is more sensitive to copper than other strains; its infection of rice is associated with activation of XA13, COPT1, and COPT5, which modulate copper redistribution in rice. The involvement of XA13 in copper redistribution has led us to propose a mechanism of bacterial virulence.
20852018
20852032	Drought is a major limiting factor for crop production. To identify critical genes for drought resistance in rice (Oryza sativa), we screened T-DNA mutants and identified a drought-hypersensitive mutant, dsm2. The mutant phenotype was caused by a T-DNA insertion in a gene encoding a putative β-carotene hydroxylase (BCH). BCH is predicted for the biosynthesis of zeaxanthin, a carotenoid precursor of abscisic acid (ABA). The amounts of zeaxanthin and ABA were significantly reduced in two allelic dsm2 mutants after drought stress compared with the wild type. Under drought stress conditions, the mutant leaves lost water faster than the wild type and the photosynthesis rate, biomass, and grain yield were significantly reduced, whereas malondialdehyde level and stomata aperture were increased in the mutant. The mutant is also hypersensitive to oxidative stresses. The mutant had significantly lower maximal efficiency of photosystem II photochemistry and nonphotochemical quenching capacity than the wild type, indicating photoinhibition in photosystem II and decreased capacity for eliminating excess energy by thermal dissipation. Overexpression of DSM2 in rice resulted in significantly increased resistance to drought and oxidative stresses and increases of the xanthophylls and nonphotochemical quenching. Some stress-related ABA-responsive genes were up-regulated in the overexpression line. DSM2 is a chloroplast protein, and the response of DSM2 to environmental stimuli is distinctive from the other two BCH members in rice. We conclude that the DSM2 gene significantly contributes to control of the xanthophyll cycle and ABA synthesis, both of which play critical roles in the establishment of drought resistance in rice.
20853020	The increase in the number of chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients from the north central region of Sri Lanka has become a environmental health issue of national concern. Unlike in other countries where long-standing diabetes and hypertension are the leading causes of renal diseases, the majority of CKD patients from this part of Sri Lanka do not show any identifiable cause. As the disease is restricted to a remarkably specific geographical terrain, particularly in the north central dry zone of the country, multidisciplinary in-depth research studies are required to identify possible etiologies and risk factors. During this study, population screening in the prevalent region and outside the region, analysis of geoenvironmental and biochemical samples were carried out. Population screening that was carried out using a multistage sampling technique indicated that the point prevalence of CKD with uncertain etiology is about 2-3% among those above 18 years of age. Drinking water collected from high-prevalent and non-endemic regions was analyzed for their trace and ultratrace element contents, including the nephrotoxic heavy metals Cd and U using ICP-MS. The results indicate that the affected regions contain moderate to high levels of fluoride. The Cd contents in drinking water, rice from affected regions and urine from symptomatic and non-symptomatic patients were much lower indicating that Cd is not a contributing factor for CKD with uncertain etiology in Sri Lanka. Although no single geochemical parameter could be clearly and directly related to the CKD etiology on the basis of the elements determined during this study, it is very likely that the unique hydrogeochemistry of the drinking water is closely associated with the incidence of the disease.
20853107	We previously established an efficient Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system using primary calli derived from mature seeds of the model japonica rice variety Nipponbare. We expected that the shortened tissue culture period would reduce callus browning--a common problem with the indica transformation system during prolonged tissue culture in the undifferentiated state. In this study, we successfully applied our efficient transformation system to Kasalath--a model variety of indica rice. The Luc reporter system is sensitive enough to allow quantitative analysis of the competency of rice callus for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. We unexpectedly discovered that primary callus of Kasalath exhibits a remarkably high competency for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation compared to Nipponbare. Southern blot analysis and Luc luminescence showed that independent transformation events in primary callus of Kasalath occurred successfully at ca. tenfold higher frequency than in Nipponbare, and single copy T-DNA integration was observed in ~40% of these events. We also compared the competency of secondary callus of Nipponbare and Kasalath and again found superior competency in Kasalath, although the identification and subsequent observation of independent transformation events in secondary callus is difficult due to the vigorous growth of both transformed and non-transformed cells. An efficient transformation system in Kasalath could facilitate the identification of QTL genes, since many QTL genes are analyzed in a Nipponbare × Kasalath genetic background. The higher transformation competency of Kasalath could be a useful trait in the establishment of highly efficient systems involving new transformation technologies such as gene targeting.
20853202	There are many abandon and existing mines (tin, lead and zinc) in the mountainous areas of Thailand. Toxic elements including heavy metals such as lead (Pb), cadmium (Cd) and arsenic (As) have been released and transported from the mining sites to the adjacent landscape. In Thong Pha Phum District, Kanchanaburi Province, Thailand Pb contamination in the vicinity of the mine has occurred which could lead to potential health problems in downstream communities. To better understand current status of Pb contamination and accumulation in the surrounding environment and potential health impact, surface sediment, soil and plant samples were collected seasonally from representative monitoring sites along the aquatic track or flow regime. Potential health risk was determined using hazard quotient (HQ) as an index for local inhabitants who consume rice. Environmental monitoring illustrated that Pb concentrations in the surface sediment was as high as 869.4 mg kg(-1) dry weight and varied differently among stations sampled. Lead content in agricultural soil ranged between 137.8 to 613.5 mg kg(-1) dry weight and was inversely proportion to the distance from the point source. Moreover Pb was transported from the point source to down hill areas. At the highly polluted monitoring stations (S1, S2, and S3), concentrations of Pb exceeded the maximum allowable concentration for Pb in agricultural soil (300 mg kg(-1)) by 1.7-2 times. The Pb in soil was primarily associated with Fe/Mn oxides bound fraction (46-56%) followed by the organic bound fraction (25-30%). Lead uptake by plant varied and was species dependent. However root and tuber crops like cassava (19.92 mg Pb kg(-1) dry weight) and curcumin (3.25 mg Pb kg(-1) dry weight) could have removed Pb from the soil which suggest growing root crops in Pb contaminated soils should be avoided. However Cd, a co-contaminant at one of monitored stations (S4) yielded rice grain with Cd exceeding the maximum allowable concentration suggesting some potential health risk (HQ = 5.34) if people consume rice grown at this station. Overall result shows a low risk associated with Pb release into the environment.
20854666	Based on recent studies in Israel demonstrating that attractive toxic sugar bait (ATSB) methods can be used to decimate local anopheline and culicine mosquito populations, an important consideration is whether the same methods can be adapted and improved to attract and kill malaria vectors in Africa. The ATSB approach uses fruit or flower scent as an attractant, sugar solution as a feeding stimulant, and an oral toxin. The ATSB solutions are either sprayed on vegetation or suspended in simple bait stations, and the mosquitoes ingesting the toxic solutions are killed. As such, this approach targets sugar-feeding female and male mosquitoes. This study examines the attractiveness of African malaria vectors to local fruits/seedpods and flowering plants, key biological elements of the ATSB approach for mosquito control. Three field experiments were conducted at sites in Mali. The attraction of Anopheles gambiae s.l. to 26 different local fruits and seedpods was determined at a site in the semi-arid Bandiagara District of Mali. Wire mesh glue traps with fruits/seedpods suspended on skewers inside were set along a seasonal lagoon. Seven replicates of each fruit/seedpod species were tested, with a water-soaked sponge and a sugar-soaked sponge as controls. The attraction of An. gambiae s.l. to 26 different types of flowering plants was determined at a site near Mopti in Mali. The flowering plants held in a water-filled buried container were tested using the same glue traps, with controls including water only and sugar solution. Six replicates of each selected plant type were tested on transects between rice paddies. Additional studies using CDC light traps were done to determine the relative densities and periodicity of An. gambiae s.l. attraction to branches of the most highly attractive flowering plant, branches without flowers, human odor, and candescent light. Of the 26 fruits and seedpods tested, 6 were attractive to An. gambiae s.l. females and males, respectively. Guava (Psidium guajava) and honey melon (Cucumis melo) were the two most attractive fruits for both females and males. Of the 26 flowering plants tested, 9 were significantly attractive for females, and 8 were attractive for males. Acacia macrostachya was the most attractive flowering plant. Periodicity studies using this plant showed peaks of An. gambiae s.l. attraction between 1930 and 2200 h and 0400-0500 h, which differed considerably from the response to human odors, which expectedly peaked at around midnight. These field experiments in Mali highlight that female and male An. gambiae s.l. have pronounced differences in attraction for diverse types of indigenous fruits/seedpods and flowering plants. The identification of attractive fruits and seedpods shows that a variety of indigenous and locally abundant natural products could potentially be used as juices to make ATSB solution for mosquito control. As well, the simple methods used to identify the most attractive flowering plants provide valuable insights into the natural history of sugar feeding for An. gambiae s.l. These observations can be used to guide future strategies for employing ATSB methods for malaria vector control in Africa. They also provide a basis for subsequent chemical analysis and development of attractive baits for mosquito control.
20854720	To examine the adequacy and inadequacy of dietary patterns in pregnant women for which information is absolutely lacking. Diet was assessed by a validated, self-administered diet history questionnaire (DHQ). Dietary patterns were extracted from the intake of thirty-three food groups (g/4184 kJ (1000 kcal)), which were summarized from 147 foods assessed with the DHQ, by cluster analysis. Nutritional inadequacy for selected twenty nutrients in each dietary pattern was examined using the reference values given in the Dietary Reference Intakes (DRI) for Japanese as the temporal gold standard. Japan. Nine hundred and ninety-seven pregnant Japanese women aged 18-43 years. The three dietary patterns identified were labelled as 'meat and eggs' (n 423), 'wheat products' (n 371) and 'rice, fish and vegetables' (n 203). The 'rice, fish and vegetables' pattern characterized by high intake of rice, vegetables, potatoes, pulses, fruits, seaweed, fish and miso soup showed significantly the lowest prevalence of inadequate intake for fifteen nutrients and significantly the highest prevalence of inadequate sodium intake. In contrast, the 'wheat products' pattern characterized by high intake of bread, noodles, confectioneries and soft drinks showed the highest prevalence of inadequate intake for fourteen nutrients. The median number of nutrients not meeting the DRI as a marker of overall nutritional inadequacy was eight in the 'rice, fish and vegetables' pattern. It was significantly lower at ten in the 'meat and eggs' and eleven in the 'wheat products' patterns (P<0.001). In pregnant Japanese women, the dietary pattern high in rice, fish, vegetables, fruit and some others showed a better profile of nutritional adequacy except for sodium.
20855457	In many eukaryotes, spliceosomal introns are able to influence the level and site of gene expression. The mechanism of this Intron Mediated Enhancement (IME) has not yet been elucidated, but regulation of gene expression is likely to occur at several steps during and after transcription. Different introns have different intrinsic enhancing properties, but the determinants of these differences remain unknown. Recently, an algorithm called IMEter, which is able to predict the IME potential of introns without direct testing, has been proposed. A computer program was developed for Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa L.), but was only tested experimentally in Arabidopsis by measuring the enhancement effect on GUS expression of different introns inserted within otherwise identical plasmids. To test the IMEter potential in rice, a vector bearing the upstream regulatory sequence of a rice β-tubulin gene (OsTub6) fused to the GUS reporter gene was used. The enhancing intron interrupting the OsTub6 5'-UTR was precisely replaced by seven other introns carrying different features. GUS expression level in transiently transformed rice calli does not significantly correlate with the calculated IMEter score. It was also found that enhanced GUS expression was mainly due to a strong increase in the mRNA steady-state level and that mutations at the splice recognition sites almost completely abolished the enhancing effect. Splicing also appeared to be required for IME in Arabidopsis cell cultures, where failure of the OsTub6 5' region to drive high level gene expression could be rescued by replacing the poorly spliced rice intron with one from Arabidopsis.
20855628	The empirical regularities of behavioral economics, especially loss aversion, time inconsistency, other-regarding preferences, herd behavior, and framing of decisions, present significant challenges to traditional approaches to food security. The formation of price expectations, hoarding behavior, and welfare losses from highly unstable food prices all depends on these behavioral regularities. At least when they are driven by speculative bubbles, market prices for food staples (and especially for rice, the staple food of over 2 billion people) often lose their efficiency properties and the normative implications assigned by trade theory. Theoretical objections to government efforts to stabilize food prices, thus, have reduced saliency, although operational, financing, and implementation problems remain important, even critical. The experience of many Asian governments in stabilizing their rice prices over the past half century is drawn on in this paper to illuminate both the political mandates stemming from behavioral responses of citizens and operational problems facing efforts to stabilize food prices. Despite the theoretical problems with free markets, the institutional role of markets in economic development remains. All policy instruments must operate compatibly with prices in markets. During policy design, especially for policies designed to alter market prices, incentive structures need to be compatible with respect to both government capacity (bureaucratic and budgetary) and empirical behavior on the part of market participants who will respond to planned policy changes. A new theoretical underpinning to political economy analysis is needed that incorporates this behavioral perspective, with psychology, sociology, and anthropology all likely to make significant contributions.
20856808	The essential eukaryotic molecular chaperone Hsp90 operates with the help of different co-chaperones, which regulate its ATPase activity and serve as adaptors to recruit client proteins and other molecular chaperones, such as Hsp70, to the Hsp90 complex. Several Hsp90 and Hsp70 co-chaperones contain the tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain, which interacts with the highly conserved EEVD motif at the C-terminal ends of Hsp90 and Hsp70. The acidic side chains in EEVD interact with a subset of basic residues in the TPR binding pocket called a 'carboxylate clamp'. Since the carboxylate clamp residues are conserved in the TPR domains of known Hsp90/Hsp70 co-chaperones, we carried out an in silico search for TPR proteins in Arabidopsis and rice comprising of at least one three-motif TPR domain with conserved amino acid residues required for Hsp90/Hsp70 binding. This approach identified in Arabidopsis a total of 36 carboxylate clamp (CC)-TPR proteins, including 24 novel proteins, with potential to interact with Hsp90/Hsp70. The newly identified CC-TPR proteins in Arabidopsis and rice contain additional protein domains such as ankyrin, SET, octicosapeptide/Phox/Bem1p (Phox/PB1), DnaJ-like, thioredoxin, FBD and F-box, and protein kinase and U-box, indicating varied functions for these proteins. To provide proof-of-concept of the newly identified CC-TPR proteins for interaction with Hsp90, we demonstrated interaction of AtTPR1 and AtTPR2 with AtHsp90 in yeast two-hybrid and in vitro pull down assays. These findings indicate that the in silico approach used here successfully identified in a genome-wide context CC-TPR proteins with potential to interact with Hsp90/Hsp70, and further suggest that the Hsp90/Hsp70 system relies on TPR co-chaperones more than it was previously realized.
20857028	To describe the design of a Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) to be used in studies on food intake of adults from Cuiabá, Mato Grosso State, Brazil. A 24-hour dietary recall (24hR) was applied to a sub-sample of 104 men and women, randomly selected from a random population-based study sample. Based on the frequency of report and on the contribution to the intake of energy and nutrients in the 24hR, 81 food items and respective reference servings were selected to comprise the FFQ food list. Reference portions were defined based on the most reported portion sizes in the 24-hour dietary recalls. The FFQ list was associated to eight options of intake frequency. Sugar, coffee, beans, rice, beef, bread, and soda were cited by at least 50% of the interviewed group and the latter four foods were the ones that most contributed to energy intake. There were no differences among men and women related to the foods that provided most macro and micronutrients. The FFQ included the most relevant food items involved in the food habits of the adult population from Cuiabá, Mato Grosso. Once the validity and reproducibility of this tool are proven, it will be useful in epidemiologic and clinical investigations on the role of diet on disease development in the target population.
20857083	Wheat stem rust caused by Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici, can cause significant yield losses. To combat the disease, breeders have deployed resistance genes both individually and in combinations to increase resistance durability. A new race, TTKSK (Ug99), identified in Uganda in 1999 is virulent on most of the resistance genes currently deployed, and is rapidly spreading to other regions of the world. It is therefore important to identify, map, and deploy resistance genes that are still effective against TTKSK. One of these resistance genes, Sr13, was previously assigned to the long arm of chromosome 6A, but its precise map location was not known. In this study, the genome location of Sr13 was determined in four tetraploid wheat (T. turgidum ssp. durum) mapping populations involving the TTKSK resistant varieties Kronos, Kofa, Medora and Sceptre. Our results showed that resistance was linked to common molecular markers in all four populations, suggesting that these durum lines carry the same resistance gene. Based on its chromosome location and infection types against different races of stem rust, this gene is postulated to be Sr13. Sr13 was mapped within a 1.2-2.8 cM interval (depending on the mapping population) between EST markers CD926040 and BE471213, which corresponds to a 285-kb region in rice chromosome 2, and a 3.1-Mb region in Brachypodium chromosome 3. These maps will be the foundation for developing high-density maps, identifying diagnostic markers, and positional cloning of Sr13.
20857150	The effects of arsenite treatment on generation of reactive oxygen species, induction of oxidative stress, response of antioxidative system, and synthesis of phytochelatins were investigated in two indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) cvs. Malviya-36 and Pant-12 grown in sand cultures for a period of 5-20 days. Arsenite (As(2)O(3); 25 and 50 μM) treatment resulted in increased formation of superoxide anion (O (2) (.-)), elevated levels of H(2)O(2) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, showing enhanced lipid peroxidation. An enhanced level of ascorbate (AA) and glutathione (GSH) was observed irrespective of the variation in the level of dehydroascorbate (DHA) and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) which in turn influenced redox ratios AA/DHA and GSH/GSSG. With progressive arsenite treatment, synthesis of total acid soluble thiols and phytochelatins (PC) increased in the seedlings. Among antioxidative enzymes, the activities of superoxide dismutase (EC 1.15.1.1), catalase (EC 1.11.1.6), total ascorbate peroxidase (APX, EC 1.11.1.11), chloroplastic ascorbate peroxidase, guaiacol peroxidase (EC 1.11.1.7), monodehydroascorbate reductase (EC 1.6.5.4), and glutathione reductase (EC 1.6.4.2) increased in arsenite treated seedlings, while dehyroascorbate reductase (EC 1.8.5.1) activity declined initially during 5-10 days and increased thereafter. Results suggest that arsenite treatment causes oxidative stress in rice seedlings, increases the levels of many enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants, and induces synthesis of thiols and PCs, which may serve as important components in mitigating arsenite-induced oxidative damage.
20857724	Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenée (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) is a major pest in rice, Oryza sativa L. (Graminales: Poaceae), in Asia. The current study investigated the resistance of 17 rice varieties or lines to C. medinalis and behavioral responses of the insect to varieties of different corrected damage ratings (CDRs) and damaged leaves scales (DLSs). The results showed that most varieties (or lines) commonly cultured in rice production were susceptible (DLS 3 and 5) to damage caused by C. medinalis; Yangjing 9538, 91SP, and TN1 were the most susceptible (DLS 7 and 9). A significant positive correlation was observed between CDR and leaf width and chlorophyll content in rice leaves, whereas no significant correlations between resistance and plant height and leaf length were found. The number of eggs laid by C. medinalis adult females significantly increased with CDR. There was a significant difference in the number of eggs laid for varieties of different DLSs. The number laid on varieties of DLS 9 was 44.4, 134.5, and 466.7% greater than DLS 7, 5 and 3, respectively; the number laid on varieties of DLS 7 was 65.5% greater than DLS 5 and 300% greater than DLS 3; and the number laid on those of DLS 5 was 141.7% greater than DLS 3. Developmental duration (day) of larvae, the body length of fifth instar larvae and pupae weight also significantly increased with CDR. A significant difference of to excised leaves was also found among different DLSs with a higher proportion of both first and third instars settled on the leaves of high DLS. Dispersal experiments of larvae on excised leaves showed that the number of first instars that remained settled gradually increased with DLSs. These findings suggested that rice of higher DLS are more suitable for feeding and settling of larvae.
20857726	The Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), a key pest of sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) and rice, Oryza sativa L., in Texas, has not been controlled with chemical insecticides or biological agents, but some sugarcane varieties have shown degrees of resistance. Assessment of selected sugarcane leaf characteristics indicate that preference for oviposition sites is mostly determined by the presence of a leaf fold and secondarily by the availability of dry leaf tissue, both of which are antixenotic nonchemical stimuli. We suggest that breeding sugarcane lines bearing leaves that do not fold on drying could provide substantial antixenotic resistance against the Mexican rice borer. Previously identified antixenotic chemical stimuli, i.e., low quantities or absence of important nutrients in green leaf tissue, only become apparent when resistant and susceptible sugarcane varieties are compared. Varietal differences in oviposition preference, however, were not observed on excised dry leaf tissue, indicating that expression of resistance in terms of chemical stimuli requires detection of biochemicals in nearby living leaf tissue. Excised dry sugarcane leaves retain the two dominant nonchemical oviposition preference stimuli for Mexican rice borers, and the leaves effectively trapped eggs away from intact plants when dry leaves were used as "mulch" at the bottom of greenhouse cages. Under commercial sugarcane field conditions, bundled dry leaves also collected Mexican rice borer eggs. Possible applications of dry sugarcane leaf substrate for egg scouting and for trapping eggs are discussed.
20857756	The Asiatic rice borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), is one of the most destructive pests in rice, Oryza sativa L., throughout Asian countries. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential of applied silicon in mediating rice plant resistance to C. suppressalis in a susceptible (Shanyou63) and a moderately resistant (Yanfeng47) rice cultivar. Silicon-treated plants showed significant increases in silicon content compared with the control. Silicon addition significantly decreased borer penetration, weight gain, and stem damage, and it prolonged penetration duration and larval development; some of the effects were manifested more strongly in the susceptible rice cultivar compared with the moderately resistant cultivar. Therefore, silicon amendment may contribute to the suppression of C. suppressalis directly through reduced feeding damage and performance and indirectly through increased exposure time of young larvae to natural enemies and control measures.
20857760	Six transgenic rice, Oryza sativa L., lines (G6H1, G6H2, G6H3, G6H4, G6H5, and G6H6) expressing a fused Cry1Ab/Vip3H protein, were evaluated for resistance against the Asiatic rice borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), and the stem borer Sesamia inferens (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) in the laboratory and field. The bioassay results indicated that the mortality of Asiatic rice borer and S. inferens neonate larvae on six transgenic lines from seedling to filling stage was up to 100% at 168 h after infestation. The cumulative feeding area by Asiatic rice borer neonate larvae on all transgenic lines was significantly reduced compared with the untransformed parental 'Xiushui 110' rice. A 2-yr field evaluation showed that damage during the vegetative stage (deadheart) or during the reproductive stage (whitehead) caused by Asiatic rice borer and S. inferens for transgenic lines was much lower than the control. For three lines (G6H1, G6H2, and G6H6), no damage was found during the entire growing period. Estimation of fused Cry1Ab/Vip3H protein concentrations using PathoScreen kit for Bt-Cry1Ab/1Ac protein indicated that the expression levels of Cry1Ab protein both in main stems (within the average range of 0.006-0.073% of total soluble protein) and their flag leaves (within the average range of 0.001-0.038% of total soluble protein) were significantly different among six transgenic lines at different developmental stages. Both laboratory and field researches suggested that the transgenic rice lines have considerable potential for protecting rice from attack by both stem borers.
20858178	This review focuses on the efficacy and safety of effective herbal medicines in the management of hyperlipidemia in human. PubMed, Scopus, Google Scholar, Web of Science, and IranMedex databases were searched up to 11th May 2010. The search terms were "hyperlipidemia" and ("herbal medicine" or "medicine traditional", "extract plant") without narrowing or limiting search elements. All of the human studies on the effects of herbs with the key outcome of change in lipid profiles were included. Fifty three relevant clinical trials were reviewed for efficacy of plants. This study showed significant decrease in total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol after treatment with Daming capsule (DMC), chunghyul-dan, Glycyrrhiza glabra, garlic powder (Allicor), black tea, green tea, soy drink enriched with plant sterols, licorice, Satureja khuzestanica, Monascus purpureus Went rice, Fenugreek, Commiphora mukul (guggul), Achillea wilhelmsii C. Koch, Ningzhi capsule (NZC), cherry, compositie salviae dropping pill (CSDP), shanzha xiaozhi capsule, Ba-wei-wan (hachimijiogan), rhubarb stalk, Silybum marianum, Rheum Ribes and Jingmingdan granule (primrose oil). Conflicting data exist for red yeast rice, garlic and guggul. No significant adverse effect or mortality were observed except in studies with DMC, guggul, and Terminalia belerica, Terminalia chebula, Emblica officinalis, ginger, and garlic powder (Allium sativum). Amongst reviewed studies, 22 natural products were found effective in the treatment of hyperlipidemia that deserve further works to isolate and characterization of their constituents to reach novel therapeutic and more effective agents.
2085881	The definite structure and chemical stability of a new glucoside of L-ascorbic acid (AA) which was enzymatically glucosylated with rat intestinal and rice seed alpha-glucosidases were reported. The stability of this AA derivative in water under aerobic conditions was proved by its remarkable resistance against enhanced oxidative degradation by heat, Cu2+ ion or ascorbate oxidase, and it was found to have no reducing activity toward radicals. These properties were obviously distinguishable from those of AA. This glucoside was effectively hydrolyzed by alpha-glucosidases which possessed the ability to synthesize itself, resulting in the liberation of AA activity. The conjugate was composed of equimoles of AA and glucose. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra, mass spectra, pH profiles of ultraviolet spectra and pK(a) value of 3.10 supported the coupling of alpha-glucose to the 2-position of AA. From these results, its structure was assigned 2-O-alpha-D-glucopyranosyl-L-ascorbic acid, being distinct from 6-O-alpha-D-glucopyranosyl-L-ascorbic acid formed with Aspergillus niger alpha-glucosidase. These findings indicate that the 2-O-glucoside formed by regioselective transglucosylation withstands oxidative degradation even in aqueous solutions and it can be used as an available active AA source for multicomponent liquid products.
20858844	Magnaporthe oryzae causes rice blast, the most serious foliar fungal disease of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa). During hemibiotrophic leaf infection, the pathogen simultaneously combines biotrophic and necrotrophic growth. Here, we provide cytological and molecular evidence that, in contrast to leaf tissue infection, the fungus adopts a uniquely biotrophic infection strategy in roots for a prolonged period and spreads without causing a loss of host cell viability. Consistent with a biotrophic lifestyle, intracellularly growing hyphae of M. oryzae are surrounded by a plant-derived membrane. Global, temporal gene expression analysis used to monitor rice responses to progressive root infection revealed a rapid but transient induction of basal defense-related gene transcripts, indicating perception of the pathogen by the rice root. Early defense gene induction was followed by suppression at the onset of intracellular fungal growth, consistent with the biotrophic nature of root invasion. By contrast, during foliar infection, the vast majority of these transcripts continued to accumulate or increased in abundance. Furthermore, induction of necrotrophy-associated genes during early tissue penetration, previously observed in infected leaves, was not seen in roots. Collectively, our results not only report a global characterization of transcriptional root responses to a biotrophic fungal pathogen but also provide initial evidence for tissue-adapted fungal infection strategies.
20859
20861691	Alkylresorcinols are members of an extensive family of bioactive compounds referred to as phenolic lipids, which occur primarily in plants, fungi, and bacteria. In plants, alkylresorcinols and their derivatives are thought to serve important roles as phytoanticipins and allelochemicals, although direct evidence for this is still somewhat lacking. Specialized type III polyketide synthases (referred to as 'alkylresorcinol synthases'), which catalyze the formation of 5-alkylresorcinols using fatty acyl-CoA starter units and malonyl-CoA extender units, have been characterized from several microbial species, however until very recently little has been known concerning their plant counterparts. Through the use of sorghum and rice EST and genomic data sets, significant inroads have now been made in this regard. Here we provide additional information concerning our recent report on the identification and characterization of alkylresorcinol synthases from Sorghum bicolor and Oryza sativa, as well as a brief consideration of the emergence of this intriguing subfamily of enzymes.
2086208	We tested in the field an extruded rice flour, fortified with a bovine haemoglobin concentrate (Fe:14 mg/100 g of powder). This cereal has a high iron bioavailability, good protein quality and amino acid score. Healthy, term breast-fed infants were prospectively studied. One group (n = 92) received the fortified cereal (from 4 to 12 months of age). As control, 96 infants received regular solid foods (cooked vegetables and meat) from age 4 months. At the end of the field trial, a subsample of infants in both groups was supplemented with 45 mg Fe during 90 d. Iron nutrition status was determined at 9, 12 and 15 months. At 12 months, iron deficiency anaemia was present in 17 per cent of controls, in 10 per cent of fortified infants as a whole, but only in 6 per cent of the babies who consumed over 30 g of cereal/d. In addition, this latter group did not show any significant changes in iron nutrition status after the supplementation trial. Results demonstrate that the consumption of a haemoglobin fortified cereal is effective in markedly reducing the incidence of iron deficiency in breast-fed infants.
20862311	Rice NH1 (NPR1 homolog 1) is a key mediator of innate immunity. In both plants and animals, the innate immune response is often accompanied by rapid cell death at the site of pathogen infection. Over-expression of NH1 in rice results in resistance to the bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), constitutive expression of defense related genes and enhanced benzothiadiazole (BTH)- mediated cell death. Here we describe a forward genetic screen that identified a suppressor of NH1-mediated lesion formation and resistance, snl6. Comparative genome hybridization and fine mapping rapidly identified the genomic location of the Snl6 gene. Snl6 is a member of the cinnamoyl-CoA reductase (CCR)-like gene family. We show that Snl6 is required for NH1-mediated resistance to Xoo. Further, we show that Snl6 is required for pathogenesis-related gene expression. In contrast to previously described CCR family members, disruption of Snl6 does not result in an obvious morphologic phenotype. Snl6 mutants have reduced lignin content and increased sugar extractability, an important trait for the production of cellulosic biofuels. These results suggest the existence of a conserved group of CCR-like genes involved in the defense response, and with the potential to alter lignin content without affecting development.
20862321	A fundamental, but unanswered question in host-pathogen interactions is the timing, localization and population distribution of virulence gene expression during infection. Here, microarray and in situ single cell expression methods were used to study Vibrio cholerae growth and virulence gene expression during infection of the rabbit ligated ileal loop model of cholera. Genes encoding the toxin-coregulated pilus (TCP) and cholera toxin (CT) were powerfully expressed early in the infectious process in bacteria adjacent to epithelial surfaces. Increased growth was found to co-localize with virulence gene expression. Significant heterogeneity in the expression of tcpA, the repeating subunit of TCP, was observed late in the infectious process. The expression of tcpA, studied in single cells in a homogeneous medium, demonstrated unimodal induction of tcpA after addition of bicarbonate, a chemical inducer of virulence gene expression. Striking bifurcation of the population occurred during entry into stationary phase: one subpopulation continued to express tcpA, whereas the expression declined in the other subpopulation. ctxA, encoding the A subunit of CT, and toxT, encoding the proximal master regulator of virulence gene expression also exhibited the bifurcation phenotype. The bifurcation phenotype was found to be reversible, epigenetic and to persist after removal of bicarbonate, features consistent with bistable switches. The bistable switch requires the positive-feedback circuit controlling ToxT expression and formation of the CRP-cAMP complex during entry into stationary phase. Key features of this bistable switch also were demonstrated in vivo, where striking heterogeneity in tcpA expression was observed in luminal fluid in later stages of the infection. When this fluid was diluted into artificial seawater, bacterial aggregates continued to express tcpA for prolonged periods of time. The bistable control of virulence gene expression points to a mechanism that could generate a subpopulation of V. cholerae that continues to produce TCP and CT in the rice water stools of cholera patients.
20862364	Background. Carbohydrates have varied rates of digestion and absorption that induces different hormonal and metabolic responses in the body. Given the abundance of carbohydrate sources in the Philippines, the determination of the glycaemic index (GI) of local foods may prove beneficial in promoting health and decreasing the risk of diabetes in the country. Methods. The GI of Quality Protein Maize (QPM) grits, milled rice, and the mixture of these two food items were determined in ten female subjects. Using a randomized crossover design, the control bread and three test foods were given on separate occasions after an overnight fast. Blood samples were collected through finger prick at time intervals of 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 min and analyzed for glucose concentrations. Results. The computed incremental area under the glucose response curve (IAUC) varies significantly across test foods (P < .0379) with the pure QPM grits yielding the lowest IAUC relative to the control by 46.38. Resulting GI values of the test foods (bootstrapped) were 80.36 (SEM 14.24), 119.78 (SEM 18.81), and 93.17 (SEM 27.27) for pure QPM grits, milled rice, and rice-QPM grits mixture, respectively. Conclusion. Pure QPM corn grits has a lower glycaemic response compared to milled rice and the rice-corn grits mixture, which may be related in part to differences in their dietary fibre composition and physicochemical characteristics. Pure QPM corn grits may be a more health beneficial food for diabetic and hyperlipidemic individuals.
20862512	Nitrate uptake by rice coleoptiles was evaluated using ¹⁵N-nitrate in relation to the expression of high-affinity nitrate uptake-related genes, OsNRT2s (OsNRT2.1-2.4) and OsNAR2s (OsNAR2.1 and 2.2). Apparent nitrate uptake by coleoptiles was about one-sixth of that by hydroponically cultured seedling roots. Real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed that OsNRT2.1, a root-specific key gene of inducible high-affinity transport system for nitrate, was most strongly induced in coleoptiles following nitrate supply initiation, while other OsNRT2s and OsNAR2s showed modest induction. These results suggest that rice coleoptiles may have high-affinity transport systems for nitrate similar to roots, and can be model organs for nutrient uptake by submerged plant shoots.
20862524	This work aimed at studying variations on the diversity and composition of the bacterial community of a rice paddy field floodwater, subjected to conventional management, namely by using the herbicide molinate. The promotion of the herbicide biodegradation either by the autochthonous microbiota or by a bioaugmentation process was also assessed. This study comprehended four sampling campaigns at key dates of the farming procedures (seeding, immediately and 6 days after application of the herbicide molinate, and after synthetic fertilization) and the subsequent physic-chemical and microbiological characterization (pH, DOC and molinate contents, total cells, cultivable bacteria and DGGE profiling) of the samples. Multivariate analysis of the DGGE profiles showed temporal variations in the bacterial community structure and the Shannon's index values indicated that the bacterial diversity reached its minimum at the molinate application day. The highest bacterial diversity coincided with the periods with undetectable concentrations of the herbicide, although microcosm assays suggested that other factors than molinate may have been responsible for the decrease of the bacterial diversity. The ability of autochthonous microorganisms to degrade molinate and the influence of the herbicide on the bacterial community composition were assessed in microcosm assays using floodwater collected at the same dates. Given molinate was not degraded by autochthonous microorganisms, and considering it represents an environmental contaminant, bioaugmentation microcosms were assayed aiming the assessment of the feasibility of a bioremediation process to clean contaminated floodwater. A molinate-mineralizing culture, previously isolated, promoted molinate removal, induced alterations in the autochthonous bacterial community structure and diversity, and was undetected after 7 days of incubation, suggesting the feasibility of the process.
20863435	Cholera diarrhoea remains a major global health problem that has caused seven pandemics. The pathogenesis of cholera is attributable to the production of cholera toxin by the causative pathogen, Vibrio cholerae. The toxin causes increased production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and this results in massive water and electrolyte secretion into the intestinal lumen. These changes manifest clinically as the painless defecation of voluminous stools that resemble 'rice water', leading to severe dehydration. The cornerstone in the management of cholera diarrhoea is the use of oral rehydration solutions (ORS) to replace the water and electrolytes lost as stools. The World Health Organization recommends the use of ORS of 'reduced osmolarity' for the treatment of acute non-cholera diarrhoea and the use of rice-based ORS for the management of cholera diarrhoea. Although several attempts have been made to improve ORS, studies to evaluate some of the modifications, which include the addition of amylase-resistant starch, the use of amino acids (such as glycine, alanine and glutamine) as sodium cotransporters, and zinc-supplemented ORS, are still needed.
20863608	In this study, black rice husk ash (BRHA) from a rice mill in Thailand was ground and used as a partial cement replacement. The durability of conventional concretes with high water-binder ratios was investigated including drying shrinkage, autogenous shrinkage, depth of carbonation, and weight loss of concretes exposed to hydrochloric (HCl) and sulfuric (H(2)SO(4)) acid attacks. Two different replacement percentages of cement by BRHA, 20% and 40%, and three different water-binder ratios (0.6, 0.7 and 0.8) were used. The ratios of paste volume to void content of the compacted aggregate (γ) were 1.2, 1.4, and 1.6. As a result, when increasing the percentage replacement of BRHA, the drying shrinkage and depth of carbonation reaction of concretes increased. However, the BRHA provides a positive effect on the autogenous shrinkage and weight loss of concretes exposed to hydrochloric and sulfuric acid attacks. In addition, the resistance to acid attack was directly varied with the (SiO(2) + Al(2)O(3) + Fe(2)O(3))/CaO ratio. Results show that ground BRHA can be applied as a pozzolanic material and also improve the durability of concrete.
20864385	Photoperiodic control of flowering time consists of a complicated network that converges into the generation of a mobile flowering signal called florigen. Recent advances identifying the protein FT/Hd3a as the molecular nature responsible for florigen activity have focused current research on florigen genes as the important output of this complex signaling network. Rice is a model system for short-day plants and recent progress in elucidating the flowering network from rice and Arabidopsis, a long-day plant, provides an evolutionarily comparative view of the photoperiodic flowering pathway. This review summarizes photoperiodic flowering control in rice, including the interaction of complex layers of gene networks contributed from evolutionarily unique factors and the regulatory adaptation of conserved factors.
20864479	Gene order and content differ among homologous regions of closely related genomes. Similarities in the expression profiles of physically adjacent genes suggest that the proper functioning of these genes depends on maintaining a specific position relative to each other. To better understand the results of the interaction of these two genomic forces, convergent, divergent, and tandem gene pairs in rice and sorghum, as well as their homologs in rice, sorghum, maize, and Brachypodium were analyzed. The status of each pair in all four species: whether it was conserved, inverted, rearranged, or missing homologs was determined. We observed that divergent gene pairs had lower rates of conservation than convergent or tandem pairs, but higher rates of rearranged pairs and missing homologs in maize than in any other species. We also discovered species-specific gene pairs in rice and sorghum. In rice, gene pairs with strongly correlated expression levels were conserved significantly more often than those with little or no correlation. We assigned three types of gene pair to one of 14 possible evolutionary history categories to uncover their evolutionary dynamics during the evolution of grass genomes.
20864511	Pancreatic cancers generally respond poorly to chemotherapy, prompting a need to identify agents that could sensitize tumors to treatment. In this study, we investigated the response of human pancreatic cells to γ-tocotrienol (γ-T3), a novel, unsaturated form of vitamin E found in palm oil and rice bran oil, to determine whether it could potentiate the effects of gemcitabine, a standard of care in clinical treatment of pancreatic cancer. γ-T3 inhibited the in vitro proliferation of pancreatic cancer cell lines with variable p53 status and potentiated gemcitabine-induced apoptosis. These effects correlated with an inhibition of NF-κB activation by γ-T3 and a suppression of key cellular regulators including cyclin D1, c-Myc, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), Bcl-2, cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein, survivin, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), ICAM-1, and CXCR4. In an orthotopic nude mouse model of human pancreatic cancer, p.o. administration of γ-T3 inhibited tumor growth and enhanced the antitumor properties of gemcitabine. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated a correlation between tumor growth inhibition and reduced expression of Ki-67, COX-2, matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), NF-κB p65, and VEGF in the tissue. Combination treatment also downregulated NF-κB activity along with the NF-κB-regulated gene products, such as cyclin D1, c-Myc, VEGF, MMP-9, and CXCR4. Consistent with an enhancement of tumor apoptosis, caspase activation was observed in tumor tissues. Overall, our findings suggest that γ-T3 can inhibit the growth of human pancreatic tumors and sensitize them to gemcitabine by suppressing NF-κB-mediated inflammatory pathways linked to tumorigenesis.
20865320	Increased use of nitrogenous fertilizers in the intensively cultivated rice (Oryza sativa)-wheat (Triticum aestivum) cropping system (covers a 13.5-ha m area in South Asia) has led to the concentration of nitrates (NO(3)-N) in the groundwater (GW) in Haryana State of India. Six districts from the freshwater zone were selected to identify factors affecting NO(3)-N enrichment in GW. Water and soil samples were collected from 1,580 locations and analyzed for their chemical properties. About 3% (26,796, and 10,588 ha) of the area was estimated to be under moderately high (7.5-10 mg l(-1)) and high (>10 mg l(-1)) risk categories, respectively. The results revealed that NO(3)-N was 10-50% higher during the pre-monsoon season than in the monsoon season. Nitrate-N decreased with the increase in aquifer depth (r (2) = 0.99). Spatial and proximity analyses using ArcGIS (9.2) revealed that (1) clay material in surface and sub-surface texture restricts N leaching, (2) piedmont and rolling plains act as an N sink, and (3) perennial rivers bring a dilution effect whereas seasonal rivers provide favorable conditions for NO(3) (-) enrichment. The study concludes that chemical N fertilizers applied in agro-ecosystems are not the sole factor determining the NO(3) in groundwater; rather, it is an integrated process governed by several other factors including physical and chemical properties of soils, proximity and type of river, and geomorphologic and geographical aspects. Therefore, future studies should adopt larger area (at least watershed scale) to understand the mechanistic pathways of NO(3) enrichment in groundwater and interactive role of the natural drainage system and surrounding physical features. In addition, the study also presents a conceptual framework to describe the process of nitrate formation and leaching in piedmont plains and its transportation to the mid-plain zone.
20866042	Cereal starch granules with high-amylose and resistant starch (RS) always show irregular morphology and special crystalline structure, but their formation during grain development is not yet clear. In our previous studies, we had generated a transgenic rice line (TRS) enriched with amylose and RS, which contained semi-compound starch showing a C-type crystalline structure. In this study, the formation of semi-compound C-type starch granule during TRS endosperm development was carefully investigated with light, scanning electron, and transmission electron microscopes and X-ray powder diffraction. The results showed that the TRS starch subgranules, each with a central hilum, were individually initiated in amyloplast and showed an A-type crystal at the early stage of starch granule development, which was similar to that in its wild type. However, with the endosperm development, the amylose content in TRS endosperm starch increased and the B-type starch crystal was deposited in the periphery of subgranules; then, the adjacent subgranules fused together and finally formed a continuous outer layer band surrounding the entire circumference of the starch granule. Accordingly, a mechanistic model for the formation of semi-compound C-type starch granules is proposed.
20868281	From the first insect-resistant genetically modified (IRGM) rice transformation in 1989 in China to October 2009 when the Chinese Ministry of Agriculture issued biosafety certificates for commercial production of two cry1Ab/Ac Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) lines, China made a great leap forward from IRGM rice basic research to potential commercialization of the world's first IRGM rice. Research has been conducted on developing IRGM rice, assessing its environmental and food safety impacts, and evaluating its socioeconomic consequences. Laboratory and field tests have confirmed that these two Bt rice lines can provide effective and economic control of the lepidopteran complex on rice with less risk to the environment than present practices. Commercializing these Bt plants, while developing other GM plants that address the broader complex of insects and other pests, will need to be done within a comprehensive integrated pest management program to ensure the food security of China and the world.
20868730	Drugs that selectively inhibit the serotonin transporter (SERT) are widely prescribed for treatment of depression and a range of anxiety disorders. We studied the time course of changes in tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) in four raphe nuclei after initiation of two different SERT inhibitors, citalopram and fluoxetine. In the first experiment, groups of Sprague-Dawley rats received daily meals of rice pudding either alone (n=9) or mixed with citalopram 5 mg/kg/day (n=27). Rats were sacrificed after 24 h, 7 days or 28 days of treatment. Sections of dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), median raphe nucleus (MRN), raphe magnus nucleus (RMN) and caudal linear nucleus (CLN) were processed for TPH immunohistochemistry. Citalopram induced a significant reduction in DRN TPH-positive cell counts at 24 h (41%), 7 days (38%) and 28 days (52%). Similar reductions in TPH-positive cell counts were also observed at each timepoint in the MRN and in the RMN. In the MRN, citalopram resulted in significant reductions at 24 h (26%), 7 days (16%) and 28 days (23%). In the RMN, citalopram induced significant reductions of TPH-positive cell counts at 24 h (45%), 7 days (34%) and 28 days (43%). By contrast, no significant differences between control and treatment groups were observed in the CLN at any of the time points that we studied. To investigate whether these changes would occur with other SERT inhibitors, we conducted a second experiment, this time with a 28-day course of fluoxetine. As was observed with citalopram, fluoxetine induced significant reductions of TPH cell counts in the DRN (39%), MRN (38%) and RMN (41%), with no significant differences in the CLN. These results indicate that SERT inhibition can alter the regulation of TPH, the rate limiting enzyme for serotonin biosynthesis. This persistent and regionally specific downregulation of serotonin biosynthesis may account for some of the clinical withdrawal symptoms associated with drugs that inhibit SERT.
20869164	Copper(II) was considerably enriched in the residual ash via thermal treatment of copper-sorbed rice husk at 700-1100°C for 2h, and the copper speciation was quantitatively determined with X-ray absorption spectroscopy. After the thermal process, the resulting ash only represents by weight 18.7-26.4% of the pre-heated samples. Copper content in the ashes is >7% which is far above the required minimum copper content in copper ores for the copper smelting sector, 0.5%. Crystalline SiO(2) is observed only in the ash generated at 1100°C, with more copper in this ash being available for leaching in acidic solution. It is suggested that this is due to the considerable dissimilarity in crystalline structure between copper compounds and crystalline SiO(2). No chemical reaction between copper and SiO(2) is observed in any ash. In fact, we suggest that the SiO(2) crystalline phase repels copper during the thermal process; this would make it easy to extract copper from the ashes. For copper speciation in the ashes, CuO merely represents 0-12% of the total copper, while Cu(2)O and Cu(0) represent 34-42% and 46-63%, respectively. The lower copper oxidation state would be beneficial for the copper smelting process due to less usage of coke.
20869173	The use of rice husk ash (RHA) as an adsorbent for the adsorption of humic acids from water was studied. Optimum conditions for humic acids adsorption were found in batch method as follows, 60 min equilibrium time and initial in the range of pH 3-4. In addition, RHA was functionalized with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane. Again, the adsorption behavior of the modified rice husk ash (RHA-NH(2)) was studied. Optimum conditions for humic acids adsorption were found to be 30 min equilibrium time and initial pH in the range of 3-4. The adsorption capacity of RHA-NH(2) was higher than that of RHA. Experimental adsorption data fitted well with the Langmuir equation and the maximum adsorption capacity was 8.2mg/g. at pH 6. The column method was also performed. The comparative adsorption efficiencies of RHA-NH(2) and commercial activated carbons showed insignificant difference. The RHA-NH(2) adsorbent was applied for humic acids removal from surface water.
20869235	In this study, statistical design of experiments was employed to plan experiments and optimize the microwave-alkali pretreatment of rice straw and hulls. Process parameters important in pretreatment of biomass were identified by a Plackett-Burman design and the parameters with significant effects were optimized using a box-behnken design (BBD). Experimental results show that alkali concentration (AC), irradiation time (IT) and substrate concentration (SC) were main factors governing the saccharification of rice straw and hulls. Optimum conditions of pretreatment were AC 2.75%, IT 22.50 min and SC 30 g/L, as optimized by BBD. The growth and production of lignocellulolytic enzymes from Aspergillus heteromorphus, solid state fermentation (SSF) was performed using rice straw and hulls pretreated under optimum conditions. Cellulases and xylanase reached the highest enzyme activity at 6th day of fermentation while maximum manganese peroxidase (MnP) and laccase activity occurred at 12th day.
20869335	Monacolin K from red yeast rice was extracted by accelerated solvent extraction (ASE). The effects of various extraction parameters including extraction temperature, static extraction time and cycle index on yield were investigated using a DIONEX ASE 300 system to select the optimal conditions by an orthogonal test design L(9) (3)(3). The optimum extraction conditions were determined as follows: extraction temperature 120°C, static extraction time 7min, and cycle index 3. Under the optimal conditions, the yield of ASE extract and monacolin K was 5.35% and 9.26mg/g of dry red yeast rice, respectively. A separation and purification method of monacolin K was then established using high-speed counter-current chromatography (HSCCC) with a two-phase solvent system composed of n-hexane-ethyl acetate-methanol-water (8:2:5:5, v/v/v/v). From 300mg of crude extract, 51.2mg of monacolin K was obtained with the purity of 98.7%. The chemical structure of isolated compound was identified by UV, ESI-MS and (1)H NMR.
20869855	Setaria italica is commonly known as Foxtail millet. In India it is chiefly cultivated in Andhra Pradesh and Tamilnadu. It can be eaten as a sweet or savory food in all ways that rice is used. Due to the presence of high fiber content, it is suggested as a food for diabetic patients in India. To evaluate the antihyperglycemic and hypolipidemic potential of S. italica seeds in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. Anti hyperglycemic activity of different doses of S. italica seed aqueous extract (SISAE) was evaluated by oral administration of SISAE in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats and it was compared with that of Glibeclamide, a standard oral hypoglycemic agent. The effect of long-term treatment with 300mgofSISAE/kgb.w./day on blood glucose, glycemic control and serum lipids was evaluated in normal and diabetic rats. The dose of 300mg of SISAE/kgb.w. produced a significant fall (70%) in blood glucose in diabetic rats after 6h of administration of the extract. None of the doses of the SISAE could produce any change in blood glucose levels of normal rats. After 30 days of treatment with 300mgofSISAE/kgb.w./day there was a significant decrease in fasting blood glucose associated with a significant improvement in glycemic control as evidenced by lower levels of HbA1c in diabetic treated rats when compared to those in untreated diabetic rats The aqueous extract also exhibited significant hypolipidemic effect which is evident from lower levels of triglycerides, total, LDL and VLDL cholesterol and increase in the levels of HDL cholesterol in diabetic treated rats compared to those in diabetic untreated rats. The antihyperglycemic and hypolipidemic activities of the aqueous extract could be due to the presence of alkaloids or glycosides as active principles. These findings demonstrate that the aqueous extract of S. italica seeds have excellent antihyperglycemic and hypolipidemic activities and thus have great potential as a source for natural health products.
20870002	The main objectives of our study were (1) to compare several direct and indirect measures of liking and wanting for food and thereby (2) investigating the transfer effect of sensory specific satiety (SSS) for sweet and savory taste to other foods. We used a cross-over design whereby 61 healthy, unrestrained subjects (19M/42F), with a mean age of 21.9 (SD 3.1)y and a mean BMI of 21.7 (SD 1.5) kg/m² were offered a standardized amount of rice meal with either a sweet or savory taste. Afterwards, liking and wanting for 16 snack products, varying in taste (sweet/savory) and fat (high/low), were assessed. Method 1 assessed ad libitum intake, method 2 the willingness to work for access, and method 3 explicit and implicit responses to photographic food stimuli. All the methods used showed a similar pattern of results; after eating a preload with a certain taste, the liking and wanting of snacks with a similar taste were less than for snacks with a dissimilar taste. This transfer effect was not equipotent for sweet and savory tastes. It appears that in young, healthy adults, savory taste has a stronger modulating effect on subsequent food choice than sweet.
20870273	The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is significantly elevated in a Hispanic community in Bexar County, Texas. Chronic exposure to dietary aflatoxins (AFs) is a major risk factor for HCC; increased risk has been linked to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) co-exposure and hepatitis virus infection. The aims of this study were to assess AF and PAH exposures, investigate dietary factors that may contribute to increased AF exposure, and determine the prevalence of hepatitis virus infection in Bexar Co. Blood and urine samples were collected from 184 volunteers for biomarker analyses and hepatitis screening. Serum AFB(1)-lysine adduct, urinary AFM(1) and 1-hydroxypyrene (1-OHP) levels were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. The average AFB(1)-lysine adduct level detected in 20.6% of serums was 3.84 ± 3.11 pg/mg albumin (range 1.01-16.57 pg/mg). AFM(1) was detected in 11.7% of urines, averaging 223.85 ± 250.56 pg/mg creatinine (range 1.89-935.49 pg/mg). AFM(1) detection was associated with increased consumption of corn tortillas (p=0.009), nuts (p=0.033) and rice (p=0.037). A significant difference was observed between mean 1-OHP values of non-smokers (0.07 ± 0.13) and smokers (0.80 ± 0.68) μmol/mol creatinine (p<0.01). A high hepatitis C virus positivity rate (7.1%) was observed. Findings suggest that the incidence and level of AF and PAH exposure were less than those observed in a high-risk population; however, participants consuming higher amounts of foods prone to AF contamination may be more vulnerable to exposure and interactions with other environmental/biological factors (i.e., HCV).
20870593	Endophytic fungi of three tissues (petiole, bark and leaf) of Alstonia scholaris were assessed. A total number of 1,152 endophytic fungi were isolated from 1,002 different plant segments of seven different localities of Paschim Medinipur, West Bengal, India. The isolated fungi belong to nineteen genera, including four unidentified fungi and yeast. Colletotrichum sp. (20.39%) and Sordaria sp. (29.68%) were most commonly isolated from this plant. Hyalopus sp., Fusarium sp. and Curvularia sp. were also isolated. The colonization frequency of endophytic fungi is much higher in leaves (44.66%) in comparison to petioles (32.16%) and barks (23.17%). The study provided evidence for tissue specificity of endophytic fungi. The endophytic fungal species diversity was higher in plant segments collected from Gopegarh and Khoirullahchak, while diversity was the lowest in Rice mill area. Screenings of antimicrobial activity of these isolated endophytic fungi were done. Eight endophytic fungi showed antimicrobial activity. Among them Curvularia sp., Aspergillus sp. and one unidentified fungus showed maximum activity against test pathogens.
20870609	Great progresses have been made in understanding of both submergence tolerance in rice (Oryza sativa L.) and the molecular mechanism of tolerance over 4 years. Tolerance of rice plants to submergence is controlled by Submergence-1 (Sub1) locus. Sub1 regulates ethylene- and GA-mediated responsiveness, leading to restriction in carbohydrate consumption and quiescence in shoot elongation during submergence and subsequently causing submergence tolerance. This article reviewed two strategies adopted by rice plants to cope with flooding stress, major physiological factors affecting submergence tolerance, and physical mapping of Sub1 locus, as well as the mechanisms of submergence tolerance, and assessed the prospects of the use of Sub1 in hybrid rice production.
20870618	Membrane fusion in vesicle trafficking in the cells of eukaryotic organisms is mediated by soluble-N-ethyl- maleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins. OsNPSN11 is a member of Qb-SNARE gene family isolate from rice. The cDNA of OsNPSN11 was subcloned into pET-30a and fusion to the 6 × His tag. Induced by 0.5 mmol/L IPTG for four hours, the recombinant protein was highly expressed in Escherichia coli, which was purified by Ni2+ -NTA His-bind resin affinity chromatography column to be used as an antigen to raise the antibody in New Zealand rabbits. Western blotting analysis showed that the antibody can specifically recognize the expressed antigen and the OsNPSN11 in plasma membrane protein from various rice tissues. This indicated that the antibody can be used for expres-sion analysis in transgenic rice.
20870788	With the advent of molecular biological techniques, especially next-generation sequencing and metagenomics, the number of microbial biogeography studies is rapidly increasing. However, these studies involve the synthesis of data generated by different laboratories using different protocols, chemicals, etc., all with inherent biases. The aim of this study was to assess inter- as well as intralaboratory variations in microbial community composition when standardized protocols are applied to a single soil sample. Aliquots from a homogenized soil sample from a rice field in Italy were sent to five participating laboratories. DNA was extracted by two investigators per laboratory using an identical protocol. All DNA samples were sent to one laboratory to perform DNA quantification, quantitative PCR (QPCR), and microarray and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analyses of methanotrophic communities. Yields, as well as purity of DNA, were significantly different between laboratories but in some cases also between investigators within the same laboratory. The differences in yield and quality of the extracted DNA were reflected in QPCR, microarray, and DGGE analysis results. Diversity indices (Shannon-Wiener, evenness, and richness) differed significantly between laboratories. The observed differences have implications for every project in which microbial communities are compared in different habitats, even if assessed within the same laboratory. To be able to make sensible comparisons leading to valid conclusions, intralaboratory variation should be assessed. Standardization of DNA extraction protocols and possible use of internal standards in interlaboratory comparisons may help in rendering a "quantifiable" bias.
20871158	To determine the effect of Tanshinone IIA (TanIIA) on the phosphory-lated NMDA receptor 1 at Serine 897 site (phospho-NR1 S897) and intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) in neonatal SD rats with hypoxic ischemic brain damage (HIBD), and to explore the neuroprotective mechanism of TanIIA in HIBD. Neonatal SD rats were randomly divided into a normal control, and an HIBD and TanIIA+HIBD group. Rice-Vannucci method was used for HIBD animal model. Time points were: 3, 6, 12, and 24 h after HIBD (n=10 in each group at each time point). TanIIA was intraperitoneally given at 1 μg/g every 12 h. Fura-2AM was used to mark the fluorescent calcium probe and [Ca(2+)](i) was measured by a Hitachi F-4500 Fluorescence Spectrophometer. Fluorescent immunohisotichemical study was used for the expression of phospho-NR1 S897. (1) Compared with the normal control group, both the [Ca(2+)](i) absolute number and ipsi-/contra-lateral ratio were increased at each time point with statistical significance (P<0.05). Compared with the HIBD group, the [Ca(2+)](i) in the HIBD+ TanIIA group was decreased at each time point. At 24 h after HIBD, the ipsi-/contra-lateral ratio of HIBD+ TanIIA group was 24.9% less than that of HIBD group with statistical significance (P<0.05). (2) In the normal control group, abundant phospho-NR1 S897 positive cells were nicely distributed in the cortex. Compared with the normal control group, at each time point, both the absolute number of phospho-NR1 S897 positive cells and the fluorescent intensity of phospho-NR1 S897 in the ipsilateral cortex of the HIBD group were decreased with statistical significance (P<0.05). Compared with the HIBD group, both the absolute number of phospho-NR1 S897 positive cells and the fluorescent intensity of phospho-NR1 S897 in the ipsilateral cortex of HIBD+ TanIIA were increased. There was significant difference at 3 and 12 h after the HIBD (P<0.05). TanIIA reduced the HIBD-caused down-regulation of phospho-NR1 S897 and the HIBD-caused [Ca(2+)](i) elevation in the cortex. The neuroprotective effect of TanIIA may be related to influencing NMDA receptor expression and decreasing intracellular free calcium aggregation.
20872012	Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is a method of rapid and transient gene silencing in plants using viral vectors. A VIGS vector for gene silencing in rice has been developed from Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV), a rice-infecting virus containing DNA as the genetic material. A full-length RTBV DNA cloned as a partial dimer in a binary plasmid accumulated in rice plants when inoculated through Agrobacterium (agroinoculation) within 2 weeks and produced detectable levels of RTBV coat protein. Deletion of two of the four viral ORFs did not compromise the ability of the cloned RTBV DNA to accumulate in rice plants. To modify the cloned RTBV DNA as a VIGS vector (pRTBV-MVIGS), the tissue-specific RTBV promoter was replaced by the constitutively expressed maize ubiquitin promoter, sequences comprising the tRNA-binding site were incorporated to ensure reverse transcription-mediated replication, sequences to ensure optimal context for translation initiation of the viral genes were added and a multi-cloning site for the ease of cloning DNA fragments was included. The silencing ability of pRTBV-MVIGS was tested using the rice phytoene desaturase (pds) gene on rice. More than half of the agroinoculated rice plants showed white streaks in leaves within 21 days post-inoculation (dpi), which continued to appear in all emerging leaves till approximately 60-70 dpi. Compared to control samples, real-time PCR showed only 10-40% accumulation of pds transcripts in the leaves showing the streaks. This is the first report of the construction of a VIGS vector for rice which can be introduced by agroinoculation.
20872166	The 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidase gene (ACO1) was upregulated in rice (Oryza sativa L.) phyAphyBphyC mutants lacking any phytochrome and containing the GCC box element, a binding site for rice ethylene-responsive element binding protein 1 (OsEREBP1), in its promoter region. Since the OsEREBP1-like gene EBL1 (OsEREBP1-LIKE 1) was significantly downregulated in phyAphyBphyC mutants, EBL1 was suspected to repress ACO1 expression in wild-type plants. However, ACO1 was downregulated in EBL1 RNA interference plants, and the total length of these plants was slightly shorter than that of wild-type plants. This study shows that EBL1 is positively regulated by phytochrome B and associated with ACO1 upregulation.
20872210	The main objective of this study was to identify the genes causing etiolation in a rice mutant, the thylakoids of which were scattered. Three populations were employed to map the genes for etiolation using bulked segregant analysis. Genetic analysis confirmed that etiolation was controlled by two recessive genes, et11 and et12, which were fine mapped to an approximately 147-kb region and an approximately 209-kb region on the short arms of chromosomes 11 and 12, respectively. Both regions were within the duplicated segments on chromosomes 11 and 12. They possessed a highly similar sequence of 38 kb at the locations of a pair of duplicated genes with protein sequences very similar to that of HCF152 in Arabidopsis that are required for the processing of chloroplast RNA. These genes are likely the candidates for et11 and et12. Expression profiling was used to compare the expression patterns of paralogs in the duplicated segments. Expression profiling indicated that the duplicated segments had been undergone concerted evolution, and a large number of the paralogs within the duplicated segments were functionally redundant like et11 and et12.
20873182	Anopheles artemievi (a member of An. maculipennis complex species) described from the Transfergana region (South Kyrgyzstan) in 2004 was first found in the Lebap veloyat (Eastern Turkmenistan). A single larva of this species was collected together with An. superpictus in the irrigation channel of a rice field. Species affiliation has been proven by a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method. This species is to be included into a list of Anopheles species of Turkmenistan.
20873620	In order to quantify the effects of 27 years application of chemical fertilizers, pig manure, and rice straw on the reddish paddy soil quality in double rice cropping region, the indices of soil bulk density, porosity, maximum water holding capacity, normalized mean weight diameter, pH, cation exchange capacity, available nutrients, organic matter, microbial biomass C, enzyme activities, and rice yield were selected as the evaluation indicators, and classified into four functional groups, i. e., resistance to physical degradation, plant nutrients supply and storage, resistance to biochemical degradation, and sustaining of crop productivity. The soil quality index (SQI) was calculated based on the four functional groups. The results showed that the SQI ranged from 0.544 in treatment CK to 0.729 in treatment NPK plus rice straw. Treatments PK, NP, and NK induced soil degradation, compared to treatment NPK. The deficiencies of soil P and K were the main limiting factors for the double rice productivity in reddish paddy soil area. Even though 30 t x hm(-2) x a(-1) of pig manure and 4.2 t x hm(-2) x a(-1) of rice straw were applied, the soil P and K were still not adequate for the requirement of rice growth. There was no obvious effect of long-term application of lime on the reddish paddy soil quality. The combined application of NPK with organic manure was an important and effective measure in improving soil quality in double rice cropping regions of Southern China.
20873627	A field experiment with four rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars and different nitrogen application rates was conducted, with the dry matter accumulation (DMA) in the cultivars aboveground part measured at their main growth stages. The dynamic model of relative dry matter accumulation (RDMA) was established with the normalized DMA and TEP (product of thermal effectiveness and PAR) from emergence to maturity, and the temporal characteristics of DMA changes was quantitatively analyzed based on the RDMA model. The dynamic changes of the RDMA could be well described with Richards equation, i. e., RDMA = 1.0157/(1 +e(3.6329-7.5907xRTEP)) 1/0.5574 (r = 0.9938). The model was validated with independent field experiment datasets, involving different eco-sites, cultivars, and nitrogen application rates. The RMSE (root mean square error) between the simulated and observed values of DMA at varied RTEP was 0.86 t x hm(-2). According to the two inflexion points of dry matter accumulation rate equation, the whole process of dry matter accumulation could be divided into early, middle, and late phases. The maximum dry matter accumulation rate (AR(max)), relative TEP at AR(max), and relative dry matter accumulation at AR(max) were found to be 2.24, 0.56, and 0.46, respectively.
20873641	Taking the paddy fields planted with glutinous rice and hybrid rice in the traditional agricultural region in Congjiang County of Guizhou Province as the case, and by using semi-experiment combined with random sampling investigation, this paper studied the characteristics of weed community in the paddy fields under rice monoculture (R), rice-fish culture (R-F), and rice-fish-duck culture (R-F-D). Under the three rice farming systems, glutinous rice had higher capability in inhibiting weeds, compared with hybrid rice. Farming system R-F-D decreased the weed density significantly, with the control effect on Monochoia vaginalis and Rotala indica being 100%. The overall weed-inhibiting effect of R-F-D was significantly higher than that of the other farming systems. Under R-F-D, the species richness and Shannon diversity index of weed community decreased markedly, while the Pielou evenness index increased, indicating that the species composition of weed community changed greatly, and the occurrence of native dominant weed species decreased. It was concluded that R-F-D was a feasible farming system for the control of paddy field weed community.
20874228	The immunomodulatory activity of an organic extract of Phellinus linteus grown on slightly germinated brown rice (PBR) was previously demonstrated. Here, we investigated the possible anti-inflammatory activity of the PBR extract by analyzing its effect on the expression of macrophage-derived cytokines, chemokines, and mediator genes that participate in immune and inflammatory responses and diseases. The extract profoundly inhibited the induction of cytokines and chemokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand-10, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, and interleukin-6, in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW264.7 mouse macrophage cells. It also greatly inhibited LPS-stimulated production of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E(2) in RAW264.7 cells by suppressing the expression of inducible NO synthase and cyclooxygenase-2. PBR extract inhibited NO production with a twofold lower half-maximal inhibitory concentration value than P. linteus extract. To elucidate the underlying mechanism of action, we examined the effect of the PBR extract on the LPS-induced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in RAW264.7 cells. PBR extract greatly inhibited extracellular signal-regulated kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase phosphorylation and slightly inhibited p38 MAPK phosphorylation. It also significantly increased intracellular glutathione peroxidase activity and heme oxygenase-1 protein expression. Thus, the PBR extract has anti-inflammatory activity in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells by virtue of its ability to suppress the production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines via inhibition of MAPK activation and up-regulation of antioxidant activities.
20874390	Juvenile hormone (JH) plays key roles in both metamorphosis and adult reproductive processes. Farnesoic acid O-methyltransferase (FAMeT) is thought to be an important enzyme in the JH biosynthetic pathway, catalyzing methylation of farnesoic acid (FA) to methyl farnesoate (MF). A full-length cDNA (NlFAMeT) encoding a 299 amino acid putative FAMeT was isolated from the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stal) (Hemiptera: Geometroidea), a major rice pest in many parts of Asia. NlFAMeT showed high amino acid identities (52-54%) with other insect FAMeTs. Although the NlFAMeT transcript was expressed highly in corpus allatum (CA) and brain (without CA), no correlation was found between NlFAMeT transcript and JH titers. Although only a low level of NlFAMeT transcript was detected in the ovary, a high level was found in the abdomen and should be in one or more tissues undefined in the abdomen. Also, NlFAMeT transcript had a positive change during the vitellogenesis in female adults. These data indicated that NlFAMeT might not be a key enzyme in JH synthesis in N. lugens, but that it may play an important role in the ovary development. It might also be important in some unknown process in a so-far unidentified tissue in the abdomen.
20876334	Environmental stresses are major factors in limiting plant growth and crop production. To find genes improving salt tolerance, the screening of a large population of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana that expressed rice full-length cDNAs under salinity stress is reported here. In this study one of the isolated salt-tolerant lines, R07303 was analysed in detail. An uncharacterized rice gene CHLOROPLAST PROTEIN-ENHANCING STRESS TOLERANCE (OsCEST) was integrated in R07303. Newly constructed transgenic Arabidopsis that overexpressed OsCEST or its Arabidopsis homologue AtCEST showed improved tolerance to salinity stress. OsCEST and AtCEST were mainly transcribed in photosynthetic tissues. Green fluorescent protein-fused OsCEST and AtCEST proteins were localized to the chloroplast in the Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts. CEST-overexpressing Arabidopsis showed enhanced tolerance not only to salt stress but also to drought stress, high-temperature stress, and paraquat, which causes photooxidative stress. Under saline conditions, overexpression of CESTs modulated the stress-induced impairment of photosynthetic activity and the peroxidation of lipids. Reduced expression of AtCEST because of double-stranded RNA interference resulted in the impairment of photosynthetic activity, the reduction of green pigment, defects in chloroplast development, and growth retardation under light. This paper discusses the relationship between the chloroplast protein CEST and photooxidative damage.
20876569	YchF is a subfamily of the Obg family in the TRAFAC class of P-loop GTPases. The wide distribution of YchF homologues in both eukarya and bacteria suggests that they are descendents of an ancient protein, yet their physiological roles remain unclear. Using the OsYchF1-OsGAP1 pair from rice as the prototype, we provide evidence for the regulation of GTPase/ATPase activities and RNA binding capacity of a plant YchF (OsYchF1) by its regulatory protein (OsGAP1). The effects of OsGAP1 on the subcellular localization/cycling and physiological functions of OsYchF1 are also discussed. The finding that OsYchF1 and OsGAP1 are involved in plant defense response might shed light on the functional roles of YchF homologues in plants. This work suggests that during evolution, an ancestral P-loop GTPase/ATPase may acquire new regulation and function(s) by the evolution of a lineage-specific regulatory protein.
20876790	The comparison of the chromosome numbers of today's species with common reconstructed paleo-ancestors has led to intense speculation of how chromosomes have been rearranged over time in mammals. However, similar studies in plants with respect to genome evolution as well as molecular mechanisms leading to mosaic synteny blocks have been lacking due to relevant examples of evolutionary zooms from genomic sequences. Such studies require genomes of species that belong to the same family but are diverged to fall into different subfamilies. Our most important crops belong to the family of the grasses, where a number of genomes have now been sequenced. Based on detailed paleogenomics, using inference from n = 5-12 grass ancestral karyotypes (AGKs) in terms of gene content and order, we delineated sequence intervals comprising a complete set of junction break points of orthologous regions from rice, maize, sorghum, and Brachypodium genomes, representing three different subfamilies and different polyploidization events. By focusing on these sequence intervals, we could show that the chromosome number variation/reduction from the n = 12 common paleo-ancestor was driven by nonrandom centric double-strand break repair events. It appeared that the centromeric/telomeric illegitimate recombination between nonhomologous chromosomes led to nested chromosome fusions (NCFs) and synteny break points (SBPs). When intervals comprising NCFs were compared in their structure, we concluded that SBPs (1) were meiotic recombination hotspots, (2) corresponded to high sequence turnover loci through repeat invasion, and (3) might be considered as hotspots of evolutionary novelty that could act as a reservoir for producing adaptive phenotypes.
20877048
20877144	Ether lipids have biological applications which would dissipated as an important constituent in cell membranes. These are mostly found in animal tissues and rare in plant origin. Alk-1'-enyl ethers are class of ether lipid forming aldehydes on cleavage of ether bonds. The present study enrolled the presence of aldehyde in unsaponifiable matter of rice bran oil (RBO) and hence the identification of source of aldehydes in RBO was conducted. With respect to the earlier reports the investigation turned to major lipid constituents such as triacylglycerols, diacylglycerols etc. Using the column chomatographic method lipid fractions are separated, recolumned, purified and analyzed by spectrochemical methods such as FT-IR, (1)HNMR, (13)CNMR, Mass spectrometry and confirmed the presence of ether lipids. The sn-2 position was confirmed by enzymatic hydrolysis using pancreatic lipase. Moreover the formation of aldehyde from these ether lipids was also confirmed by spectrometric methods.
20877150	In this study, we investigated the antioxidant components of three types of colored rice bran--forbidden rice, red rice and green rice--obtained from rice in which the pigment layer had been removed at milling yields of 90%-100% and 80%-90%. An evaluation of the effects of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity revealed that rice bran obtained from forbidden rice at milling yields of 90%-100% and 80%-90% and rice bran obtained from red rice at milling yields of 90%-100% showed favorable antioxidant activity. The antioxidant components were confirmed to be 3,4-dihydroxy methyl benzoate and p-methoxyphenol and they influence the antioxidant activity of the three types of colored rice bran.
20877887	Eggshell membranes (ESMs) provide a unique, disulfide bond-rich surface. Thioglycolate reduction was used to generate thiol (-SH) groups on the ESM surface by S-S bond cleavage. The thiol-bearing ESMs (TESMs) were characterized by scanning electron microscopy and Raman spectroscopy. The fibrous network structure of the ESM is retained in the TESMs. TESMs adsorb both Se(IV) and Se(VI) but by different mechanisms: Se(VI) is retained reversibly, possibly via ionic interactions, while Se(IV) is reduced to Se(0) and deposited. We thus demonstrate speciation of selenium species, by using samples (a) as such and after prior oxidation to Se(VI), (b) preconcentration on a TESM microcolumn, (c) elution by 0.5 M HNO(3) that only elutes Se(VI) and (d) detection by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GFAAS). The Se(IV) amount is determined by difference. For a 1.0 mL sample, the enrichment factor was 17.2, the S/N = 3 detection limit was 0.06 μg L(-1) and the precision was 3.3% at 0.50 μg L(-1). The linear range was 0.25-2.50 μg L(-1). The procedure was validated by analyzing selenium in certified reference materials of human hair (GBW 09101) and rice (GBW 10010). We further demonstrate utility by speciation of inorganic selenium in a series of water samples.
20878142	Loss of function of duplicated genes plays an important role in the evolution of postzygotic reproductive isolation. The widespread occurrence of gene duplication followed by rapid loss of function of some of the duplicate gene copies suggests the independent evolution of loss-of-function alleles of duplicate genes in divergent lineages of speciation. Here, we found a novel loss-of-function allele of S27 in the Asian annual wild species Oryza nivara, designated S27-niv (s), that leads to F(1) pollen sterility in a cross between O. sativa and O. nivara. Genetic linkage analysis and complementation analysis demonstrated that S27-niv (s) lies at the same locus as the previously identified S27 locus and S27-niv (s) is a loss-of-function allele of S27. S27-niv (s) is composed of two tandem mitochondrial ribosomal protein L27 genes (mtRPL27a and mtRPL27b), both of which are inactive. The coding and promoter regions of S27-niv (s) showed a number of nucleotide differences from the functional S27-T65 (+) allele. The structure of S27-niv (s) is different from that of a previously identified null S27 allele, S27-glum (s), in the South American wild rice species O. glumaepatula, in which mtRPL27a and mtRPL27b are absent. These results show that the mechanisms for loss-of-function of S27-niv (s) and S27-glum (s) are different. Our results provide experimental evidence that different types of loss-of-function alleles are distributed in geographically and phylogenetically isolated species and represent a potential mechanism for postzygotic isolation in divergent species.
20878143	Mapping chromosome regions responsible for quantitative phenotypic variation in recombinant populations provides an effective means to characterize the genetic basis of complex traits. We conducted a quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis of 150 rice recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between two cultivars, Oryza sativa ssp. indica cv. 93-11 and Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare. The RILs were genotyped through next-generation sequencing, which accurately determined the recombination breakpoints and provided a new type of genetic markers, recombination bins, for QTL analysis. We detected 49 QTL with phenotypic effect ranging from 3.2 to 46.0% for 14 agronomics traits. Five QTL of relatively large effect (14.6-46.0%) were located on small genomic regions, where strong candidate genes were found. The analysis using sequencing-based genotyping thus offers a powerful solution to map QTL with high resolution. Moreover, the RILs developed in this study serve as an excellent system for mapping and studying genetic basis of agricultural and biological traits of rice.
20878325	An increase in the unspliced cox2 transcript and accompanying decrease in the frequency of RNA editing near the exon/intron junction (intron binding site 1, IBS1) have been reported in cold-treated wheat. Here, an attempt was made to clarify whether a similar phenomenon occurs in rice. Levels of unspliced cox2 transcript increased and its editing at the IBS was abolished after cold treatment. The accumulation of COXII protein remained unaffected. The accumulation of intron-containing transcripts of another eight mitochondrial genes, 23 introns in total, was analyzed by Northern blotting and semi-quantitative RT-PCR. An increase in 14 of the 23 intron-adjoining cDNA after cold treatment was observed. Six RNA editing sites in the IBS of four genes were tested as to their status by sequencing cDNA. One of these sites in the nad7 transcript showed a close association with splicing, with editing and splicing occurring simultaneously, irrespective of cold treatment. Two other sites in the intron-containing cox2 and rps3 transcripts were sensitive to cold, where editing frequency began to decrease 1 day after cold treatment, and finally exhibited a tight association with splicing 14 days later. The other sites were efficiently edited. The intron-spliced transcripts were fully edited at all six sites.
20878348	Seed germination is an important character for plant growth and seed quality. We identified a rice mutant that was delayed in its germination. There, T-DNA was inserted into Oryza sativa Delayed Seed Germination 1 (OsDSG1), causing a recessive null mutation. Overexpression of the gene enhanced seed germination. OsDSG1 is most similar to Arabidopsis AIP2, an E3 ligase targeting ABI3.Yeast two-hybrid experiments showed that our OsDSG1 binds to OsABI3, indicating that OsDSG1 is a rice ortholog of AIP2. Self-ubiquitination assay indicated that bacterially expressed OsDSG1 protein has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that OsDSG1 was expressed in leaves and roots, and strongly in developing seeds. In addition to the delayed-germination phenotype, mutant plants were shorter and had greater tolerance to high-salt and drought stresses. In the osdsg1 mutant, transcript levels of ABA signaling genes and ABA responsive genes were significantly increased. By contrast, expressions of OsGAMYB and its downstream genes that encode hydrolytic enzymes were markedly reduced. These observations support that OsDSG1 is a major regulator of ABA signaling in germinating seeds. Finally, we observed that the germination rates of various rice cultivars depended upon the transcript levels of OsDSG1 and other ABA-signaling genes.
20878470	On-farm study was conducted to determine the efficacy of thermostable Newcastle disease (ND) strain I-2 vaccine coated on oiled rice following oral vaccination of multi-age free ranging helmeted guinea fowls. The results from haemagglutination-inhibition assay showed that 7 days after the guinea fowls were orally vaccinated they seroconverted and attained the geometric mean antibody titre (GMT) of 4.9 log(2) (80%). This antibody titre was above the GMT of 3.0 log(2) which is regarded to be protective against field challenge of ND. Furthermore, the results revealed that 28 days after vaccination, the antibody levels reached GMT of 7.6 log(2) (100%). Moreover, all vaccinated guinea fowls survived the challenge of virulent ND virus whereas all unvaccinated chickens died of ND. The findings from the present study showed that the I-2 virus coated on the oiled rice is safe, immunogenic and provoked production of protective antibody response following oral vaccination of helmeted guinea fowls.
20878563	Butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) and tertiary butylhydroquinone (TBHQ) alone in cultural media were tested for the inhibition of growth and luteoskyrin production by two toxigenic strains ofPenicillium islandicum UST-11 andP. islandicum HLT-6. In potato dextrose agar, the concentrations of BHA and TBHQ from 0.2 mg/disc, BHT from 5.0 mg/disc did affect the growth of both tested strains, but the initial concentrations of these antioxidants to reduced luteoskyrin production by UST-11 strain were BHA 0.5 mg/disc, BHT 1.0 mg/disc and TBHQ 0.4 mg/disc, while for HLT-6, BHA 0.4 mg/disc, BHT and TBHQ were 0.2 mg/disc, respectively. In grainy and powdery rice media, the effects of BHA, BHT and TBHQ on luteoskyrin production byP. islandicum UST-11 and HLT-6 were clearly demonstrated. The efficiency of the inhibitory effect was not only closely related to the concentration of antioxidants, but also completely inhibited the luteoskyrin production at a concentration of 200 mg/kg or higher. Also, the antioxidants at a concentration higher than 20 mg/kg reduced significantly the growth and luteoskyrin production by both strains ofP. islandicum.
20879529	Six major rice varieties (Longdao 3, Kendao 12, Kongyu 131, Longdao 7, Longjing 16, and Songjing 6) in Heilongjiang Province were treated with low temperature 15 degrees C, 17 degrees C, and 19 degrees C for 2, 4, 6 and 8 days at booting stage, and the relationships between their empty grain rate per panicle and low temperature at booting stage were analyzed by using linear interpolation and linear regression methods. In the province, the critical temperature of sterile-type cool injury was 17 degrees C for sensitive varieties, and 16 degrees C for resistant varieties. The most sensitive period of rice to low temperature was 14-18 days before heading. At 15 degrees C for 8 days, the empty grain rate of Songjing 6 and Kendao 12 increased significantly, while that of Kongyu 131 increased less, suggesting that the cold tolerance of Songjing 6 and Kendao 12 was relatively weak, while Kongyu 131 was insensitive to low temperature. There was a significant correlation between the accumulated cool temperature and the empty grain rate of Kendao 12, Longjing 16, and Kongyu 131 (P<0.01). With the increase of accumulated cool temperature, the rice empty grain rate increased significantly, but the increment varied with rice variety.
20879534	In order to further understand the mechanisms of microbial immobilization of phosphorous (P) in highly weathered red soil with organic amendment, an incubation test was conducted to investigate the roles of microbial functional groups in the transformation of P in 0.2-2 mm soil aggregates. Throughout the 90-day incubation period, amendment with rice straw induced a substantial increase in the amounts of microbial biomass C and P, Olsen-P, and organic P in the aggregates. Comparing with rice straw amendment alone, the amendment with rice straw plus fungal inhibitor actidione decreased the amount of microbial biomass C in the aggregates by 10.5%-31.8% in the first 30 days. Such a decrement was significantly larger than that (6.8%-11.6%) in the treatment amended with rice straw plus bacterial inhibitors tetracycline and streptomycin sulphate (P<0.01). After the first 30 days, the microbial biomass C remained constant. In the first 20 days, the amount of microbial biomass P in the aggregates was 10.0%-28.8% higher in the treatment amended with bacterial inhibitors than in the treatment amended with fungal inhibitor (P<0.01). All the results suggested that that both the fungal and the bacterial groups were involved in the microbial immobilization of P in the soil aggregates, and the fungal group played a relatively larger role.
20879536	Based on the long-term (1982-2007) field experiment of "anthropogenic mellowing of raw soil" at the Qiyang red soil experimental station under Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, and by using numerical theory, this paper studied the variations of the fertility level of granite red soil, quaternary red soil, and purple sandy shale soil under six fertilization patterns. The fertilization patterns included non-fertilization (CK), straw-returning without fertilizers (CKR), chemical fertilization (NPK), NPK plus straw-return (NPKR), rice straw application (M), and M plus straw-return (MR). The soil integrated fertility index (IFI) was significantly positively correlated with relative crop yield, and could better indicate soil fertility level. The IFI values of the three soils all were in the order of NPK, NPKR > M, MR > CK, CKR, with the highest value in treatment NPKR (0.77, 0.71, and 0.71 for granite red soil, quaternary red soil, and purple sandy shale soil, respectively). Comparing with that in the treatments of no straw-return, the IFI value in the treatments of straw return was increased by 6.72%-18.83%. A turning point of the IFI for all the three soils was observed at about 7 years of anthropogenic mellowing, and the annual increasing rate of the IFI was in the sequence of purple sandy shale soil (0.016 a(-1)) > quaternary red clay soil (0.011 a(-1)) > granite red soil (0.006 a(-1)). It was suggested that a combined application of organic and chemical fertilizers and/or straw return could be an effective and fast measure to enhance the soil fertility level in red soil region.
20879839	Magnaporthe oryzae 2539 was previously found to be avirulent to most rice cultivars and, therefore, was assumed to carry many avirulence (AVR) genes. However, only one AVR gene, AVR1-CO39, which corresponds to a resistance (R) gene Pi-CO39(t) in rice cv. CO39, has been found from 2539 thus far. In order to identify more AVR genes, we isolated 228 progeny strains from a cross between 2539 and Guy11, an M. oryzae strain with strong virulence on rice, and inoculated these strains onto 23 rice accessions (22 individual cultivars and a mixture of 14 cultivars) that are all resistant to 2539 but susceptible to Guy11. Unexpectedly, the experimental results indicated that the avirulence of 2539 on these rice cultivars appeared to be controlled only by the AVR1-CO39 locus. Consistent with this result, we further found that all except one of the rice cultivars were resistant to two transformed Guy11 strains carrying a 1.05-kb fragment containing the AVR1-CO39 gene from 2539. These results suggest that AVR1-CO39 is a predominant locus controlling the broad avirulence of 2539 on cultivated rice. Based on the results of this study and other previous studies, we infer that AVR1-CO39 is a species-wise rather than a cultivar-wise host-specific AVR locus of M. oryzae for rice.
20879842	This study investigated how a defect in the active uptake of silicon (Si) affects rice resistance to brown spot. Plants from a rice mutant (low silicon 1 [lsi1]) and its wild-type counterpart (cv. Oochikara), growing in hydroponic culture with (+Si; 2 mM) or without (-Si) Si, were inoculated with Bipolaris oryzae. Si concentration in leaf tissue of cv. Oochikara and the lsi1 mutant increased by 381 and 263%, respectively, for the +Si treatment compared with the -Si treatment. The incubation period was 6 h longer in the presence of Si. The area under brown spot progress curve for plants from cv. Oochikara and the lsi1 mutant was reduced 81 and 50%, respectively, in the presence of Si. The reduced number of brown epidermal cells on leaves from cv. Oochikara and the lsi1 mutant supplied with Si contributed to the lower lipid peroxidation and electrolyte leakage. The concentration of total soluble phenolics in cv. Oochikara supplied with Si (values of 4.2 to 15.4 μg g(-1) fresh weight) was greater compared with plants not supplied with Si (values of 1.9 to 11.5 μg g(-1) fresh weight). The concentration of lignin was also important to the resistance of cv. Oochikara and the lsi1 mutant. Polyphenoloxidase activity did not contribute to the resistance of cv. Oochikara and the lsi1 mutant to brown spot, regardless of Si supply. Peroxidase and chitinase activities were higher in cv. Oochikara and the lsi1 mutant supplied with Si. These results bring novel evidence of the involvement of Si in a more complex defense mechanism than simply the formation of a physical barrier to avoid or delay fungal penetration.
20879845	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) conferring resistance to rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe oryzae, have been under-explored. In the present study, composite interval mapping was used to identify the QTLs that condition resistance to the 6 out of the 12 common races (IB1, IB45, IB49, IB54, IC17, and ID1) of M. oryzae using a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from a cross of the moderately susceptible japonica cultivar Lemont with the moderately resistant indica cultivar Jasmine 85. Disease reactions of 227 F(7) RILs were determined using a category scale of ratings from 0, representing the most resistant, to 5, representing the most susceptible. A total of nine QTLs responsive to different degrees of phenotypic variation ranging from 5.17 to 26.53% were mapped on chromosomes 3, 8, 9, 11, and 12: qBLAST3 at 1.9 centimorgans (cM) to simple sequence repeat (SSR) marker RM282 on chromosome 3 to IB45 accounting for 5.17%; qBLAST8.1 co-segregated with SSR marker RM1148 to IB49 accounting for 6.69%, qBLAST8.2 at 0.1 cM to SSR marker RM72 to IC17 on chromosome 8 accounting for 7.22%; qBLAST9.1 at 0.1 cM to SSR marker RM257 to IB54, qBLAST9.2 at 2.1 cM to SSR marker RM108, and qBLAST9.3 at 0.1 cM to SSR marker RM215 to IC17 on chromosome 9 accounting for 4.64, 7.62, and 4.49%; qBLAST11 at 2.2 cM to SSR marker RM244 to IB45 and IB54 on chromosome 11 accounting for 26.53 and 19.60%; qBLAST12.1 at 0.3 cM to SSR marker OSM89 to IB1 on chromosome 12 accounting for 5.44%; and qBLAST12.2 at 0.3 and 0.1 cM to SSR marker OSM89 to IB49 and ID1 on chromosome 12 accounting for 9.7 and 10.18% of phenotypic variation, respectively. This study demonstrates the usefulness of tagging blast QTLs using physiological races by composite interval mapping.
20880934	The Asian genus Vigna, to which four cultivated species (rice bean, azuki bean, mung bean and black gram) belong, is suitable for comparative genomics. The aims were to construct a genetic linkage map of rice bean, to identify the genomic regions associated with domestication in rice bean, and to compare these regions with those in azuki bean. A genetic linkage map was constructed by using simple sequence repeat and amplified fragment length polymorphism markers in the BC(1)F(1) population derived from a cross between cultivated and wild rice bean. Using this map, 31 domestication-related traits were dissected into quantitative trait loci (QTLs). The genetic linkage map and QTLs of rice bean were compared with those of azuki bean. A total of 326 markers converged into 11 linkage groups (LGs), corresponding to the haploid number of rice bean chromosomes. The domestication-related traits in rice bean associated with a few major QTLs distributed as clusters on LGs 2, 4 and 7. A high level of co-linearity in marker order between the rice bean and azuki bean linkage maps was observed. Major QTLs in rice bean were found on LG4, whereas major QTLs in azuki bean were found on LG9. This is the first report of a genetic linkage map and QTLs for domestication-related traits in rice bean. The inheritance of domestication-related traits was so simple that a few major QTLs explained the phenotypic variation between cultivated and wild rice bean. The high level of genomic synteny between rice bean and azuki bean facilitates QTL comparison between species. These results provide a genetic foundation for improvement of rice bean; interchange of major QTLs between rice bean and azuki bean might be useful for broadening the genetic variation of both species.
20880995	Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are a special type of Class 2 non-autonomous transposable element (TE) that are abundant in the non-coding regions of the genes of many plant and animal species. The accurate identification of MITEs has been a challenge for existing programs because they lack coding sequences and, as such, evolve very rapidly. Because of their importance to gene and genome evolution, we developed MITE-Hunter, a program pipeline that can identify MITEs as well as other small Class 2 non-autonomous TEs from genomic DNA data sets. The output of MITE-Hunter is composed of consensus TE sequences grouped into families that can be used as a library file for homology-based TE detection programs such as RepeatMasker. MITE-Hunter was evaluated by searching the rice genomic database and comparing the output with known rice TEs. It discovered most of the previously reported rice MITEs (97.6%), and found sixteen new elements. MITE-Hunter was also compared with two other MITE discovery programs, FINDMITE and MUST. Unlike MITE-Hunter, neither of these programs can search large genomic data sets including whole genome sequences. More importantly, MITE-Hunter is significantly more accurate than either FINDMITE or MUST as the vast majority of their outputs are false-positives.
20882466	A total of 214 Fusarium graminearum isolates were obtained from corn and barley which were collected from Kangwon province and the southern part of Korea, respectively, and were tested for 8-ketotrichothecenes and zearalenone (ZEA) production on rice grains. The incidences of trichothecene production by 105 isolates of F. graminearum from corn were 59.0% for deoxynivalenol (DON), 37.1% for 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol(15-ADON), 13.3% for 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-ADON), 7.6% for 3,15-diacetyldeoxynivalenol (3,15-DADON), 20.0% for nivalenol (NIV), 6.7% for 4-acetylnivalenol (4-ANIV), and 1.0% for 4,15-diacetylnivalenol (4,15-DANIV). DON chemotypes frequently produced 15-ADON as the major isomer rather than 3-ADON and 9 of the 61 DON chemotypes produced low levels of NIV. On the other hand, the incidences of trichothecene production of 109 isolates by F. graminearum from barley were 24.8% for DON, 72.5% for NIV, 62.4% for 4-ANIV, and 10.1% for 4,15-DANIV. Of these isolates, 78 were NIV chemotypes and only one isolate produced DON and 3-ADON as major toxins. In addition, 26 of the 78 NIV chemotypes produced low levels of DON. ZEA was frequently produced by the trichothecene-producing isolates and the incidences of ZEA were 51.4% and 31.2% for the isolates from corn and barley, respectively. There was a great regional difference in trichothecene production by F. graminearum isolates between corn- and barley-producing areas in Korea.
20882959	Molecular mechanisms of metabolism and modes of actions of agrochemicals and related compounds are important for understanding selective toxicity, biodegradability, and monitoring of biological effects on nontarget organisms. It is well-known that in mammals, cytochrome P450 (P450 or CYP) monooxygenases metabolize lipophilic foreign compounds. These P450 species are inducible, and both CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 are induced by aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) combined with a ligand. Gene engineering of P450 and NADPH cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (P450 reductase) was established for bioconversion. Also, gene modification of AhRs was developed for recombinant AhR-mediated β-glucronidase (GUS) reporter assay of AhR ligands. Recombinant P450 genes were transformed into plants for phytoremediation, and recombinant AhR-mediated GUS reporter gene expression systems were each transformed into plants for phytomonitoring. Transgenic rice plants carrying CYP2B6 metabolized the herbicide metolachlor and remarkably reduced the residues in the plants and soils under paddy field conditions. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants carrying recombinant guinea pig (g) AhR-mediated GUS reporter genes detected PCB126 at the level of 10 ng/g soils in the presence of biosurfactants MEL-B. Both phytomonitoring and phytoremediation plants were each evaluated from the standpoint of practical uses.
20883152	Rihaakuru is a traditional Maldivian side dish consumed mainly with rice. It is a thick brown fish paste, made from tuna after prolonged heating. Samples tested were found to have a low water activity (0.55-0.8), slightly acidic pH (5.62-6.18) and moderate salt content (1.4-1.6%). The product was found to be rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids such as omega-3, had high protein content (56-59%) and an energy level of 13.8 kJ/g. The product had a low microbial count (1.54-2.31 log(10) cfu/g). The bacteria isolated belonged to the Bacillaceae (Genus Clostridium, and Bacillus), Streptococcaceae (Genus Streptococcus), Micrococcaceae (Genus Staphylococcus), and Corynebacterium. The product appears to be a nutritious and shelf-stable product.
20883443	The rice (Oryza sativa L.) metallothionein gene OsMT-I-4b has previously been identified as a type I MT gene. To elucidate the regulatory mechanism involved in its tissue specificity and abiotic induction, we isolated a 1 730 bp fragment of the OsMT-I-4b promoter region. Histochemical β-glucuronidase (GUS) staining indicated a precise spacial and temporal expression pattern in transgenic Arabidopsis. Higher GUS activity was detected in the roots and the buds of flower stigmas, and relatively lower GUS staining in the shoots was restricted to the trichomes and hydathodes of leaves. No activity was observed in the stems and seeds. Additionally, in the root of transgenic plants, the promoter activity was highly upregulated by various environmental signals, such as abscisic acid, drought, dark, and heavy metals including Cu²(+) , Zn²(+) , Pb²(+) and Al³(+) . Slight induction was observed in transgenic seedlings under salinity stress, or when treated with Co²(+) and Cd²(+) . Promoter analysis of 5'-deletions revealed that the region -583/-1 was sufficient to drive strong GUS expression in the roots but not in the shoots. Furthermore, deletion analysis indicated important promoter regions containing different metal-responsive cis-elements that were responsible for responding to different heavy metals. Collectively, these findings provided important insight into the transcriptional regulation mechanisms of the OsMT-I-4b promoter, and the results also gave us some implications for the potential application of this promoter in plant genetic engineering.
20883444	The present paper introduces a highly sensitive and selective method for simultaneous quantification of 12 cytokinins (free form and their conjugates). The method includes a protocol of extraction with methanol/water/formic acid (15/4/1, v/v/v) to the micro-scale samples, pre-purification with solid phase extraction (SPE) cartridges of the extracts, separation with a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and detection by an electrospray ionization ion trap mass spectrometry (ESI-Ion trap-MS) system in a consecutive ion monitoring (CRM) mode at the three stage fragmentation of mass spectrometry (MS(3)). The lowest detection level of the cytokinins of the method reaches 0.1-2.0 pg with a very wide range of linear regression from 1-512 pg, at the coefficient factors of 0.98-0.99. The feasibility of this method has been proven in the application of the method to the analysis of the trace-amount contents of cytokinins in the micro-scale samples of various types of plant materials, such as aerial parts of rice and poplar leaves etc. 12 endogenous cytokinins had been identified and quantified in the plant tissues, with an acceptable relatively higher recovery rate from 40% to 70%.
20884201	Solid precipitate containing phthalate esters was obtained from rice-husk-derived oil through a basification-acidification process. After separation by column chromatography, the solid precipitate was divided into two mono-component fractions, two bi-component fractions and a tetra-component fraction. The major compounds of the five fractions were all consisted of phthalate esters. Especially, phthalate esters accounted for a proportion higher than 80% in both Fractions I and II. The generation and precipitation mechanisms of phthalate esters were proposed. Phthalate esters were considered to be derived from a series of complicated chemical reactions of small molecules in the biomass pyrolysis process, and precipitated from bio-oil by catalytic hydrolysis and esterification.
20884352	Rice BGlu1 β-glucosidase is an oligosaccharide exoglucosidase that binds to six β-(1→4)-linked glucosyl residues in its active site cleft. Here, we demonstrate that a BGlu1 E176Q active site mutant can be effectively rescued by small nucleophiles, such as acetate, azide and ascorbate, for hydrolysis of aryl glycosides in a pH-independent manner above pH5, consistent with the role of E176 as the catalytic acid-base. Cellotriose, cellotetraose, cellopentaose, cellohexaose and laminaribiose are not hydrolyzed by the mutant and instead exhibit competitive inhibition. The structures of the BGlu1 E176Q, its complexes with cellotetraose, cellopentaose and laminaribiose, and its covalent intermediate with 2-deoxy-2-fluoroglucoside were determined at 1.65, 1.95, 1.80, 2.80, and 1.90Å resolution, respectively. The Q176Nε was found to hydrogen bond to the glycosidic oxygen of the scissile bond, thereby explaining its high activity. The enzyme interacts with cellooligosaccharides through direct hydrogen bonds to the nonreducing terminal glucosyl residue. However, interaction with the other glucosyl residues is predominantly mediated through water molecules, with the exception of a direct hydrogen bond from N245 to glucosyl residue 3, consistent with the apparent high binding energy at this residue. Hydrophobic interactions with the aromatic sidechain of W358 appear to orient glucosyl residues 2 and 3, while Y341 orients glucosyl residues 4 and 5. In contrast, laminaribiose has its second glucosyl residue positioned to allow direct hydrogen bonding between its O2 and Q176 Oε and O1 and N245. These are the first GH1 glycoside hydrolase family structures to show oligosaccharide binding in the hydrolytic configuration.
20884799	Growing interest in alternative splicing in plants and the extensive sequencing of new plant genomes necessitate more precise definition and classification of genes coding for splicing factors. SR proteins are a family of RNA binding proteins, which function as essential factors for constitutive and alternative splicing. We propose a unified nomenclature for plant SR proteins, taking into account the newly revised nomenclature of the mammalian SR proteins and a number of plant-specific properties of the plant proteins. We identify six subfamilies of SR proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa), three of which are plant specific. The proposed subdivision of plant SR proteins into different subfamilies will allow grouping of paralogous proteins and simple assignment of newly discovered SR orthologs from other plant species and will promote functional comparisons in diverse plant species.
20886119	Emerging evidence supports that cooked rice (Oryza sativa L.) contains metabolites with biomedical activities, yet little is known about the genetic diversity that is responsible for metabolite variation and differences in health traits. Metabolites from ten diverse varieties of cooked rice were detected using ultra performance liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. A total of 3,097 compounds were detected, of which 25% differed among the ten varieties. Multivariate analyses of the metabolite profiles showed that the chemical diversity among the varieties cluster according to their defined subspecies classifications: indica, japonica, and aus. Metabolite-specific genetic diversity in rice was investigated by analyzing a collection of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes from biochemical pathways of nutritional importance. Two classes of bioactive compounds, phenolics and vitamin E, contained nonsynonymous SNPs and SNPs in the 5' and 3' untranslated regions for genes in their biosynthesis pathways. Total phenolics and tocopherol concentrations were determined to examine the effect of the genetic diversity among the ten varieties. Per gram of cooked rice, total phenolics ranged from 113.7 to 392.6 µg (gallic acid equivalents), and total tocopherols ranged between 7.2 and 20.9 µg. The variation in the cooked rice metabolome and quantities of bioactive components supports that the SNP-based genetic diversity influenced nutritional components in rice, and that this approach may guide rice improvement strategies for plant and human health.
20886819	The impact of the use of herbicides in agriculture can be minimized by compliance with good management practices that reduce the amount used and their release into the environment. Simple tests that provide real time on-site information about these chemicals are a major aid for these programs. In this work, we show that phage anti-immunocomplex assay (PHAIA), a method that uses phage-borne peptides to detect the formation of antibody-analyte immunocomplexes, is an advantageous technology to produce such field tests. A monoclonal antibody to the herbicide clomazone was raised and used in the development of conventional competitive and noncompetitive PHAIA immunoassays. The sensitivity attained with the PHAIA format was over 10 times higher than that of the competitive format. The cross-reactivity of the two methods was also compared using structurally related compounds, and we observed that the two-site binding of PHAIA "double-checks" the recognition of the analyte, thereby increasing the assay specificity. The positive readout of the noncompetitive PHAIA method allowed adaptation of the assay into a rapid and simple format where as little as 0.4 ng/mL clomazone (more than 10-fold lower than the proposed standard) in water samples from a rice field could be easily detected by simple visual inspection.
20888025	The rymv1-3 allele of the eIF(iso)4G-mediated resistance to Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is found in a few Oryza glaberrima cultivars. The same resistance-breaking (RB) mutations emerged in the central domain of the VPg after inoculation of isolates of different strains. The RB mutations were fixed, often sequentially, at codons 41 and 52 which paralleled an increase in virus accumulation. RB mutations also emerged after inoculation of an avirulent infectious clone, indicating that they were generated de novo in resistant plants. Only virus isolates with a threonine at codon 49 of the VPg broke rymv1-3 resistance, those with a glutamic acid did not. A small subset of these isolates overcame rymv1-2 resistance, but following a specific pathway. Comparison with the RB process of rymv1-2, a resistance allele found in a few Oryza sativa cultivars, showed similarities in the mode of adaptation but revealed converse virulence specificity of the isolates.
20888318	To investigate ternary MADS protein complexes involved in the regulation of floral organ development in rice, we identified MADS proteins interacting with the class B MADS heterodimers, OsMADS16-OsMADS4 and OsMADS16-OsMADS2, using yeast three-hybrid assay. The class B heterodimers interacted with OsMADS6, 7, 8, 14 and 17, which belong to AP1-like, SEP-like or AGL6-like MADS proteins, generating ternary complexes. The entire region of the K and C domains of OsMADS4 was required for the formation of the OsMADS16-OsMADS4-OsMADS6 and OsMADS16-OsMADS4-OsMADS7 ternary complexes. Analysis results of transgenic plants concomitantly suppressing OsMADS4 and OsMADS6, together with the results of previous studies, suggest that the OsMADS16-OsMADS4-OsMADS6 ternary complex plays an important role in floral development, especially lodicule development.
20888428	Pesticides can have an effect on the biochemical and physiological functions of living organisms. The changes seen in fish and their response to pesticides can be used as an example for vertebrate toxicity. In this study, carp fish (Cyprinus carpio) were exposed to different concentrations of tebuconazol fungicide, by rice field (31.95 μg/L) and laboratory (33.47 and 36.23 μg/L) conditional testing, during a 7 day period. Parameters such thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance levels (TBARS), protein carbonyl, catalase, glutathione S-transferase and acetylcholinesterase activities were studied, using the liver, brain and white muscle of the fish. The field experiment showed that the TBARS levels were increased in all the analyzed tissues. Similarly, the protein carbonyl of the liver and the brain AChE activity increased after 7 days. The laboratory experiment demonstrated that the TBARS levels in the liver were increased in both of the concentration tests. TBARS levels in the muscle increased only by the lowest test concentration. On the other hand, the protein carbonyl was increased only by the highest concentration. The results indicate that the tebuconazol exposure from the field and laboratory conditions directly affected the health of the fish, showing the occurrence of oxidative stress.
20889230	We examined the gibberellin (GA) and ethylene regulation of submergence-induced elongation in seedlings of the submergence-tolerant lowland rice (Oryza sativa L.) cvs Senia and Bomba. Elongation was enhanced after germination to facilitate water escape and reach air. We found that submergence-induced elongation depends on GA because it was counteracted by paclobutrazol (an inhibitor of GA biosynthesis), an effect that was negated by GA(3). Moreover, in the cv Senia, submergence increased the content of active GA(1) and its immediate precursors (GA(53), GA(19) and GA(20)) by enhancing expression of several GA biosynthesis genes (OsGA20ox1 and -2, and OsGA3ox2), but not by decreasing expression of several OsGA2ox (GA inactivating genes). Senia seedlings, in contrast to Bomba seedlings, did not elongate in response to ethylene or 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic-acid (ACC; an ethylene precursor) application, and submergence-induced elongation was not reduced in the presence of 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP; an ethylene perception inhibitor). Ethylene emanation was similar in Senia seedlings grown in air and in submerged-grown seedlings following de-submergence, while it increased in Bomba. The expression of ethylene biosynthesis genes (OsACS1, -2 and -3, and OsACO1) was not affected in Senia, but expression of OsACS5 was rapidly enhanced in Bomba upon submergence. Our results support the conclusion that submergence elongation enhancement of lowland rice is due to alteration of GA metabolism leading to an increase in active GA (GA(1)) content. Interestingly, in the cv Senia, in contrast to cv Bomba, this was triggered through an ethylene-independent mechanism.
20889913	Rice (Oryza sativa) endosperm accumulates a massive amount of storage starch and storage proteins during seed development. However, little is known about the regulatory system involved in the production of storage substances. The rice flo2 mutation resulted in reduced grain size and starch quality. Map-based cloning identified FLOURY ENDOSPERM2 (FLO2), a member of a novel gene family conserved in plants, as the gene responsible for the rice flo2 mutation. FLO2 harbors a tetratricopeptide repeat motif, considered to mediate a protein-protein interactions. FLO2 was abundantly expressed in developing seeds coincident with production of storage starch and protein, as well as in leaves, while abundant expression of its homologs was observed only in leaves. The flo2 mutation decreased expression of genes involved in production of storage starch and storage proteins in the endosperm. Differences between cultivars in their responsiveness of FLO2 expression during high-temperature stress indicated that FLO2 may be involved in heat tolerance during seed development. Overexpression of FLO2 enlarged the size of grains significantly. These results suggest that FLO2 plays a pivotal regulatory role in rice grain size and starch quality by affecting storage substance accumulation in the endosperm.
20890089	The filamentous cyanobacterium Arthrospira platensis strain MMG-9 was isolated from a rice field. The ability of this strain to synthesize the bioactive compound indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was demonstrated. IAA was extracted from the culture A. platensis strain MMG-9 and its identity was confirmed by thin layer chromatography (TLC) as well as by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The IAA precursor L-tryptophan was required for IAA biosynthesis. Released IAA increased with the increase of the initial concentration of L-tryptophan in the medium and with the incubation time. A. platensis strain MMG-9 accumulates more IAA than it released it into the medium. The bioactivity of the secreted IAA was shown by its effect on the formation of roots by Pisum sativum. There was a significant positive effect of the supernatant of cultures of A. platensis strain MMG-9 on the number of lateral roots of P. sativum while a negative effect on root length was observed.
20890098	Three types of nuruk were made from rice, wheat, and a rice-glasswort (6:4) mixture. Nuruk, makgeolli, and vinegar were manufactured with rice nuruk (RN), wheat nuruk (WN), and rice-glasswort nuruk (RGN). The saccharifying activity and ethanol productivity of nuruk, polyphenol content in makgeolli, and acetic acid and polyphenol content in the vinegar were increased as the result of the addition of glasswort. The variable region of 18S- or 16S-rDNA amplified with genomic DNA extracted directly from nuruk, makgeolli- and vinegar-making cultures was analyzed via temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE). The sequence of the 18S-rDNA variable region extracted from the TGGE gel for nuruk was more than 95% homologous with Aspergillus sp and that for the makgeolli-making culture was more than 95% homologous with Saccharomyces sp and Saccharomycodes sp. The sequence of the 16S-rDNA variable region extracted from TGGE gel for the vinegar-making culture was more than 95% homologous, primarily with the Acetobacter sp. The eukaryotic and prokaryotic diversity in the nuruk, makgeolli-making, and vinegar-making cultures was not significantly altered by the addition of glasswort. Prokaryotic diversity was higher than eukaryotic diversity in the nuruk, but eukaryotic diversity was higher than prokaryotic diversity in the makgeolli-making culture, on the basis of the TGGE patterns. No 18S-rDNA was amplified from the DNA extracted from the vinegar-making culture. In conclusion, the glasswort may be not simply an activator for the growth of microorganisms during the fermentation of nuruk, makgeolli, or vinegar, but also a nutritional supplement that improves the quality of vinegar.
208934
2091527	Simultaneous Saccharification and Fermentation (SSF) experiments were carried out on agricultural residues using culture filtrate of Sclerotium rolfsii, which produces high levels of cellulases and hemicellulases for the saccharification of rice straw and bagasse, and Candida shehatae--the D-xylose fermenting yeast, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, both separately and in coculture, for fermenting the released sugars. The coculture system showed efficient utilization of hydrolyzed sugars with 30-38% and 10-13% increase in ethanol production as compared to C. shehatae and S. cerevisiae, respectively, when cultivated separately. SSF simulation studies were carried out using standard sugar mixtures of glucose, xylose, and cellobiose. Both organisms could not use cellobiose, whereas glucose was used preferentially. C. shehatae was capable of utilizing xylose in the presence of glucose.
20920212	Meiotic recombination in eukaryotes requires two homologues of the E. coli RecA proteins: Rad51 and Dmc1. Both proteins play important roles in the binding of single stranded DNA, homology search, strand invasion and strand exchange. Meiotic recombination has been well studied in Arabidopsis, rice, maize and the orthologues of RAD51 and DMC1 have been characterized. However genetic analysis of the RAD51 and DMC1 genes in bread wheat has been hampered due to the absence of complete sequence information and because of the existence of multiple copies of each gene in the hexaploid wheat genome. In this study we have identified that TaRAD51 and TaDMC1 homoeologues are located on group 7 and group 5 chromosomes of hexaploid wheat, respectively. Comparative sequence analysis of cDNA derived from the TaRAD51 and TaDMC1 homoeologues revealed limited sequence divergence at both the nucleotide and the amino acid level. Indeed, comparisons between the predicted amino acid sequences of TaRAD51 and TaDMC1 and those of other eukaryotes reveal a high degree of evolutionary conservation. Despite the high degree of sequence conservation at the nucleotide level, genome-specific primers for cDNAs of TaRAD51 and TaDMC1 were developed to evaluate expression patterns of individual homoeologues during meiosis. QRT-PCR analysis showed that expression of the TaRAD51 and TaDMC1 cDNA homoeologues was largely restricted to meiotic tissue, with elevated levels observed during the stages of prophase I when meiotic recombination occurs. All three homoeologues of both strand-exchange proteins (TaRAD51 and TaDMC1) are expressed in wheat. Bread wheat contains three expressed copies of each of the TaRAD51 and TaDMC1 homoeologues. While differences were detected between the three cDNA homoeologues of TaRAD51 as well as the three homoeologues of TaDMC1, it is unlikely that the predicted amino acid substitutions would have an effect on the protein structure, based on our three-dimensional structure prediction analyses. There are differences in the levels of expression of the three homoeologues of TaRAD51 and TaDMC1 as determined by QRT-PCR and if these differences are reflected at the protein level, bread wheat may be more dependent upon a particular homoeologue to achieve full fertility than all three equally.
20921155	In the barley (Hordeum vulgare) Hooded (Kap) mutant, the duplication of a 305-bp intron sequence leads to the overexpression of the Barley knox3 (Bkn3) gene, resulting in the development of an extra flower in the spikelet. We used a one-hybrid screen to identify four proteins that bind the intron-located regulatory element (Kap intron-binding proteins). Three of these, Barley Ethylene Response Factor1 (BERF1), Barley Ethylene Insensitive Like1 (BEIL1), and Barley Growth Regulating Factor1 (BGRF1), were characterized and their in vitro DNA-binding capacities verified. Given the homology of BERF1 and BEIL1 to ethylene signaling proteins, we investigated if these factors might play a dual role in intron-mediated regulation and ethylene response. In transgenic rice (Oryza sativa), constitutive expression of the corresponding genes produced phenotypic alterations consistent with perturbations in ethylene levels and variations in the expression of a key gene of ethylene biosynthesis. In barley, ethylene treatment results in partial suppression of the Kap phenotype, accompanied by up-regulation of BERF1 and BEIL1 expression, followed by down-regulation of Bkn3 mRNA levels. In rice protoplasts, BEIL1 activates the expression of a reporter gene driven by the 305-bp intron element, while BERF1 can counteract this activation. Thus, BEIL1 and BERF1, likely in association with other Kap intron-binding proteins, should mediate the fine-tuning of Bkn3 expression by ethylene. We propose a hypothesis for the cross talk between the KNOX and ethylene pathways.
20922960	Because food allergens from tree nuts, including walnuts, are a frequent cause of adverse food reactions for allergic patients, the labeling of foods containing ingredients derived from tree nuts is required in numerous countries. According to Japanese regulations, the labeling of food products containing walnuts is recommended. To ensure proper labeling, a novel sandwich ELISA kit for the determination of walnut protein in processed foods (Walnut Protein [2S-Albumin] Kit; Morinaga Institute of Biological Science, Inc.; "walnut kit") has been developed. We prepared seven types of incurred samples (model processed foods: biscuits, bread, sponge cake, orange juice, jelly, chicken meatballs, and rice gruel) containing 10 microg walnut soluble protein/g of food for use in interlaboratory evaluations of the walnut kit. The walnut kit displayed sufficient reproducibility relative standard deviations (interlaboratory precision: 5.8-9.9% RSDR) and a high level of recovery (81-119%) for all the incurred samples. All the repeatability relative standard deviation (RSDr) values for the incurred samples that were examined were less than 6.0%. The results of this interlaboratory evaluation suggested that the walnut kit could be used as a precise and reliable tool for determination of walnut protein in processed foods.
20922964	An analytical method is presented for the determination of chlorantraniliprole residues in crops. Chlorantraniliprole residues were extracted from crop matrixes with acetonitrile after a water soak. The extracts were passed through a strong anion-exchange (SAX) SPE cartridge stacked on top of a reversed-phase (RP) polymer cartridge. After both cartridges were rinsed and vacuum-dried, the SAX cartridge was removed, and chlorantraniliprole was eluted from the RP polymer cartridge with acetonitrile. The acetonitrile eluate was evaporated to dryness, reconstituted, and analyzed using an LC/MS/MS instrument equipped with an atmospheric pressure chemical ionization source. The method was successfully validated at 0.010, 0.10, and 10 mg/kg for the following crop matrixes: potatoes, sugar beets (tops), lettuce, broccoli, soybeans, soybean forage, tomatoes, cucumbers, oranges, apples, pears, peaches, almonds (nutmeat), rice grain, wheat grain, wheat hay, corn stover, alfalfa forage, cottonseed, grapes, and corn grain. The average recoveries from all crop samples fortified at the method LOQ ranged from 91 to 108%, with an overall average recovery of 97%. The average recoveries from all crop samples fortified at 10 times the method LOQ ranged from 89 to 115%, with an overall average recovery of 101%. For all of the fortified control samples analyzed in this study, the overall average recovery was 99%.
20923148	Selenite uptake by rice roots is regulated by many factors. The goal of this paper was to study the effects of the nitrate supply site on selenite uptake by rice roots. Using the excised-root experiment system, we found that, due to anion-anion interactions, nitrate can partly block the selenite uptake by rice roots by local action (a corporate supply of nitrate and selenite in the same portion). Using a split-root experiment system (whole-plant level), we found that (1) nitrate can also partly block selenite uptake by rice (roots and shoots) by local action; and that (2) under long-distance action (separate supply of nitrate and selenite in two different portions of the root), nitrate can partly facilitate selenite uptake by rice (roots and shoots), probably by regulating root glutathione content. Thus, our results suggest that nitrate can inhibit or facilitate selenite uptake by rice roots depending on the nitrate supply site.
20923205	The reaction of ClO with Cl and its related reverse processes have been studied theoretically by ab initio quantum chemical and statistical mechanical calculations. The geometric parameters of the reactants, products, and transition states are optimized by both UMPW1PW91 and unrestricted coupled-cluster single and double excitation (UCCSD) methods with the 6-311+G(3df) basis set. The potential energy surface has been further refined (with triple excitations, T) at the UCCSD(T)/6-311+G(3df) level of theory. The results show that Cl(2) and O ((3)P) can be produced by chlorine atom abstraction via a tight transition state, while ClOCl ((1)A(1)) and ClClO ((1)A') can be formed by barrierless association processes with exothermicities of 31.8 and 16.0 kcal/mol, respectively. In principle the O ((1)D) atom can be generated with a large endothermicity of 56.9 kcal/mol; on the other hand, its barrierless reaction with Cl(2) can readily form ClClO ((1)A'), which fragments rapidly to give ClO + Cl. The rate constants of both forward and reverse processes have been predicted at 150-2000 K by the microcanonical variational transition state theory (VTST)/Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory. The predicted rate constants are in good agreement with available experimental data within reported errors.
20923426	There is evidence that dysregulation of free radicals metabolism associated with abnormal activities of antioxidative enzymes in schizophrenia can lead to lipid peroxidation in plasma, erythrocytes, blood platelets and cerebrospinal fluid. Injury to neurons in schizophrenia may affect their function, i.e. membrane transport, impairment of energy production in mitochondria, changes in membrane phospholipid composition, alteration of receptors and transporters as well as neurotransmission. The purpose of the present study was to assess the total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and lipid peroxidation (expressed as the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances [TBARS]) in plasma from schizophrenic patients taking olanzapine or risperidone. The level of TBARS estimated according to the Rice-Evans method and TAC ([ABTS; 2,2'-azinobis-(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) radical cation decolorization assay]) in plasma from schizophrenic patients (DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia, n = 30, age 18-36) taking olanzapine or risperidone and from healthy volunteers (n = 30) were measured. The level of TBARS in plasma from healthy volunteers after incubation with olanzapine or risperidone was also estimated. Significantly lower plasma TAC (P < 0.05) and significantly increased level of TBARS (P < 0.001) in schizophrenic patients were observed. The in vitro study showed that after olanzapine or risperidone (at final concentrations corresponding to doses used in acute episodes of schizophrenia treatment) no changes of plasma lipid peroxidation were found (P > 0.05). The obtained results indicate that the pro-oxidant disturbances occur in schizophrenic patients (acute episode) taking stable doses of olanzapine or risperidone. It seems that second-generation antipsychotics (olanzapine and risperidone) are not responsible for increase of plasma lipid peroxidation.
20924028	Elevated salinity imposes osmotic and ion toxicity stresses on living cells and requires a multitude of responses in order to enable plant survival. Building on earlier work profiling transcript levels in rice (Oryza sativa) shoots of FL478, a salt-tolerant indica recombinant inbred line, and IR29, a salt-sensitive cultivar, transcript levels were compared in roots of these two accessions as well as in the roots of two additional salt-tolerant indica genotypes, the landrace Pokkali and the recombinant inbred line IR63731. The aim of this study was to compare transcripts in the sensitive and the tolerant lines in order to identify genes likely to be involved in plant salinity tolerance, rather than in responses to salinity per se. Transcript profiles of several gene families with known links to salinity tolerance are described (e.g. HKTs, NHXs). The putative function of a set of genes identified through their salt responsiveness, transcript levels, and/or chromosomal location (i.e. underneath QTLs for salinity tolerance) is also discussed. Finally, the parental origin of the Saltol region in FL478 is further investigated. Overall, the dataset presented appears to be robust and it seems likely that this system could provide a reliable strategy for the discovery of novel genes involved in salinity tolerance.
20924144	This paper describes the health and nutritional status and quality of life (QOL) of suburban villagers in the Solomon Islands 3 y after the 1998-2003 ethnic conflict. Cross-sectional data were obtained from a small community located 50 km east of the capital city (n=206, 87 adults and 119 children). A health survey involving urine analysis, anthropometry, and blood pressure measurements was conducted to assess health and nutritional status and child growth. Simultaneously, 57 non-randomly selected adults participated in the QOL questionnaire survey. Results of anthropometry show that participants had good health and nutritional status (mean BMIs: 22.8 and 21.7 for men and women, respectively) and 73% of boys and 83% of girls were judged `normal body size' based on their BMI values. Urinalysis revealed that 88% of the participants were healthy and indicated that they consumed considerable amounts of purchased food such as rice and tinned meat. These findings suggest that the population's lifestyle had essentially recovered from the ethnic conflict. However, possible consequences of the ethnic conflict on the QOL scores were observed in the environmental domain. This study found a positive association between body fat and QOL. This could be interpreted in terms of the traditionally positive view of large bodies in the South Pacific and as resulting from unstable social conditions prevailing after the ethnic conflict.
20924581	South Korea's Civilian Control Zone (CCZ), a relatively untouched area due to tight military oversight since the end of Korean War, has received considerable attention nationally and internationally for its rich biodiversity. However, the exclusion of local communities from the process of defining problems and goals and of setting priorities for biodiversity conservation has halted a series of biodiversity conservation efforts. Through qualitative research, we explored CCZ farmers' views of key problems and issues and also the sources of their opposition to the government-initiated conservation approaches. Key findings include the farmers' concerns about the impact of conservation restrictions on their access to necessary resources needed to farm, wildlife impacts on the value of rice and other agricultural goods they produce, and farmers' strong distrust of government, the military, and planners, based on their experiences with past conservation processes. The findings regarding farmers' perceptions should prove useful for the design of future participatory planning processes for biodiversity conservation in the CCZ. This case highlights how conservative measures, perceived to be imposed from above--however scientifically valuable--can be undermined and suggests the value that must be placed on communication among planners and stakeholders.
20924648	NPR1 is a central regulator of salicylic-acid (SA)-mediated defense signaling in Arabidopsis. Here, we report the characterization of OsNPR1, an Oryzae sativa (rice) ortholog of NPR1, focusing on its role in blast disease resistance and identification of OsNPR1-regulated genes. Blast resistance tests using OsNPR1 knockdown and overexpressing rice lines demonstrated the essential role of OsNPR1 in benzothiadiazole (BTH)-induced blast resistance. Genome-wide transcript profiling using OsNPR1-knockdown lines revealed that 358 genes out of 1,228 BTH-upregulated genes and 724 genes out of 1,069 BTH-downregulated genes were OsNPR1-dependent with respect to BTH responsiveness, thereby indicating that OsNPR1 plays a more vital role in gene downregulation. The OsNPR1-dependently downregulated genes included many of those involved in photosynthesis and in chloroplast translation and transcription. Reduction of photosynthetic activity after BTH treatment and its negation by OsNPR1 knockdown were indeed reflected in the changes in Fv/Fm values in leaves. These results imply the role of OsNPR1 in the reallocation of energy and resources during defense responses. We also examined the OsNPR1-dependence of SA-mediated suppression of ABA-induced genes.
20926385	Molecular selection, ion exclusion, and water permeation are well known regulatory mechanisms in aquaporin. Water permeability was found to be diverse in different subgroups of plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs), even though the residues surrounding the water holes remained the same across the subgroups. Upon homology modeling and structural comparison, a conserved Ala/Ile(Val) residue difference was identified in helix 2 that affected the conformation of the NPA region and consequently influenced the water permeability. The residue difference was found to be conservative within the two subgroups of PIPs in rice as well as in other plants. Functional tests further confirmed the prediction via site-directed mutagenesis where replacement of Ala(103) or Ala(102) in respective OsPIP1;1 or OsPIP1;3 with Val yielded 7.0- and 2.2-fold increases in water transportation, and substitution of Ile(98) or Val(95) in respective OsPIP2;3 or OsPIP2;7 with Ala resulted in 73 or 52% reduction of water transportation. Based on structural analyses and molecular dynamics simulations, we proposed that the difference in water permeability was attributed to the orientation variations of helix 2 that modified water-water and water-protein interactions.
20926420	The development of new high-throughput genotyping products requires a significant investment in testing and training samples to evaluate and optimize the product before it can be used reliably on new samples. One reason for this is current methods for automated calling of genotypes are based on clustering approaches which require a large number of samples to be analyzed simultaneously, or an extensive training dataset to seed clusters. In systems where inbred samples are of primary interest, current clustering approaches perform poorly due to the inability to clearly identify a heterozygote cluster. As part of the development of two custom single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping products for Oryza sativa (domestic rice), we have developed a new genotype calling algorithm called 'ALCHEMY' based on statistical modeling of the raw intensity data rather than modelless clustering. A novel feature of the model is the ability to estimate and incorporate inbreeding information on a per sample basis allowing accurate genotyping of both inbred and heterozygous samples even when analyzed simultaneously. Since clustering is not used explicitly, ALCHEMY performs well on small sample sizes with accuracy exceeding 99% with as few as 18 samples. ALCHEMY is available for both commercial and academic use free of charge and distributed under the GNU General Public License at http://alchemy.sourceforge.net/ mhw6@cornell.edu Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
20930527	The lipidic structures, anther cuticle (outer anther surface) and pollen exine (outer pollen wall), play a key protective role for the male gametophyte and pollen grain development. We recently identified ancient cytochrome P450 family member CYP704B2 in rice, and proposed a common fatty acid ω-hydroxylation pathway for synthesizing anther cuticle and pollen exine during plant male reproductive development. Furthermore, we propose developmental model of pollen exine formation and discuss key genes required for pollen exine synthesis in the important crop plant rice.
20931371	Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), in conjunction with reverse transcriptase, has been used for the systematic measurement of plant physiological changes in gene expression. In the present paper, we describe a qRT-PCR protocol that illustrates the essential technical steps required to generate quantitative data that are reliable and reproducible. To demonstrate the methods used, we evaluated the expression stability of five [actin (ACT), actin1 (ACT1), β-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), cyclophilin (CYC), and elongation factor 1α (EF-1α)] frequently used housekeeping genes in rice. The expression stability of the five selected housekeeping genes varied considerably in different tissues (seedlings, vegetative and reproductive stages) in a given stress condition. The analysis allowed us to choose a set of two candidates (ACT1 and EF-1α) that showed more uniform expression and are also suitable for the validation of weakly expressed genes (≥0.5 fold), identified through microarray analysis.
20931372	Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is an efficient tool for high throughput reverse genetic screens. VIGS engages the endogenous RNA-silencing machinery of the plant host, and can yield an 85-95% reduction of target transcripts. Gene silencing is rapid, target-specific, and does not require the creation of stable transformants. The technique has been used successfully in numerous Solanaceae species as well as in Arabidopsis, maize, and rice. Here we describe a protocol for conducting a VIGS screen in Nicotiana benthamiana using Tobacco Rattle Virus (TRV) based silencing vectors. This protocol can readily be adapted to many other model plant species.
20931374	Full-length cDNAs (fl-cDNAs) are important resources for the characterization of gene function, since they contain all the information required for the production of functional RNAs and proteins. Large sets of fl-cDNA clones have been collected from several plant species and have become available for functional genomic analysis. We have developed a system for the identification of gene function by screening for transgenic plants ectopically expressing fl-cDNAs and named it the FOX (fl-cDNA overexpressor gene) hunting system. This system can be applied to almost all plant species without prior knowledge of their genome sequences because only fl-cDNAs are required. For utilization of the FOX hunting system, Agrobacterium libraries and Arabidopsis seeds carrying rice and Arabidopsis fl-cDNAs are available. Here, we will describe the procedure followed in the FOX hunting system from the generation of expression vectors carrying fl-cDNAs to the confirmation of phenotype in retransformed plants.
20931376	The process of activation tagging in plants involves the random distribution of plant regulatory sequences throughout the genome. The insertion of a regulatory sequence in the vicinity of an endogenous gene can alter the transcriptional pattern of this gene resulting in a mutant phenotype that arises from excess functional gene product. Activation tagging has been undertaken extensively in a number of dicot plants and also in rice. This has been achieved primarily by high-throughput plant transformation using T-DNA sequences that encode regulatory elements. Apart from rice, most cereals do not have a suitably efficient transformation system for high-throughput transformation. In this article, we detail an activation tagging system in barley that exploits the mobility of the maize Ac/Ds transposable element system to distribute a highly expressed promoter throughout the barley genome. The advantage of this approach in this species is that a relatively small number of primary transgenics are required to generate an activation tagging population. Insertion of this transposable element into genes can also generate insertional inactivation mutants enabling both gene overexpression and gene knockout mutants to be identified in the same population.
20931377	With the completion of the rice genome sequencing project, the next major challenge is the large-scale determination of gene function. A systematic phenotypic profiling of mutant collections will provide major insights into gene functions important for crop growth or production. Thus, detailed phenomics analysis is the key to functional genomics. Currently, the two major types of rice mutant collections are insertional mutants and chemical or irradiation-induced mutants. Here we describe how to manipulate a rice mutant population, including conducting phenomics studies and the subsequent propagation and seed storage. We list the phenotypes screened and also describe how to collect data systematically for a database of the qualitative and quantitative phenotypic traits. Thus, data on mutant lines, phenotypes, and segregation rate for all kinds of mutant populations, as well as integration sites for insertional mutant populations, would be searchable, and the collection would be a good resource for rice functional genomics study.
20931378	The central goal of current genomics research in plants, as in other organisms, is to elucidate the functions of every gene. Insertional mutagenesis using known DNA sequences such as T-DNA is a powerful tool in functional genomics. Development of efficient methods for isolating the genomic sequences flanking insertion elements accelerates the systematic cataloging of insertional mutants, and thus allows functions to be assigned to uncharacterized genes via reverse genetic approaches. In our current study, we report a rapid and efficient inverse PCR (iPCR) method for the isolation of gene tags in T-DNA mutant lines of rice (Oryza sativa), a model monocot plant.
20931379	Insertion mutants offer one of the direct ways to relate a gene to its function by employing forward or reverse genetics approaches. Both T-DNA and transposon insertional mutants are being produced in several crops, including rice, the first cereal with its complete genome sequenced. Transposons have several advantages over T-DNA including the ability to produce multiple independent insertion lines from individual starter lines, as well as producing revertants by remobilization. With our new gene constructs, and a two-component transposon iAc/Ds mutagenesis protocol, we have improved both gene trapping and screening efficiencies in rice.
20931385	The rich collection of known genetic information and the recent completion of rice genome sequencing project provided the cereal plant researchers a useful tool to investigate the roles of genes and genomic organization that contribute to numerous agronomic traits. Gramene (http://www.gramene.org) is a unique database where users are allowed to query and explore the power of genomic colinearity and comparative genomics for genetic and genomic studies on plant genomes. Gramene presents a wholesome perspective by assimilating data from a broad range of publicly available data sources for cereals like rice, sorghum, maize, wild rice, wheat, oats, barley, and other agronomically important crop plants such as poplar and grape, and the model plant Arabidopsis. As part of the process, it preserves the original data, but also reanalyzes for integration into several knowledge domains of maps, markers, genes, proteins, pathways, phenotypes, including Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) and genetic diversity/natural variation. This allows researchers to use this information resource to decipher the known and predicted interactions between the components of biological systems, and how these interactions regulate plant development. Using examples from rice, this article describes how the database can be helpful to researchers representing an array of knowledge domains ranging from plant biology, plant breeding, molecular biology, genomics, biochemistry, genetics, bioinformatics, and phylogenomics.
20931619	Glutelin, the major storage protein of rice seed, consists of microheterogenous subunits and partially exists in a macromolecular form that is polymerized by intersubunit disulfide bonds. In order to analyze the glutelin subunits using high-throughput CE, we first identified a sample preparation procedure suitable for CE. The polymerized glutelin treated with a reductant could not dissociate into its constituent monomer subunits when it was dissolved in an acidic solution. However, the glutelin dissociated into its subunits and component α and β polypeptides when it was denatured and reduced by an appropriate amount of urea and 2-mercaptoethanol at a specific incubation time and temperature. The molecular species of the completely dissociated α and β polypeptides were identified and quantitatively analyzed by CE using glutelin mutants. The CE analysis also demonstrated that the actual subunit variation in terms of the charge and/or size of the β polypeptides is much smaller than predicted when compared with that of α polypeptides, even under denaturing and reducing condition. Thus, the combined analytical system described here will be useful for basic and applied research, such as the kinetic characterization of higher-order structure and the quantitative evaluation of glutelin in a large number of diverse rice varieties.
20931907	Sugarcane field-workers, like rice field-workers, livestock farmers and abattoir workers are known to be occupationally exposed to zoonotic agents. The study determined the seroprevalence of immunoglobulins to Toxoplasma gondii (IgM), Leptospira spp (IgM) and Brucella abortus (IgG) in sugarcane field-workers across weighing stations in the island of Trinidad. In addition, the association of risk factors to infections by the three zoonoses was investigated. Blood samples were collected from consenting apparently healthy sugarcane field-workers across the island of Trinidad. Current/acute infection in individuals was determined in the sera of individuals using the enzyme immunoassay (EIA) for T gondii IgM antibodies, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for Leptospira spp IgM immunoglobulins and both buffered plate agglutination test (BPAT) and competitive ELISA for B abortus IgG antibodies. The seroprevalence of IgM immunoglobulins to T gondii was 15.7% (64 of 407) and to Leptospira spp was 0.7% (5 of 704) and the difference was statistically significant (p 0 < 0.05; chi2). All 704 samples tested for B abortus IgG immunoglobulins were negative. All risk factors (age, gender race and type of work done) were not statistically significantly (p > 0.05; chi2) associated with infections by T gondii and Leptospira spp. It was concluded that sugarcane field-workers in Trinidad were at high risk of acute toxoplasmosis and, to a lesser extent, to leptospirosis. The fact that the four risk factors studied were not significantly associated with T gondii and Leptospira spp infections suggests that they may not be important in the epidemiology of both diseases in the population studied.
20932726	An amoeba strain was isolated from marine sediment taken from the beach near a fumarole in Italy. The trophozoites of this new marine species transforms into flagellates with variable numbers of flagella, from 2 to 10. The strain forms round to oval cysts. This thermophilic amoeboflagellate grows at temperatures up to 54°C. Molecular phylogenetic analysis of the small subunit ribosomal DNA (SSU rDNA) places the amoeboflagellate in the Heterolobosea. The closest relatives are Stachyamoeba sp. ATCC50324, a strain isolated from an ocean sample, and Vrihiamoeba italica, a recent isolate from a rice field. Like some other heterolobosean species, this new isolate has a group I intron in the SSU rDNA. Because of the unique place in the molecular phylogenetic tree, and because there is no species found in the literature with similar morphological and physiological characteristics, this isolate is considered to be a new genus and a new species, Oramoeba fumarolia gen. nov., sp. nov.
20932842	In entomopathogenic hyphomycetes, desired candidates against the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (a sap-sucking rice pest in Asia), are lacking. In this study, 21 Beauveria bassiana isolates from heterologous host insects showed low pathogenicity to third-instar nymphs sprayed at the high concentration of ∼ 1000 conidia/mm(2), causing only 2-23% mortalities. Of those, three isolates killed significantly more nymphs (up to 45-62%) after two in vivo passages but no more after further passage. Conidial hydrophobicity rates (H(r)), zeta potentials (P(z)), and subtilisin-like protease (Pr1) activities (A(p)) of these isolates showed the same trends in the three host passages (N: 0-3). In multivariate correlation, the variables N, H(r) and P(z) were found contributing 89% to the mortality variation (r(2)=0.89). Significant positive correlations were also found between H(r) and N (r(2)=0.64), P(z) and N (r(2)=0.52), A(p) and N (r(2)=0.51), H(r) and A(p) (r(2)=0.45), and P(z) and A(p) (r(2)=0.57), respectively. However, irregular changes of H(r) and P(z) occurred in four other isolates, whose pathogenicity to N. lugens was not enhanced by repeated host passages, resulting in no correlation between the variables. Our data indicate that the conidial surface properties H(r) and P(z) associated with cuticle adhesion reflect the heterologous host-induced adaptation and help to select fungal candidates against N. lugens from repeated in vivo passages.
20934370	Flooding is one of the most hazardous natural disasters, and there are several levels of flooding. Recently, research on flood-tolerant rice plants revealed that some rice varieties have evolved to overcome two different flood types, 'flash flood' and 'deepwater flood', using two different mechanisms, and their molecular mechanisms were determined. During flash flooding, the tolerant plants that are fully submerged for a few weeks stop elongating and thus avoid energy consumption that will be needed to restart growth when the water recedes. On the contrary, during deepwater flooding, with water depth up to several meters for several months, the deepwater-flood-tolerant rice plants promote elongation of internodes to keep the foliage above the water surface and thus allow respiration and photosynthesis.
20936352	Kurozu, a traditional Japanese black vinegar made from unpolished rice, and Kurozu Moromimatsu (Kurozu-M), its sediment, are both consumed in Japan as health foods or supplements. However, it is not known whether they have anti-colitis activity. We examined the protective effects of Kurozu and Kurozu-M in an animal model of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. DSS-induced colitis was induced in C57 black 6 mice by orally administering 3.5% DSS solution for 12 days. The control group received basal CE-2 diet (n = 10), the Kurozu group received CE-2 containing Kurozu (n = 10), the Kurozu-M group received CE-2 containing Kurozu-M (n = 10), and the acetic acid group received CE-2 containing acetic acid (n = 10), starting a week before DSS administration. Changes of body weight and bloody stool frequency were monitored. At 12 days after DSS administration, mice were killed for pathological examination and measurement of nitrotyrosine levels in rectal tissues. Kurozu significantly inhibited body weight loss during 6-12 days after DSS administration and reduced bloody stool frequency during 2-12 days, and also significantly decreased nitrotyrosine levels at 12 days, compared to the control group. Kurozu-M significantly inhibited body weight loss during 6-8 days after DSS administration and reduced bloody stool frequency during 2-12 days, but tissue nitrotyrosine level was not significantly different from the control. Acetic acid had no ameliorating effect on DSS-induced colitis compared to the control group. Kurozu and Kurozu-M have protective effects against DSS-induced colitis. Kurozu has anti-oxidative and anti-nitration activity.
20936818	Arsenic contamination of rice is widespread, but the rhizosphere processes influencing arsenic attenuation remain unresolved. In particular, the formation of Fe plaque around rice roots is thought to be an important barrier to As uptake, but the relative importance of this mechanism is not well characterized. Here we elucidate the colocalization of As species and Fe on rice roots with variable Fe coatings; we used a combination of techniques--X-ray fluorescence imaging, μXANES, transmission X-ray microscopy, and tomography--for this purpose. Two dominant As species were observed in fine roots-inorganic As(V) and As(III) -with minor amounts of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) and arsenic trisglutathione (AsGlu(3)). Our investigation shows that variable Fe plaque formation affects As entry into rice roots. In roots with Fe plaque, As and Fe were strongly colocated around the root; however, maximal As and Fe were dissociated and did not encapsulate roots that had minimal Fe plaque. Moreover, As was not exclusively associated with Fe plaque in the rice root system; Fe plaque does not coat many of the young roots or the younger portion of mature roots. Young, fine roots, important for solute uptake, have little to no iron plaque. Thus, Fe plaque does not directly intercept (and hence restrict) As supply to and uptake by rice roots but rather serves as a bulk scavenger of As predominantly near the root base.
20936826	Most mitochondrial proteins are synthesized in the cytosol as precursor and imported into the mitochondria by Tom complexes (translocase of outer membrane complexes). Knowledge of the binding mechanism between precursor and Tom20 in plants is very limited. Here, computational methods are employed to improve our understanding of the interactions between both molecules. To this end, we model mitochondrial superoxide dismutase precursor (pSOD) in complex with Tom20 in Oryza sativa (OsTom20). In a first stage, five main binding modes were generated using clustering analysis, energy minimization, and expert knowledge. In a second stage, the quality and validity of the resulting complexes is assessed by molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with a generalized Born solvation model. The change in binding free energies is estimated using a computational alanine scanning technique. We identified a particularly favorable complex between pSOD and OsTom20, exhibiting the lowest binding free energy among all candidates and correlating well with experimental data. Furthermore, three independent explicit solvent MD simulations of this structure, each of 100 ns duration, reveal that hydrophobic interactions occur between pSOD and OsTom20, in particular between L158 of pSOD and W81 of OsTom20, as evidenced by analysis of intermolecular distances and corresponding relative free energy landscapes. L158 is part of an interacting LRTLA motif. These results provide new insight into the structural basis and dynamics of precursor recognition by Tom20 in plant, and their generality is supported by sequence alignments with seven other plants.
20936879	Brown planthopper (BPH) is a notorious pest of rice plants attacking leaf sheaths and seriously affecting global rice production. However, how rice plants respond against BPH remains to be fully understood. To understand systems metabolic responses of rice plants to BPH infestation, we analyzed BPH-induced metabolic changes in leaf sheaths of both BPH-susceptible and resistant rice varieties using NMR-based metabonomics and measured expression changes of 10 relevant genes using quantitative real-time PCR. Our results showed that rice metabonome was dominated by more than 30 metabolites including sugars, organic acids, amino acids, and choline metabolites. BPH infestation caused profound metabolic changes for both BPH-susceptible and resistant rice plants involving transamination, GABA shunt, TCA cycle, gluconeogenesis/glycolysis, pentose phosphate pathway, and secondary metabolisms. BPH infestation caused more drastic overall metabolic changes for BPH-susceptible variety and more marked up-regulations for key genes regulating GABA shunt and biosynthesis of secondary metabolites for BPH-resistant variety. Such observations indicated that activation of GABA shunt and shikimate-mediated secondary metabolisms was vital for rice plants to resist BPH infestation. These findings filled the gap of our understandings in the mechanistic aspects of BPH resistance for rice plants and demonstrated the combined metabonomic and qRT-PCR analysis as an effective approach for understanding plant-herbivore interactions.
20937104	Foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.), one of the most ancient domesticated crops, is becoming a model system for studying biofuel crops and comparative genomics in the grasses. However, knowledge on the level of genetic diversity and linkage disequilibrium (LD) is very limited in this crop and its wild ancestor, green foxtail (Setaria viridis (L.) P. Beauv.). Such information would help us to understand the domestication process of cultivated species and will allow further research in these species, including association mapping and identification of agricultural significant genes involved in domestication. In this study, we surveyed DNA sequence for nine loci across 50 accessions of cultivated foxtail millet and 34 of its wild progenitor. We found a low level of genetic diversity in wild green foxtail (θ = 0.0059), θ means Watterson's estimator of θ. Despite of a 55% loss of its wild diversity, foxtail millet still harbored a considerable level of diversity (θ = 0.0027) when compared to rice and sorghum (θ = 0.0024 and 0.0034, respectively). The level of LD in the domesticated foxtail millet extends to 1 kb, while it decayed rapidly to a negligible level within 150 bp in wild green foxtail. Using coalescent simulation, we estimated the bottleneck severity at k = 0.6095 when ρ/θ = 1. These results indicated that the domestication bottleneck of foxtail millet was more severe than that of maize but slightly less pronounced than that of rice. The results in this study establish a general framework for the domestication history of foxtail millet. The low level of genetic diversity and the increased level of LD in foxtail millet are mainly caused by a population bottleneck, although gene flow from foxtail millet to green foxtail is another factor that may have shaped the pattern of genetic diversity of these two related gene pools. The knowledge provided in this study will benefit future population based studies in foxtail millet.
20937347	The present study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of feeding blended and interesterified oils prepared using coconut oil (CNO) with rice bran oil (RBO) or sesame oil (SESO), with a polyunsaturated/saturated (P/S) ratio of 0.8-1.0, on oxidative stress and endogenous antioxidant system. Feeding blended oils resulted in significantly increased hepatic lipid peroxide levels in rats given blended oil CNO+RBO or CNO+SESO by 1.3 and 1.6-fold, respectively compared to rats fed diet containing CNO. The lipid peroxide level in erythrocyte membrane also increased in rats fed blended oil compared to rats fed with CNO. Rats fed interesterified oils prepared from these blended oils also showed increased lipid peroxide level compared to rats given CNO diet, however it was not significantly different from rats fed with their respective blends. There was a significant increase in the activity of endogenous antioxidant enzymes super oxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-s-transferase after feeding blended and interesterified oils. The activities of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and Ca(2+)/Mg(2+)-ATPase were increased in rats fed blended and interesterified oils. These results indicated that the P/S ratio of dietary fat is an important factor in determining the oxidative stress, activity of endogenous antioxidant enzymes and activity of membrane bound enzymes.
20937890	Aluminum (Al) is the most abundant metal in the Earth's crust, but its trivalent ionic form is highly toxic to all organisms at low concentrations. How Al enters cells has not been elucidated in any organisms. Herein, we report a transporter, Nrat1 (Nramp aluminum transporter 1), specific for trivalent Al ion in rice. Nrat1 belongs to the Nramp (natural resistance-associated macrophage protein) family, but shares a low similarity with other Nramp members. When expressed in yeast, Nrat1 transports trivalent Al ion, but not other divalent ions, such as manganese, iron, and cadmium, or the Al-citrate complex. Nrat1 is localized at the plasma membranes of all cells of root tips except epidermal cells. Knockout of Nrat1 resulted in decreased Al uptake, increased Al binding to cell wall, and enhanced Al sensitivity, but did not affect the tolerance to other metals. Expression of Nrat1 is up-regulated by Al in the roots and regulated by a C2H2 zinc finger transcription factor (ART1). We therefore concluded that Nrat1 is a plasma membrane-localized transporter for trivalent Al, which is required for a prior step of final Al detoxification through sequestration of Al into vacuoles.
20937895	Cytosine methylation silences transposable elements in plants, vertebrates, and fungi but also regulates gene expression. Plant methylation is catalyzed by three families of enzymes, each with a preferred sequence context: CG, CHG (H = A, C, or T), and CHH, with CHH methylation targeted by the RNAi pathway. Arabidopsis thaliana endosperm, a placenta-like tissue that nourishes the embryo, is globally hypomethylated in the CG context while retaining high non-CG methylation. Global methylation dynamics in seeds of cereal crops that provide the bulk of human nutrition remain unknown. Here, we show that rice endosperm DNA is hypomethylated in all sequence contexts. Non-CG methylation is reduced evenly across the genome, whereas CG hypomethylation is localized. CHH methylation of small transposable elements is increased in embryos, suggesting that endosperm demethylation enhances transposon silencing. Genes preferentially expressed in endosperm, including those coding for major storage proteins and starch synthesizing enzymes, are frequently hypomethylated in endosperm, indicating that DNA methylation is a crucial regulator of rice endosperm biogenesis. Our data show that genome-wide reshaping of seed DNA methylation is conserved among angiosperms and has a profound effect on gene expression in cereal crops.
20938801	In this article, we report an independent work of positional cloning and functional characterization of OsJAG gene in rice. The merit of our work is that we used a genuine null mutant, in which the wild-type allele was completely deleted. This allowed us to identify the mutant phenotypes accurately without the interference of residual function of the target gene. OsJAG is an important gene with pleiotropy, expressing almost throughout the plant and acting in both vegetative phase and reproductive phase. But its main and crucial roles are in regulating the development of all floral organs, especially in specifying the identity of stamens. Interestingly, OsJAG does not affect the number of floral organ primordial and so of floral organs in each whorl, suggesting that OsJAG does not influence the initiation of floral organ primordia, but affect the developmental fate of all floral organs after their primordia have initiated. Loss of OsJAG function results in maldevelopment of all floral organs, such as degenerated lemma and palea, elongated lodicules and deformed and sterile pistil. The stamen appears to be more sensitive to the mutation. All the six stamens in a mutant floret were thoroughly transformed into six pistil-like organs developed at the presumptive positions of the stamens in whorl 3.
20939352	Based on microwave-assisted decomposition and dry ashing methods, the concentrations of Al, As, B, Ba, Ca, Cd, Co, Cr, Cs, Cu, Fe, Hg, K, Mg, Mn, Mo, Na, Ni, P, Pb, Rb, S, Se, Sr, T1, V and Zn in sixteen Chinese rice samples and eleven Japanese rice samples were analysed by using ICP-OES and ICP-MS, and a biological standard reference material rice (GBW10010) was used to verify the accuracy and the precision of analytical method. It was demonstrated that ICP-MS equipped with a collision cell technique can be successfully used for reducing polyatomic interferences in the detection of elements with low m/z ratios. Compared with those in Japanese rice samples, the concentrations of Al, S and Sr in Chinese rice samples are significantly high, and the concentrations of B, Cd, Cs, Mg, Mo, P, Pb and Zn in Chinese rice samples are much lower (P < 0.05). The Ward's method of cluster analysis applied to the concentrations of 26 elements except T1 whose concentration is below the detection limit exhibited the ability to effectively differentiate Chinese rice samples from Japanese rice samples. Moreover, it was found that the concentrations of magnesium correlate very well with the concentrations of phosphorus in all rice samples, with the correlation coefficient being as high as 0.9552.
20940062	Type 1 non-symbiotic rice hemoglobin (rHb1) shows bis-histidyl heme hexacoordination and is capable of binding diatomic ligands reversibly. The biological function is as yet unclear, but the high oxygen affinity makes it unlikely to be involved in oxygen transport. In order to gain insight into possible physiological roles, we have studied CO rebinding kinetics after laser flash photolysis of rHb1 in solution and encapsulated in silica gel. CO rebinding to wt rHb1 in solution occurs through a fast geminate phase with no sign of rebinding from internal docking sites. Encapsulation in silica gel enhances migration to internal cavities. Site-directed mutagenesis of FB10, a residue known to have a key role in the regulation of hexacoordination and ligand affinity, resulted in substantial effects on the rebinding kinetics, partly inhibiting ligand exit to the solvent, enhancing geminate rebinding and enabling ligand migration within the internal cavities. The mutation of HE7, one of the histidyl residues involved in the hexacoordination, prevents hexacoordination, as expected, but also exposes ligand migration through a complex system of cavities. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Protein Dynamics: Experimental and Computational Approaches.
20940349	Rice (Oryza sativa) seed storage proteins (SSPs) are synthesized and deposited in storage organelles in the endosperm during seed maturation as a nitrogen source for germinating seedlings. We have generated glutelin, globulin, and prolamin knockdown lines and have examined their effects on seed quality. A reduction of one or a few SSP(s) was compensated for by increases in other SSPs at both the mRNA and protein levels. Especially, reduction of glutelins or sulfur-rich 10-kD prolamin levels was preferentially compensated by sulfur-poor or other sulfur-rich prolamins, respectively, indicating that sulfur-containing amino acids are involved in regulating SSP composition. Furthermore, a reduction in the levels of 13-kD prolamin resulted in enhancement of the total lysine content by 56% when compared with the wild type. This observation can be mainly accounted for by the increase in lysine-rich proteins. Although reducing the level of glutelins slightly decreased protein storage vacuoles (PSVs), the simultaneous reduction of glutelin and globulin levels altered the inner structure of PSVs, implicating globulin in framing PSV formation. Knock down of 13-kD prolamins not only reduced the size of endoplasmic reticulum-derived protein bodies (PBs) but also altered the rugged peripheral structure. In contrast, PBs became slightly smaller or unchanged by severe suppression of 10- or 16-kD prolamins, respectively, indicating that individual prolamins have distinct functions in the formation of PBs. Extreme increases or decreases in sulfur-poor prolamins resulted in the production of small PBs, suggesting that the ratio of individual prolamins is crucial for proper aggregation and folding of prolamins.
20941508	MicroRNAs are a class of endogenous small RNA molecules (20-24 nucleotides) that have pivotal roles in regulating gene expression mostly at posttranscriptional levels in plants. Plant microRNAs have been implicated in the regulation of diverse biological processes including growth and stress responses. However, the information about microRNAs in regulating abiotic stress responses in rice is limited. We optimized a one-tube stem-loop reverse transcription quantitative PCR (ST-RT qPCR) for high-throughput expression profiling analysis of microRNAs in rice under normal and stress conditions. The optimized ST-RT qPCR method was as accurate as small RNA gel blotting and was more convenient and time-saving than other methods in quantifying microRNAs. With this method, 41 rice microRNAs were quantified for their relative expression levels after drought, salt, cold, and abscisic acid (ABA) treatments. Thirty-two microRNAs showed induced or suppressed expression after stress or ABA treatment. Further analysis suggested that stress-responsive cis-elements were enriched in the promoters of stress-responsive microRNA genes. The expressions of five and seven microRNAs were significantly affected in the rice plant with defects in stress tolerance regulatory genes OsSKIPa and OsbZIP23, respectively. Some of the predicted target genes of these microRNAs were also related to abiotic stresses. We conclude that ST-RT qPCR is an efficient and reliable method for expression profiling of microRNAs and a significant portion of rice microRNAs participate in abiotic stress response and regulation.
20941841
20942339	Urine contains a considerable amount of nutrients and potentially could be used as supplement commercial mineral fertilizer; however, it carries risk of contamination. The effect of urine storage as a simple treatment method was examined under tropical conditions. Initial concentrations of total coliforms (2.3 x 10(5) CFU/100 mL), E. coli (<1.0 x 10(4) CFU/100 mL), and Salmonella sp. were less than detection limit after four weeks. Open storage led to nitrogen losses of 90%, whereas closed storage containers retained 93% of total nitrogen. Under storage, the N:P ratio of 8:1 in fresh urine changed to 14:1 in the supernatant and to 1:12 in the precipitate, and 100% of magnesium and 96% of calcium was precipitated. A model showed that, depending on plant requirements, using the mixture of supernatant and precipitate as fertilizer for crops such as cassava was reasonable. To fertilize crops such as rice, however, additional P and K was needed. The nutrient-based flux of heavy metals to soils was negligible.
20942537	The effect of particle size on combustion efficiency is an important factor in combustion research. Gas-phase aluminum clusters in oxidizing environment constitute a relatively simple and extensively studied system. In an attempt to underscore the correlation between electronic structure, finite size effect, and reactivity in small aluminum clusters, reactions between aluminum, [Al(13)](-) cluster, and Teflon decomposition fragments were studied using theoretical calculations at the density functional theoretical level. The unimolecular rate constants calculated using transition state and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory show that reactions with COF and CF(2) species with aluminum are faster than those involving CF(3) and COF(2). The results show that the kinetic barriers along different exothermic reaction channels correlate with the trends in HOMO(R)-HOMO(TS) (HOMO denotes highest occupied molecular orbital) energy gap and related shifts of the HOMO levels of reactants. Overall reactions involving carbonyl fluoride species (COF and COF(2)) lead to CO elimination and fluorination of the Al cluster. The CF(3)/CF(2) fragments lead to stable multicenter Al-C bond formation on the fluorinated Al cluster surface. Temperature-, energy-, and pressure-dependent rate constants are provided for extrapolating the expected reaction kinetics to conditions similar to known combustion reactions.
20943254	This study examined the advantages of the use of biomarkers as an early warning system by applying it to different shrimp farming systems in Soctrang and Camau provinces, main shrimp producers in Mekong River Delta, Vietnam. Shrimp were collected at 15 different farms divided into four different farming systems: three farms were converted from originally rice paddies into intensive shrimp farming systems (IS1, IS2, IS3); three farms were rice-shrimp integrated farming systems (RS4, RS5, RS6); three farms were intensive farming systems (IS7, IS8, IS9); six farms were extensive shrimp farming systems (From ES1 to ES6). Lipid peroxidation (LPO) and total glutathione (GSH) were measured as well as catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and acetylcholinesterase activities (ACHE). Organ specificity was observed between gills and hepatopancreas with generally higher activity of GST in gills (GSTG) whereas the contrary was observed for LPO level in gills (LPOG). Hierarchical clustering and principal component analysis clearly indicated that shrimp reared in extensive culture system formed a distinct group from those reared in intensive or rice-shrimp integrated systems. CAT in gills (CATG), GPX in gills (GPXG) and hepatopancreas (GPXHP) and ACHE in muscle (ACHEM) of shrimp collected in extensive farms showed a general higher level than those in intensively farmed shrimp. On the contrary, we observed clear high levels of GSTG and GST in hepatopancreas (GSTHP) and LPOG and hepatopancreas (LPOHP) of shrimp sampled in intensive and rice-shrimp integrated systems. Thus, we propose that LPO and CAT, GPX, GST and ACHE can be used as a set of biomarkers for the assessment of health condition and can discriminate between shrimp cultivated in different farming systems. These findings provide the usefulness of integrating a set of biomarkers to define the health status of shrimp in different shrimp culture systems.
20943495	A rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutant with a high-tillering capacity, designated as ht1, was found from a japonica rice variety Xindao18. This high-tillering mutant phenotype was stably expressed through successive five self-crossed generations, and the number of tillers in mutants was three times more than that in wild-type rice. Genetic analysis showed that the phenotype of ht1was controlled by a single dominant nuclear gene, temporarily designated as HT1. By means of molecular marker technique, the HT1 gene was mapped to an interval between two SSR markers RM25435 and RM25552 on chro-mosome 10. Through high-resolution linkage analysis, the HT1 gene was further restricted to a 0.1 cM region flanked by two SSR markers RM25523 and RM25532. The physical distance between these two markers is about 130kb.
20943499	Gibberellin (GA) production by soil fungi has received little attention, although substantial work has been carried out on other aspects of plant growth promoting fungi (PGPF). In our studies we investigated GA production and growth-promoting capacity of a novel fungal strain isolated from the roots of soil-grown cucumber. Pure cultures of 19 endophytic fungi were tested for shoot length promotion of Waito-C rice to identify the GA production capacity of these fungal isolates. Isolate MH-6 significantly increased shoot length (12.9 cm) of Waito-C, in comparison to control treatments. Bioassay with culture filtrate (CF) of MH-6 also significantly promoted growth attributes of cucumber plants. Analysis of MH-6 CF showed the presence of physiologically active (GA1, 1.97 ng/mL; GA3, 5.18 ng/mL; GA4, 13.35 ng/mL and GA7, 2.4 ng/ mL) in conjunction with physiologically inactive (GA9 [0.69 ng/mL], GA12 [0.24 ng/mL], GA15 [0.68 ng/ mL, GA19 [1.94 ng/mL and GA20 [0.78 ng/mL]) gibberellins. The CF of MH-6 produced greater amounts of GA3, GA4, GA7 and GA19 than wild type Fusarium fujikuroi, a fungus known for high production of GA. The fungal isolate MH-6 was identified as a new strain of Cladosporium sp. on the basis of sequence homology (99%) and phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA sequence.
20944397	We have conducted transcriptome analysis and have identified a number of genes that are upregulated by treatment with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress inducer tunicamycin. Here we focused on one particular gene of unknown function. This gene, designated tunicamycin induced 1 (TIN1), encodes an open reading frame consisting of 424 amino acids with a putative signal peptide. TIN1 orthologs are present in several plant species, including poplar, rice, and moss, but not in other organisms, including yeast and animals. Transcriptional induction of TIN1 by ER stress was regulated in part by AtbZIP60, a membrane-bound transcription factor activating many ER stress-responsive genes. In agreement with increases of TIN1 transcripts, the TIN1 protein accumulated in response to tunicamycin treatment. It was localized at the ER when fused with a fluorescent protein. These results represent a first step toward elucidating the molecular function of TIN1.
20944400	Clay wall (tsuchikabe in Japanese) material for Japanese traditional buildings is manufactured by fermenting a mixture of clay, sand, and rice straw. The aim of this study was to understand the fermentation process in order to gain insight into the ways waste biomass can be used to produce useful materials. In this study, in addition to Clostridium, we suggested that the family Nectriaceae and the Scutellinia sp. of fungi were important in degrading cell wall materials of rice straw, such as cellulose and/or lignin. The microorganisms in the clay wall material produced sulfur-containing inorganic compounds that may sulfurate minerals in clay particles, and polysaccharides that give viscosity to clay wall material, thus increasing workability for plastering, and possibly giving water-resistance to the dried clay wall.
20945062	The analytical method for the residue analysis of a novel herbicide, oxaziclomefone, and its dissipation in soil, water, rice plants and husked rice in rice fields at GAP (Good Agricultural Practices) conditions were studied. Oxaziclomefone residues were determined by GC-NPD. Mean recoveries ranged from 84.4 to 108.2% with relative standard deviations (RSDs) of 2.4 to 17.2% at three different spiking levels for each different matrix. The limits of quantification (LOQ) were found to be 0.01 mg/kg in soil, water, rice plants and husked rice and 0.02 mg/kg in rice hull. The mean half-lives of oxaziclomefone residues in water, soil and rice plants were 11.3, 37 and 4.4 days, respectively. At harvest, soil, straw, rice hull and husked rice samples were found to contain oxaziclomefone below the maximum residue level (0.1 mg/kg) set by Japan and Korea. Following the recommended application method, this herbicide is therefore safe to apply to rice fields.
20945487	Producing economically competitive recombinant human lysozyme from transgenic rice demands an inexpensive purification process for nonpharmaceutical applications. Human lysozyme is a basic protein, and thus, cation exchange chromatography was the selected method for lysozyme purification. Similar to other protein production systems, the identification of critical impurities in the rice extract was important for the development of an efficient purification process. Previous adsorption data indicated that phytic acid was probably responsible for an unacceptably low cation exchange adsorption capacity. In this study, we confirm that reducing phytic acid concentration improves lysozyme binding capacity and investigate alternative process conditions that reduce phytic acid interference. Compared with the previous best process, the adsorption capacity of human lysozyme was increased from 8.6 to 19.7 mg/mL when rice extract was treated with phytase to degrade phytic acid. Using tris buffer to adjust pH 4.5 extract to pH 6 before adsorption reduced phytic acid interference by minimizing phytic acid-lysozyme interactions, eliminated the need for phytase treatment, and increased the binding capacity to 25 mg/mL. Another method of reducing phytic acid concentration was to extract human lysozyme from rice flour at pH 10 with 50 mM NaCl in 50 mM sodium carbonate buffer. A similar binding capacity (25.5 mg/mL) was achieved from pH 10 extract that was clarified by acidic precipitation and adjusted to pH 6 for adsorption. Lysozyme purities ranged from 95 to 98% for all three processing methods. The tris-mediated purification was the most efficient of the alternatives considered.
20946420	Starch quality is one of the most important agronomic traits in Asian rice, Oryza sativa. Starch synthase IIa (SsIIa) is a major candidate gene for starch quality variation. Within SsIIa, three nonsynonymous mutations in exon 8 have been shown to affect enzyme activity when expressed in Escherichia coli. To search for the variation in SsIIa that is responsible for starch quality variation in rice, we sequenced the SsIIa exon 8 region and measured starch quality as starch disintegration in alkali for 289 accessions of cultivated rice and 57 accessions of its wild ancestor, Oryza rufipogon. A general linear model and nested clade analysis were used to identify the associations between the three nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and starch quality. Among the three nonsynonymous SNPs, we found strong evidence of association at one nucleotide site ('SNP 3'), corresponding to a Leu/Phe replacement at codon 781. A second SNP, corresponding to a Val/Met replacement at codon 737, could potentially show an association with increased sample sizes. Variation in SsIIa enzyme activity is associated with the cohesiveness of rice grains when cooked, and our findings are consistent with selection for more cohesive grains during the domestication of tropical japonica rice.
20946946	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc), which caused bacterial leaf streak in rice, is a bacterial pathogen limited to the apoplast of the mesophyll tissue. The rpfF that encodes diffusible signal factor (DSF) synthase, played a key role in the virulence of many plant pathogenic bacteria. In this study, the rpf gene cluster was cloned, and the rpfF was deleted in Xoc. It was observed that the rpfF mutant lost the ability to produce DSF molecular, and exhibited a significant reduction of virulence in rice compared to the wild-type strain. Furthermore, the mutation of rpfF impaired EPS production, and led to Xoc cell aggregation. To analyze the differences of proteome expression between Xoc wild type and rpfF mutant, a comparative proteome analysis was performed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). The results clearly revealed that 48 protein spots were differentially expressed above the threshold ratio of 1.5. Among them, 18 proteins were identified by MS, which were involved in nitrogen transfer, protein folding, elimination of superoxide radicals and flagellar formation. Our results indicated that DSF might play an important role in virulence and growth of Xoc by mediating expression of proteins.
20947104	Consumption of almonds has been associated with increased bone mineral density, but the direct effects of almonds on bone cells are not known. We determined whether serum obtained following the consumption of a meal containing 60 g of almonds affects human osteoclast formation, function, and gene expression in vitro. Human osteoclast precursors were cultured in medium containing 10% serum obtained from 14 healthy subjects at baseline and 4 hours following the consumption of 3 test meals containing almonds, potatoes, and rice and balanced for macronutrient composition. Osteoclast formation was determined by the number of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)(+) multinucleated cells, and osteoclast function was assessed by measuring TRAP activity in the culture medium and calcium released from OsteoAssay (Lonza Walkersville, Walkersville, MD, USA) plates. The expression of cathepsin K, receptor activator of nuclear factor kB, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 genes was measured by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Compared with serum obtained at baseline, serum obtained 4 hours following the consumption of the almond meal reduced osteoclast formation by approximately 20%, TRAP activity by approximately 15%, calcium release by approximately 65%, and the expression of cathepsin K, receptor activator of nuclear factor kB, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 by 13% to 23%. No effects were observed with serum obtained from the other test meals. Serum obtained 4 hours following the consumption of an almond meal inhibits osteoclast formation, function, and gene expression in cultured human osteoclast precursors, and provides evidence for a positive effect of almonds on bone health.
20947339	In the fermentation process of lignocellulosic biomass (such as wood and rice straw), efficient conversion of pentose (mainly xylose) into ethanol is important. Mutants of Pichia stipitis NBRC1687 were obtained after UV mutagenesis and selection of large colonies on ethanol-containing medium. One mutant, PXF58, produced 4.3% ethanol from 11.4% xylose while the parent strain only produced 3.1%. The ethanol productivities of PXF58 from glucose and fructose were about were about 1.4-fold higher than those of the parent strain. After continuous cultivation of PXF58 in YNB (yeast nitrogen base) medium containing 2% xylose and 5-7% ethanol, an ethanol-tolerant mutant, PET41, was obtained. Strain PET41 was able to produce 4.4% ethanol when first supplied with xylose then with glucose. This isolate might be thus useful for two-phase fermentation in which xylan is saccharified by xylanase to produce xylose, and glucan is saccharified later by cellulase and β-glucosidase to produce glucose.
20948293	Apoplastic Ca(2+) concentration controls membrane permeability, cell wall stabilization, and cell integrity; however, little is known about its role in thermotolerance in plants. Here, we report that the acquired thermotolerance of etiolated rice seedlings (Oryza sativa) was abolished by an exogenously supplied Ca(2+) chelator, EGTA, related to increased cellular content leakage during heat shock (HS) treatment. Thermotolerance was restored by the addition of Ca(2+) during EGTA incubation. Pectin methylesterase (EC 3.1.1.11), a cell-wall remodeling enzyme, was activated in response to HS, and its elevated activity was related to the recovery of the HS-released Ca(2+) concentration. EGTA interfered with the capability of HS to increase oscillation of [Ca(2+)]cyt content. We assume that heat-activated PME activity is involved in cell-wall-localized Ca(2+). The removal of apoplastic Ca(2+) might participate in HS signaling to induce HS protein expression and cell-wall remodeling to retain plasma membrane integrity, prevent cellular content leakage and confer thermoprotection.
20948297	Waterlogging or flooding are frequently or constitutively encountered by many plant species. The resulting reduction in endogenous O2 concentration poses a severe threat. Numerous adaptations at the anatomical, morphological and metabolic level help plants to either escape low oxygen conditions or to endure them. Formation of aerenchyma or rapid shoot elongation are escape responses, as is the formation of adventitious roots. The metabolic shift from aerobic respiration to anaerobic fermentation contributes to a basal energy supply at low oxygen conditions. Ethylene plays a central role in hypoxic stress signaling, and G proteins have been recognized as crucial signal transducers in various hypoxic signaling pathways. The programmed death of parenchyma cells that results in hypoxia-induced aerenchyma formation is an ethylene response. In maize, aerenchyma are induced in the absence of ethylene when G proteins are constitutively activated. Similarly, ethylene induced death of epidermal cells that cover adventitious roots at the stem node of rice is strictly dependent on heterotrimeric G protein activity. Knock down of the unique Gα gene RGA1 in rice prevents epidermal cell death. Finally, in Arabidopsis, induction of alcohol dehydrogenase with resulting increased plant survival relies on the balanced activities of a small Rop G protein and its deactivating protein RopGAP4. Identifying the general mechanisms of G protein signaling in hypoxia adaptation of plants is one of the tasks ahead.
20948407	Tuberculosis (TB) is still endemic in many developed countries. Involvement of the hand and wrist at presentation is extremely rare, and the diagnosis is often missed. Operative findings of "rice bodies, millet seeds, or melon seeds" are highly suggestive of tuberculous tenosynovitis. Six patients with TB of the hand and wrist at various stages of disease with characteristic operative findings are reviewed. Four patients had underlying immunosuppression. One patient had previous pulmonary TB, whereas 3 patients had radiographic evidence of previously undiagnosed pulmonary TB. The interval to presentation ranged from 1 week to 2 years. Two patients had median nerve irritation, 3 patients had osteomyelitis, and 1 patient had flexor tendon rupture. Mycobacterial cultures were positive in 4 patients; acid-fast bacilli stain, and polymerase chain reaction were positive in remaining 1 patient; and both stain and culture were negative in the last patient who had history of pulmonary TB. All 6 patients were managed with combination therapy comprising antituberculous chemotherapy and at least 1 debulking tenosynovectomy. Two patients had 2 debridements. Of these 2 patients, 1 underwent wrist arthrodesis during the second procedure. Mean follow-up was 4 years. There were no recurrences after the most recent debridement. The diagnosis of TB of the hand and wrist is often missed. The surgeon has to be aware of the significance of loose bodies when performing routine excision of innocuous looking wrist ganglia. Combination therapy comprising thorough excisional debridement and antituberculous chemotherapy will minimize recurrence of this difficult-to-treat disease.
20949308	Leucine-rich repeat proteins constitute a large gene family and play important roles in plant growth and development. Among them, Arabidopsis PIRL is a plant-specific class of intracellular Ras-group-related leucine-rich repeat proteins. In this study, we identified eight homologues of PIRLs in rice and designated them as OsIRL proteins. We described the gene structures, chromosome localizations, protein motifs, and phylogenetic relationships of the OsIRL gene family. The expression profiles of OsIRL genes were analyzed throughout the entire rice life cycle, along with light and three hormone stress conditions, using quantitative RT-PCR and microarray data. All OsIRL genes were expressed in at least one experimental stage and exhibited divergent expression patterns, with several genes showing preferential expression at specific stages. OsIRL4 and OsIRL5 showed higher expression levels under light compared to dark. OsIRL4 and OsIRL7 exhibited significant differential expression in response to hormone treatments. Six T-DNA or Tos17 insertion lines for five individual OsIRL genes were identified and examined morphologically. The comprehensive expression profile elucidated in this investigation together with the characterized insertion lines will provide a solid foundation for in-depth dissection of OsIRL functions.
20949317	The rapid development of transgenic biotechnology has greatly promoted the breeding of genetically engineered (GE) rice in China, and many GE rice lines are in the pipeline for commercialization. To understand field performances of GE rice, key agronomic traits of two insect-resistant Bt rice lines that have been granted biosafety certificates for commercial production in China were evaluated together with their nontransgenic counterparts under environmental conditions with significant differences in insect pressure. Results from the experiments showed enhanced field performances of the Bt GE rice lines compared with the non-GE counterparts for yield-related traits such as number of panicles and filled seeds per plant, under environmental conditions with no insecticide application. No detectable underlying cost of the Bt transgene was observed in the two insect-resistant GE rice lines, particularly in the GE hybrid rice line. Results further indicated significantly greater yield performances of the two insect-resistant GE rice lines under environmental conditions with non-target insect control compared with no insect control. It is concluded from this study that insect-resistant Bt GE rice, particularly the hybrid line, has great potential to maintain its high yield when ambient insect pressure is high. In addition, proper application of insecticides to control non-target insects will guarantee optimal performance of insect-resistant Bt GE rice.
20949549	High resistance of brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens Stål to common insecticides is a challenge for control of the pest. An alternative control strategy based on the combined application of fungal and chemical agents has been evaluated. Three gradient spore concentrations of oil-formulated Metarhizium anisopliae (Metschnikoff) Sorokin (Ma456) were sprayed onto third-instar nymphs in five bioassays comprising the low buprofezin rates of 0, 10, 20, 30 and 40 µg mL(-1) respectively. Fungal LC(50) after 1 week at 25 °C and 14:10 h light:dark photoperiod decreased from 386 conidia mm(-2) in the buprofezin-free bioassay to 40 at the highest chemical rate. Buprofezin (LC(50): 1647, 486 and 233 µg mL(-1) on days 2 to 4) had no significant effect on the fungal outgrowths of mycosis-killed cadavers at the low application rates. The fungal infection was found to cause 81% reduction in reproductive potential of BPH adults. In two 40 day field trials, significant planthopper (mainly BPH) control (54-60%) was achieved by biweekly sprays of two fungal candidates (Ma456 and Ma576) at 1.5 × 10(13) conidia ha(-1) and elevated to 80-83% by incorporating 30.8 g buprofezin ha(-1) into the fungal sprays. The combined application of the fungal and chemical agents is a promising alternative strategy for BPH control.
20950261	Water soluble polysaccharides are currently finding increasing use as a basis material for plasma volume expander. In clinical setting it is desirable to have a precise knowledge of steric and chemical structure, since these affect the pharmacokinetics and pharmacology of plasma volume expander. Branch component of starch amylopectin is very similar in structure to glycogen, the reserve polysaccharide of animal and therefore is liable to be compatible with body tissue. The knowledge of weight average molecular mass, degree of branching, osmotic pressure and coil dimension are essential, since low molecular mass do not have desirable effect and large molar mass have undesirable effect. Assam Bora rice starch was characterized by polymer analysis for use as plasma volume expander. Characterization involves the determination of FTIR spectra, degree of branching by H1 NMR, osmotic pressure by internal measurement technique, establishment of Mark-Houwink relationship and determination of Molecular weight - viscosity relationship.
20950453	Molecular genetic studies of floral development have concentrated on several core eudicots and grasses (monocots), which have canalized floral forms. Basal eudicots possess a wider range of floral morphologies than the core eudicots and grasses and can serve as an evolutionary link between core eudicots and monocots, and provide a reference for studies of other basal angiosperms. Recent advances in genomics have enabled researchers to profile gene activities during floral development, primarily in the eudicot Arabidopsis thaliana and the monocots rice and maize. However, our understanding of floral developmental processes among the basal eudicots remains limited. Using a recently generated expressed sequence tag (EST) set, we have designed an oligonucleotide microarray for the basal eudicot Eschscholzia californica (California poppy). We performed microarray experiments with an interwoven-loop design in order to characterize the E. californica floral transcriptome and to identify differentially expressed genes in flower buds with pre-meiotic and meiotic cells, four floral organs at preanthesis stages (sepals, petals, stamens and carpels), developing fruits, and leaves. Our results provide a foundation for comparative gene expression studies between eudicots and basal angiosperms. We identified whorl-specific gene expression patterns in E. californica and examined the floral expression of several gene families. Interestingly, most E. californica homologs of Arabidopsis genes important for flower development, except for genes encoding MADS-box transcription factors, show different expression patterns between the two species. Our comparative transcriptomics study highlights the unique evolutionary position of E. californica compared with basal angiosperms and core eudicots.
20950470	Cucumber, Cucumis sativus L. is an important vegetable crop worldwide. Until very recently, cucumber genetic and genomic resources, especially molecular markers, have been very limited, impeding progress of cucumber breeding efforts. Microsatellites are short tandemly repeated DNA sequences, which are frequently favored as genetic markers due to their high level of polymorphism and codominant inheritance. Data from previously characterized genomes has shown that these repeats vary in frequency, motif sequence, and genomic location across taxa. During the last year, the genomes of two cucumber genotypes were sequenced including the Chinese fresh market type inbred line '9930' and the North American pickling type inbred line 'Gy14'. These sequences provide a powerful tool for developing markers in a large scale. In this study, we surveyed and characterized the distribution and frequency of perfect microsatellites in 203 Mbp assembled Gy14 DNA sequences, representing 55% of its nuclear genome, and in cucumber EST sequences. Similar analyses were performed in genomic and EST data from seven other plant species, and the results were compared with those of cucumber. A total of 112,073 perfect repeats were detected in the Gy14 cucumber genome sequence, accounting for 0.9% of the assembled Gy14 genome, with an overall density of 551.9 SSRs/Mbp. While tetranucleotides were the most frequent microsatellites in genomic DNA sequence, dinucleotide repeats, which had more repeat units than any other SSR type, had the highest cumulative sequence length. Coding regions (ESTs) of the cucumber genome had fewer microsatellites compared to its genomic sequence, with trinucleotides predominating in EST sequences. AAG was the most frequent repeat in cucumber ESTs. Overall, AT-rich motifs prevailed in both genomic and EST data. Compared to the other species examined, cucumber genomic sequence had the highest density of SSRs (although comparable to the density of poplar, grapevine and rice), and was richest in AT dinucleotides. Using an electronic PCR strategy, we investigated the polymorphism between 9930 and Gy14 at 1,006 SSR loci, and found unexpectedly high degree of polymorphism (48.3%) between the two genotypes. The level of polymorphism seems to be positively associated with the number of repeat units in the microsatellite. The in silico PCR results were validated empirically in 660 of the 1,006 SSR loci. In addition, primer sequences for more than 83,000 newly-discovered cucumber microsatellites, and their exact positions in the Gy14 genome assembly were made publicly available. The cucumber genome is rich in microsatellites; AT and AAG are the most abundant repeat motifs in genomic and EST sequences of cucumber, respectively. Considering all the species investigated, some commonalities were noted, especially within the monocot and dicot groups, although the distribution of motifs and the frequency of certain repeats were characteristic of the species examined. The large number of SSR markers developed from this study should be a significant contribution to the cucurbit research community.
20950574	Plant architecture is a major trait for plant survival and plant fitness and has a huge influence on the agronomical value for most crops. The classical theory of apical dominance based on decapitation experiments suggested that two major plant hormones, auxin and cytokinins, were acting antagonistically on bud outgrowth to promote or repress branching. However this theory was challenged in the late 1930's by Snow who suggested the existence of a second messenger to auxin, as auxin was not acting directly to repress branching. The use of branching mutants in pea, Arabidopsis and rice led to the discovery of a new carotenoid-derived signal repressing branching. Genes involved in synthesis (RMS1, RMS5) as well as in response (RMS4) to this new signal have been identified and have given rise to a new model of the branching control. Two independent group have recently shown, one on pea, the other on rice, that strigolactones correspond to this novel signal which represses branching and to the secondary messenger in the theory of apical dominance. Strigolactones have been first identified for their role in germination of parasitic plants like Striga or Orobanche. They also play a critical role in the widespread association between 80% of plants and fungi, the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis, as they are necessary for interaction between certain plants and fungi in the rhizosphere.
20950814	Auxin is a crucial phytohormone for precise control of growth and development of plants. Due to its low concentration in plant tissues which are rich in interfering substances, the accurate determination of auxins remains a challenge. In this paper, a new strategy for isolation and enrichment of auxins from plant tissues was obtained by the magnetic molecularly imprinted polymer (mag-MIP) beads, which were prepared by microwave heating initiated suspension polymerization using indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) as template. In order to obtain higher selective recognition cavities, an enhanced imprinting method based on binary functional monomers, 4-vinylpyridine (4-VP) and β-cyclodextrin (β-CD), was adopted for IAA imprinting. The morphological and magnetic characteristics of the mag-MIP beads were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy and vibrating sample magnetometry. A majority of resultant beads were within the size range of 80-150μm. Porous surface morphology and good magnetic property were observed. Furthermore, the mag-MIP beads fabricated with 4-VP and β-CD as binary functional monomers exhibited improved recognition ability to IAA, as compared with the mag-MIP beads prepared with the individual monomer separately. Competitive rebinding experiment results revealed that the mag-MIP beads exhibited a higher specific recognition for the template than the non-imprinted polymer (mag-NIP) beads. An extraction method by mag-MIP beads coupled with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was developed for determination of IAA and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) in plant tissues. Linear ranges for IAA and IBA were in the range of 7.00-100.0μgL(-1) and 10.0-100.0μgL(-1), and the detection limits were 3.9 and 7.4μgL(-1), respectively. The analytical performance was also estimated by seedlings or immature embryos samples from three different plant tissues, pea, rice and wheat. Recoveries were in the range of 70.1-93.5%. The results show that the present imprinting method is a promising approach for preparation of selective adsorbents for sample preparation of auxin analysis in plant tissues.
20950890	Grazing is accompanied by a multitude of processes including wounding, saliva deposition, and defoliation. Previous studies have focused on the effects of the grazing or clipping intensity on plant regrowth, survival, and composition in the grassland. However, the impact of saliva deposition on plants is poorly understood. In this study, rice was used as a model plant to study the differentially expressed proteins after ovine saliva treatment. The shoots of 2-week-old seedlings were crosscut and the lower parts were daubed with ovine saliva at the cut surface. After 2, 6, 12 and 24h, proteomics analysis was performed using proteins extracted from the saliva-treated shoots. The results showed that proteins involved in multiple pathways were differentially expressed in response to ovine saliva, including catalase (CAT), peroxiredoxin (Prx), ATP synthase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO). Moreover, real-time quantitative reverse-transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) data showed that most of the genes were also regulated at the transcript level. Our results indicate the ovine saliva induces an early response in the rice seedling by stress-related pathways. This study provides information about the response of rice seedlings to ovine saliva at the protein level.
20951404	The levels of PCBs in different types of food (fish, shellfish, meat, rice, vegetables, and fruits) were analyzed to determine the dietary intake of 37 PCBs for local residents and e-waste workers (all lactating mothers) at Taizhou (China), a major electronic waste scrapping center, in particular for recycling transformers. The exposure to PCBs through dietary intake in Taizhou was estimated at 92.79 ngkg(-1)d(-1), contributed by consumption of freshwater fish (28%), rice (28%), meat (17%), shellfish (9%), vegetables (8%), egg (4%) and marine fish (2%). With regards to WHO-PCB-TEQ values, freshwater fish (40%), shellfish (24%), duck liver (18%) and rice (12%) were the main dietary sources with total daily intake (9.78 pg WHO-PCB-TEQ kg(-1)d(-1)), exceeding the FAO/WHO Tolerable Daily Intake (70 pg TEQkg(-1)body(-1)wt(-1)month(-1)).
20951807	A synthetic bovine trypsinogen (sbTrypsinogen) was synthesized on the basis of rice-optimized codon usage via an overlap PCR strategy, prior to being expressed under the control of the sucrose starvation-inducible rice α-amylase 3D (RAmy3D) promoter. Secretion of trypsin into the culture medium was achieved by using the existing signal peptide. The plant expression vector was introduced into rice calli (Oryza sativa L. cv. Dongjin), mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The integration of the sbTrypsinogen gene into the chromosome of the transgenic rice callus was verified via genomic DNA PCR amplification, and sbTrypsin expression in transgenic rice suspension cells was confirmed via Northern blot analysis. Western blot analysis detected glycosylated proteins in the culture medium, having masses from 24 to 26 kDa, following induction by sugar starvation. Proteolytic activity of the rice-derived trypsin was confirmed by gelatin zymogram, and was similar to that of the commercial bovine-produced trypsin. The yields of sbTrypsin that accumulated in the transgenic rice cell suspension medium were 15 mg/L at 5 days after sugar starvation.
20951862	The development of a reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography fluorescence method for the determination of the mycotoxins fumonisin B(1) and fumonisin B(2) by using silica-based monolithic column is described. The samples were first extracted using acetonitrile:water (50:50, v/v) and purified by using a C(18) solid phase extraction-based clean-up column. Then, pre-column derivatization for the analyte using ortho-phthaldialdehyde in the presence of 2-mercaptoethanol was carried out. The developed method involved optimization of mobile phase composition using methanol and phosphate buffer, injection volume, temperature and flow rate. The liquid chromatographic separation was performed using a reversed phase Chromolith(®) RP-18e column (100 mm × 4.6 mm) at 30 °C and eluted with a mobile phase of a mixture of methanol and phosphate buffer pH 3.35 (78:22, v/v) at a flow rate of 1.0 mL min(-1). The fumonisins separation was achieved in about 4 min, compared to approximately 20 min by using a C(18) particle-packed column. The fluorescence excitation and emission were at 335 nm and 440 nm, respectively. The limits of detections were 0.01-0.04 μg g(-1) fumonisin B(1) and fumonisin B(2), respectively. Good recoveries were found for spiked samples (0.1, 0.5, 1.5 μg g(-1) fumonisins B(1) and B(2)), ranging from 84.0 to 106.0% for fumonisin B(1) and from 81.0 to 103.0% for fumonisin B(2). Fifty-three samples were analyzed including 39 food and feeds and 14 inoculated corn and rice. Results show that 12.8% of the food and feed samples were contaminated with fumonisin B(1) (range, 0.01-0.51 μg g(-1)) and fumonisin B(2) (0.05 μg g(-1)). The total fumonisins in these samples however, do not exceed the legal limits established by the European Union of 0.8 μg g(-1). Of the 14 inoculated samples, 57.1% contained fumonisin B(1) (0.16-41.0 μg g(-1)) and fumonisin B(2) (range, 0.22-50.0 μg g(-1)). Positive confirmation of selected samples was carried out using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, using triple quadrupole analyzer and operated in the multiple reaction monitoring mode.
20952112	The experiments were done to investigate the effect of soil pH and organic matter content on EDTA-extractable heavy metal contents in soils and heavy metal concentrations in rice straw and grains. EDTA-extractable Cr contents in soils and concentrations in rice tissues were negatively correlated with soil pH, but positively correlated with organic matter content. The combination of soil pH and organic matter content would produce the more precise regression models for estimation of EDTA-Cu, Pb and Zn contents in soils, demonstrating the distinct effect of the two factors on the availability of these heavy metals in soils. Soil pH greatly affected heavy metal concentrations in rice plants. Furthermore, inclusion of other soil properties in the stepwise regression analysis improved the regression models for predicting straw Fe and grain Zn concentrations, indicating that other soil properties should be taken into consideration for precise predicting of heavy metal concentrations in rice plants.
20952187	This study focuses on kinetics of rice husk hydrolysis using sulfuric acid catalyst to produce sugars. The experiments were conducted at various catalyst concentrations. It turned out that during hydrolysis, degradation of sugars was encountered. The kinetics was expressed with both homogeneous and heterogeneous models. At catalyst concentration of higher than 0.44 N, heterogeneous model works better than homogeneous model, while at the lower, both models work well. In the heterogeneous model, it is observed that the mass transfer of sulfuric acid in the particles and the hydrolysis reaction control the rate of hydrolysis. The mass transfer can be described by Fick's law with the effective diffusivity of 1.4×10(-11) cm2/s, while the hydrolysis and sugar degradation rate constants follow Arrhenius equations. In addition, it was experimentally observed that the sugars produced can be converted to ethanol by fermentation using yeast.
20952190	The production of bioethanol by the conversion of lignocellulosic waste has attracted much interest in recent years because of its low cost and great potential availability. However, the high cost of the enzyme required for this conversion is often considered to be the major bottleneck in the commercial lignocellulosic ethanol industry. In this work, the hydrolysis of rice straw by free and entrapped lignocellulolytic enzymes (cellulase, xylanase and laccase) was carried out at pH 5.5 and 37°C. The hydrolysis of rice straw by enzymes entrapped in a membrane produced a higher monosaccharide content: 601.05 mg/g rice straw for entrapped enzymes vs. 465.46 mg/g rice straw for free enzymes. This study has shown that enzyme entrapment is an important technique for the efficient use and reuse of enzymes in industrial applications and also for the rapid separation of saccharide products from the reaction medium, thus improving the remaining enzymatic activities.
20952407	The National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences (NIAS) is implementing the NIAS Genebank Project for conservation and promotion of agrobiological genetic resources to contribute to the development and utilization of agriculture and agricultural products. The project's databases (NIASGBdb; http://www.gene.affrc.go.jp/databases_en.php) consist of a genetic resource database and a plant diseases database, linked by a web retrieval database. The genetic resources database has plant and microorganism search systems to provide information on research materials, including passport and evaluation data for genetic resources with the desired properties. To facilitate genetic diversity research, several NIAS Core Collections have been developed. The NIAS Rice (Oryza sativa) Core Collection of Japanese Landraces contains information on simple sequence repeat (SSR) polymorphisms. SSR marker information for azuki bean (Vigna angularis) and black gram (V. mungo) and DNA sequence data from some selected Japanese strains of the genus Fusarium are also available. A database of plant diseases in Japan has been developed based on the listing of common names of plant diseases compiled by the Phytopathological Society of Japan. Relevant plant and microorganism genetic resources are associated with the plant disease names by the web retrieval database and can be obtained from the NIAS Genebank for research or educational purposes.
20953156	Major classes of small RNAs include microRNAs (miRNAs) and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs). miRNAs are single-stranded RNA molecules of around 22 nucleotides in length. Most miRNAs show imperfect homology with their targets. The biogenesis mechanisms of miRNAs are different for plant and animals. Silencing of genes by miRNAs may serve as an appropriate tool to speed-up analyses of gene functions in a post-genome era. We have identified in silico a set of miRNAs that control helicase gene expression by regulating its mRNA stability and translation in rice. Our analysis revealed that several rice helicases have distinct miRNA specificities. Such analyses will be a prerequisite to refining our understanding of target selection and regulation of helicase gene expression by miRNAs in rice. Further, we discuss recent findings on miRNA gene family and its gene structure, criteria for miRNA annotation and on miRNA biogenesis that involve transcription, processing and maturation of miRNAs.
20953778	A novel sample preparation method for auxin analysis in plant samples was developed by vacuum microwave-assisted extraction (VMAE) followed by molecularly imprinted clean-up procedure. The method was based on two steps. In the first one, conventional solvent extraction was replaced by VMAE for extraction of auxins from plant tissues. This step provided efficient extraction of 3-indole acetic acid (IAA) from plant with dramatically decreased extraction time, furthermore prevented auxins from degradation by creating a reduced oxygen environment under vacuum condition. In the second step, the raw extract of VMAE was further subjected to a clean-up procedure by magnetic molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) beads. Owing to the high molecular recognition ability of the magnetic MIP beads for IAA and 3-indole-butyric acid (IBA), the two target auxins in plants can be selectively enriched and the interfering substance can be eliminated by dealing with a magnetic separation procedure. Both the VMAE and the molecularly imprinted clean-up conditions were investigated. The proposed sample preparation method was coupled with high-performance liquid chromatogram and fluorescence detection for determination of IAA and IBA in peas and rice. The detection limits obtained for IAA and IBA were 0.47 and 1.6 ng/mL and the relative standard deviation were 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively. The IAA contents in pea seeds, pea embryo, pea roots and rice seeds were determined. The recoveries were ranged from 70.0% to 85.6%. The proposed method was also applied to investigate the developmental profiles of IAA concentration in pea seeds and rice seeds during seed germination.
20954285	To determine the glycemic index (GI), glycemic load (GL) and insulinemic index (II) of five starchy foods that are commonly used in Chinese diets. Ten healthy subjects aged between 20-30 years were recruited. Each subject was asked to consume 50 g of available carbohydrate portions of test foods and reference food. Finger capillary blood samples were collected at the start of eating and 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 min after consumption. The GI and II of foods were calculated from the ratio of incremental area under the glucose/insulin response curves of test and reference foods. The GL for each test food was determined from its GI value and carbohydrate content. The results showed that brown rice elicited the highest postprandial glucose and insulin responses, followed by taro, adlay, yam and mung bean noodles, which produced the lowest. Among the five starchy foods, brown rice evoked the highest GI and GL at 82 ± 0.2 and 18 ± 0.2, followed by taro (69 ± 0.4, 12 ± 0.2), adlay (55 ± 0.4, 10 ± 0.2), yam (52 ± 0.3, 9 ± 0.0) and mung bean noodles (28 ± 0.5, 7 ± 0.2), respectively. The II values of the test foods corresponded with GI values. Similarly, brown rice gave the highest II at 81 ± 0.1, followed by taro (73 ± 0.3), adlay (67 ± 0.3), yam (64 ± 0.5) and mung bean noodles (38 ± 0.3). All five starchy foods had lower GI, GL and II than reference bread (P < 0.05). The GI, GL and II values of starchy foods provide important information for the public to manage their diet and could be useful for the prevention of lifestyle-related diseases such as diabetes mellitus.
20954713	Molinate is a thiocarbamate herbicide used as a pre-emergent in rice patty fields. It has two predominant sulfoxidation metabolites, molinate sulfoxide and molinate sulfone. Previous work demonstrated an in vivo decrease in liver aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity in rats treated with molinate and motor function deficits in dogs dosed chronically with this compound. ALDH is an enzyme important in the catabolism of many neurotransmitters, such as dopamine. Inhibition of this enzyme may lead to the accumulation of endogenous neurotoxic metabolites such as 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde, a dopamine metabolite, which may account for the observed neurotoxicity. In this study, the relative reactivity of molinate and both of its sulfoxidation metabolites toward ALDH was investigated, as well as the mechanism of inhibition. The ALDH activity was monitored in two different model systems, human recombinant ALDH (hALDH2) and mouse striatal synaptosomes. Molinate sulfone was found to be the most potent ALDH inhibitor, as compared to molinate and molinate sulfoxide. The reactivity of these three compounds was also assessed, using N-acetyl Cys, model peptides, and hALDH2. It was determined that molinate sulfone is capable of covalently modifying Cys residues, including catalytic Cys302 of ALDH, accounting for the observed enzyme inhibition.
20955180	Approximately 20,000 of the rice-FOX Arabidopsis transgenic lines, which overexpress 13,000 rice full-length cDNAs at random in Arabidopsis, were screened for bacterial disease resistance by dip inoculation with Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 (Pst DC3000). The identities of the overexpressed genes were determined in 72 lines that showed consistent resistance after three independent screens. Pst DC3000 resistance was verified for 19 genes by characterizing other independent Arabidopsis lines for the same genes in the original rice-FOX hunting population or obtained by reintroducing the genes into ecotype Columbia by floral dip transformation. Thirteen lines of these 72 selections were also resistant to the fungal pathogen Colletotrichum higginsianum. Eight genes that conferred resistance to Pst DC3000 in Arabidopsis have been introduced into rice for overexpression, and transformants were evaluated for resistance to the rice bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. One of the transgenic rice lines was highly resistant to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Interestingly, this line also showed remarkably high resistance to Magnaporthe grisea, the fungal pathogen causing rice blast, which is the most devastating rice disease in many countries. The causal rice gene, encoding a putative receptor-like cytoplasmic kinase, was therefore designated as BROAD-SPECTRUM RESISTANCE 1. Our results demonstrate the utility of the rice-FOX Arabidopsis lines as a tool for the identification of genes involved in plant defence and suggest the presence of a defence mechanism common between monocots and dicots.
20955181	The cell wall plays important roles in plant architecture and morphogenesis. The cellulose synthase-like super-families were reported to contain glycosyltransferases motif and are required for the biosynthesis of cell wall polysaccharides. Here, we describe a curled leaf and dwarf mutant, cd1, in rice, which exhibits multiple phenotypic traits such as the reduction of plant height and leaf width, curled leaf morphology and a decrease in the number of grains and in the panicle length. Map-based cloning indicates that a member of the cellulose synthase-like D (CSLD) group is a candidate for OsCD1. RNAi transgenic plants with the candidate CSLD gene display a similar phenotype to the cd1 mutant, suggesting that OsCD1 is a member of the CSLD sub-family. Furthermore, sequence analysis indicates that OsCD1 contains the common D,D,D,QXXRW motif, which is a feature of the cellulose synthase-like super-family. Analysis of OsCD1 promoter with GUS fusion expression shows that OsCD1 exhibits higher expression in young meristem tissues such as fresh roots, young panicle and stem apical meristem. Cell wall composition analysis reveals that cellulose content and the level of xylose are significantly reduced in mature culm owing to loss of OsCD1 function. Take together, the work presented here is useful for expanding the understanding of cell wall biosynthesis.
20955618	Maize (Zea mays ssp. mays L.) is an important model for plant basic and applied research. In 2009, the B73 maize genome sequencing made a great step forward, using clone by clone strategy; however, functional annotation and gene classification of the maize genome are still limited. Thus, a well-annotated datasets and informative database will be important for further research discoveries. Signal transduction is a fundamental biological process in living cells, and many protein families participate in this process in sensing, amplifying and responding to various extracellular or internal stimuli. Therefore, it is a good starting point to integrate information on the maize functional genes involved in signal transduction. Here we introduce a comprehensive database 'ProFITS' (Protein Families Involved in the Transduction of Signalling), which endeavours to identify and classify protein kinases/phosphatases, transcription factors and ubiquitin-proteasome-system related genes in the B73 maize genome. Users can explore gene models, corresponding transcripts and FLcDNAs using the three abovementioned protein hierarchical categories, and visualize them using an AJAX-based genome browser (JBrowse) or Generic Genome Browser (GBrowse). Functional annotations such as GO annotation, protein signatures, protein best-hits in the Arabidopsis and rice genome are provided. In addition, pre-calculated transcription factor binding sites of each gene are generated and mutant information is incorporated into ProFITS. In short, ProFITS provides a user-friendly web interface for studies in signal transduction process in maize. ProFITS, which utilizes both the B73 maize genome and full length cDNA (FLcDNA) datasets, provides users a comprehensive platform of maize annotation with specific focus on the categorization of families involved in the signal transduction process. ProFITS is designed as a user-friendly web interface and it is valuable for experimental researchers. It is freely available now to all users at http://bioinfo.cau.edu.cn/ProFITS.
20957829	This paper aims to show the links between rice genetics and the corporatist political economy of early Francoism. After investigating the transition from prewar rice producers' associations to a new federation embedded in a vertical union, I identify three main novelties of the new organization: its national scope, its need to address lack of supply rather than overproduction, and its hierarchical functioning. I then focus on the one state-owned agricultural station devoted to rice research, showing how its agricultural scientists shaped, and relied on, the state-controlled unions, both for producing and distributing new varieties of rice and for controlling the seeds farmers used. Finally, I explore how this relationship made it possible for the scientists to test, multiply, and distribute throughout the Spanish landscape the seeds they produced at the laboratory, thus putting hierarchical unity and autarky to work and demonstrating the role of scientists as active agents of state formation and landscape transformation within a corporatist political economy.
20958091	The cell wall is a critical extracellular structure that provides protection and structural support in plant cells. To study the biological function of the cell wall and the regulation of cell wall resynthesis, we examined cellular responses to enzymatic removal of the cell wall in rice (Oryza sativa) suspension cells using proteomic approaches. We find that removal of cell wall stimulates cell wall synthesis from multiple sites in protoplasts instead of from a single site as in cytokinesis. Nucleus DAPI stain and MNase digestion further show that removal of the cell wall is concomitant with substantial chromatin reorganization. Histone post-translational modification studies using both Western blots and isotope labeling assisted quantitative mass spectrometry analyses reveal that substantial histone modification changes, particularly H3K18(AC) and H3K23(AC), are associated with the removal and regeneration of the cell wall. Label-free quantitative proteome analyses further reveal that chromatin associated proteins undergo dramatic changes upon removal of the cell wall, along with cytoskeleton, cell wall metabolism, and stress-response proteins. This study demonstrates that cell wall removal is associated with substantial chromatin change and may lead to stimulation of cell wall synthesis using a novel mechanism.
20959420	Pollen mother cells (PMCs) represent a critical early stage in plant sexual reproduction in which the stage is set for male gamete formation. Understanding the global molecular genetics of this early meiotic stage has so far been limited to whole stamen or floret transcriptome studies, but since PMCs are a discrete population of cells in developmental synchrony, they provide the potential for precise transcriptome analysis and for enhancing our understanding of the transition to meiosis. As a step toward identifying the premeiotic transcriptome, we performed microarray analysis on a homogenous population of rice (Oryza sativa) PMCs isolated by laser microdissection and compared them with those of tricellular pollen and seedling. Known meiotic genes, including OsSPO11-1, PAIR1, PAIR2, PAIR3, OsDMC1, OsMEL1, OsRAD21-4, OsSDS, and ZEP1, all showed preferential expression in PMCs. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways significantly enriched in PMC-preferential genes are DNA replication and repair pathways. Our genome-wide survey showed that, in the buildup to meiosis, PMCs accumulate the molecular machinery for meiosis at the mRNA level. We identified 1,158 PMC-preferential genes and suggested candidate genes and pathways involved in meiotic recombination and meiotic cell cycle control. Regarding the developmental context for meiosis, the DEF-like, AGL2-like, and AGL6-like subclades of MADS box transcription factors are PMC-preferentially expressed, the trans-zeatin type of cytokinin might be preferentially synthesized, and the gibberellin signaling pathway is likely active in PMCs. The ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis pathway is enriched in the 127 genes that are expressed in PMCs but not in tricellular pollen or seedling.
20959423
20960020	As the amino acid storing organelle, the protein bodies provide nutrients for embryo development, seed germination and early seedling growth through storage proteolysis in cereal plants, such as wheat and rice. In protein bodies, the monomeric and polymeric prolamins, i.e. gliadins and glutenins, form gluten and play a key role in determining dough functionality and end-product quality of wheat. The formation of intra- and intermolecular bonds, including disulphide and tyrosine bonds, in and between prolamins confers cohesivity, viscosity, elasticity and extensibility to wheat dough during mixing and processing. In this review, we summarize recent progress in wheat gluten research with a focus on the fundamental molecular biological aspects, including transcriptional regulation on genes coding for prolamin components, biosynthesis, deposition and secretion of protein polymers, formation of protein bodies, genetic control of seed storage proteins, the transportation of the protein bodies and key enzymes for determining the formation of disulphide bonds of prolamin polymers.
20960202	A protocol was developed for preservation of calli of Oryza rufipogon Griff. in liquid nitrogen (-196°C). Optimal conditions for cryoprotection, pre-freezing and post-thaw recovery of calli were identified. Cryoprotectant treatment at low temperature, pre-freezing in isopropanol bath for 1 h at -70°C, rapid thawing and proper removal of cryoprotectant were critical for post-thaw survival. Genetic fidelity of the R1 plants obtained from cryopreserved, cryoprotectant-treated and untreated calli was assessed by phenotypic and molecular characterization. Comparison of phenotypic characters with seed-derived control plants showed no significant variation in the agronomic characters, but seed physical characters showed significant reduction in all the in vitro generated plants. Molecular data generated using 26 rice simple sequence repeat markers showed 4.78-7.25% change from control. Results suggested that both callus induction and cryopreservation induced heritable variations in O. rufipogon. In addition, a combination of phenotypic and molecular characterization using an appropriate marker provided better insight into genetic fidelity of recovered plants.
20960223	qLTG3-1 is a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) controlling tolerance to low-temperature at the seed germination stage (termed low-temperature germinability) in rice using a population derived from the cross between Italica Livorno from Italy and Hayamasari from Japan. Map-based cloning identified that qLTG3-1 encodes a protein of unknown function. The molecular identification of this major QTL could make it possible to identify allelic variation and favorable alleles for rice breeding programs. The present study examined the identification of qLTG3-1 alleles and their distribution among 62 landraces of Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) collected from 19 different countries, termed the rice core collection. In the coding region, a single non-synonymous substitution and 3 in-frame insertion/deletion polymorphisms (indels) were detected. The almost completely conserved protein alignment of qLTG3-1 was also identified among 5 Oryza species, suggesting that the function of qLTG3-1 is critical for seed germination or for rice growth by pleiotropic effects of the gene. The functional nucleotide polymorphisms (FNPs), a 71-bp deletion found in Hayamasari and an amino acid substitution found in Nipponbare, was identified in varieties from Japan. These alleles with FNPs might be adapted to rice cultivation in specific local conditions. The present results may contribute to the utilization of favorable alleles of qLTG3-1 for the improvement of low-temperature germinability in rice breeding programs.
20960359	Method validation for quantitative analysis of aflatoxins (AFs), ochratoxin A (OTA) and zearalenone (ZEA) in cereals using HPLC with fluorescence detector (FLD) is described. Mycotoxins were extracted with methanol : water (80 : 20) and purified with a multifunctional AOZ immunoaffinity column before HPLC analysis. The validation of the analytical method was performed to establish the following parameters: specificity, selectivity, linearity, limits of detection (LOD) and quantification (LOQ), accuracy, precision (within- and between-day variability), stability, robustness, measurement of performance, and measurement of uncertainty. Calibration curves were linear (r > 0.999) over the concentration range, from the LOQ to 26, 40 and 400 ng/g for AFs, OTA and ZEA, respectively. LOD and LOQ were 0.0125 and 0.05 ng/g for aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) and G1 (AFG1), 0.0037 and 0.015 ng/g for aflatoxin B2 (AFB2) and G2 (AFG2), as well as 0.05 and 0.2 ng/g for OTA and 0.5 and 2 ng/g for ZEA, respectively. The mean recovery values were 77-104% for different concentrations of AFs, OTA and ZEA in spiked cereal samples. Both intra- and inter-day accuracy and precision were within acceptable limits. This method was successfully applied for the simultaneous determination of mycotoxins for 60 cereal samples collected from Malaysian markets. Fifty per cent of the cereal samples were contaminated with at least one of these mycotoxins, at a level greater than the LOD. Only one wheat sample and two rice samples were contaminated with levels greater than the European Union regulatory limits for AFs and OTA (4 and 5 ng/g). The means and ranges of mycotoxins obtained for the cereal samples were 0.4 ng/g and 0.01-5.9 ng/g for total AFs; 0.18 ng/g and 0.03-5.3 ng/g for OTA; and 2.8 ng/g and 2.4-73.1 ng/g for ZEA, respectively. The results indicate that the method is suitable for the simultaneous determination of AFs, OTA and ZEA in cereals and is suitable for routine analysis.
20961039	The genetically modified (GM) food/feed quantification depends on the reliable detection systems of endogenous reference genes. Currently, four endogenous reference genes including sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS), GOS9, phospholipase D (PLD), and ppi phosphofructokinase (ppi-PPF) of rice have been used in GM rice detection. To compare the applicability of these four rice reference genes in quantitative PCR systems, we analyzed the target nucleotide sequence variation in 58 conventional rice varieties from various geographic and phylogenic origins, also their quantification performances were evaluated using quantitative real-time PCR and GeNorm analysis via a series of statistical calculation to get a "M value" which is negative correlation with the stability of genes. The sequencing analysis results showed that the reported GOS9 and PLD taqman probe regions had detectable single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) among the tested rice cultivars, while no SNPs were observed for SPS and ppi-PPF amplicons. Also, poor quantitative performance was detectable in these cultivars with SNPs using GOS9 and PLD quantitative PCR systems. Even though the PCR efficiency of ppi-PPF system was slightly lower, the SPS and ppi-PPF quantitative PCR systems were shown to be applicable for rice endogenous reference assay with less variation among the C(t) values, good reproducibility in quantitative assays, and the low M values by the comprehensive quantitative PCR comparison and GeNorm analysis.
20961066	Rice (Oryza sativa cv Taipei 309) suspension culture cells (SCCs) were used as a simple, single cell model system to gain insights into the complex abscisic acid (ABA) signaling response pathways in plants. Following system establishment involving morphological observations and transcript profiling of genes known to be ABA responsive in planta, a comprehensive proteomic and metabolomic study was performed. A total of 759 buffer-soluble proteins that included 3284 peptides categorized into 656 protein families are reported. Using iTRAQ, only 36 of these proteins showed statistically significant changes in abundance in response to ABA. In addition, a GC-MS based metabolite profiling study allowed the identification of 148 metabolites that included 25 amino acids (AAs), 45 organic acids (OAs), 35 sugars, 19 fatty acids, 2 polyamines, 4 sterols, 5 sugar acids, 4 sugar alcohols, and 9 miscellaneous compounds. Of these, only 11 (8.8%) changed in a statistically significant manner in response to ABA treatment. These studies provide important insights into plant responses to ABA at the protein and metabolite level.
20961467	Brown Planthopper (BPH, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål)) is one of the most serious pests of rice in both temperate and tropical regions of East and South Asia and has become especially problematic over the past few years. In order to analyze the effect of the change of rice cropping system on the population dynamics of BPH, field surveys of the occurrence and distribution of BPH were performed and other relevant data, including light trap data and ovary dissection data were collected in nearly 40 Chinese counties encompassing six provinces (or municipalities), including Hainan, Guangxi, Anhui, Shanghai, Fujian and Guangdong from April to October in 2007.The mixed planting areas of single- and double-cropping rice in China include Hubei, South and Central Anhui, North Hunan, and North Jiangxi. In these areas, double-cropping rice has now been greatly reduced and single-cropping rice has been rapidly increasing since 1997. The surveys revealed that when the immigration peak of BPH occurred in June and July, the single-cropping rice was at the tillering to booting stage and fit for BPH, but early rice had already matured and most of late rice had not yet been transplanted. BPH immigrants from southern rice areas prefer to inhabit and breed in single-cropping rice paddies. Moreover, farming activities between early rice and late rice interrupted the continuous growth of BPH populations in double-cropping rice paddies. As a result, in comparison with data collected 30 years ago, the spatiotemporal dynamics and migration patterns of BPH have dramatically changed in the lower-middle reaches of the Yangtze River. In the mixed planting areas, due to their high suitability, the BPH population in single-cropping rice grew so quickly that it caused serious local damage and there was mass emigration of macropterous progeny to the Yangtze River Delta in late August and early September.Global warming may also affect BPH populations, where results suggest steadily warmer autumns have occurred from the 1990s on, with such conditions gradually the norm. The combination of 'cooler summer' and 'warmer autumn' are conditions known to promote outbreaks of BPH in the lower-middle reaches of the Yangtze River. Immigrant BPH arrivals in late August and September now cause serious damage to late-maturing mid-season rice and late rice in the lower-middle reaches of the Yangtze River.
2096229	Prospective epidemiological studies of blood pressure in a high-salt population in northeastern Japan were investigated along with dietary habits such as miso soup, rice, apple, fish, milk and sake consumption as well as smoking habits. Blood pressures of the populations in 3 villages were determined once or twice a year by mass surveys from 1954, 1957 or 1958 through 1975. The means and transitions of the personal blood pressure were calculated by regression analysis of the data obtained during each entire period. The number of persons was 1127 males and 1369 females and the response rate was 98.7 percent. The average number of times of determination of blood pressure for a person was 12.9. Stepwise multiple regression analyses were run with the means and transitions of systolic and diastolic blood pressure as the dependent variables and the life styles of the population in 1958 as an independent variable based on data of persons whose blood pressures were determined 5 or more times during the entire period. According to the backward stepwise method this study confirmed the positive relationship of age and sake drinking and the negative relationship of apple eating habits to blood pressure.
20962882	The effects of QTLs are demonstrated basically within the population used in the original QTL analysis as the difference between the alleles of the parental varieties. For the efficient use of QTLs in breeding programs, it is necessary to assess whether the QTL exhibits its genetic effect when it is introgressed into different genetic backgrounds. Extensive studies of tolerance to low temperature at the seed germination stage (called low-temperature germinability) in rice revealed that 2 major QTLs on chromosomes 3 and 11, qLTG3-1 and qLTG11, have large effects. This study assessed the effects of these 2 QTLs from an aus variety, Kasalath, in different genetic backgrounds of 3 japonica varieties, Hoshinoyume, Hayamasari, and Koshihikari. Backcrossed progenies and chromosome segment substitution lines showed that both qLTG3-1 and qLTG11 were effective in the Hoshinoyume and Koshihikari backgrounds, while only qLTG3-1 was effective in the Hayamasari background. The results in this study demonstrated that these 2 QTLs are useful for the improvement of low-temperature germinability in rice breeding programs. The results also indicated that low-temperature germinability in rice is governed by an epistatic interaction of qLTG11.
20963471	Agricultural waste products are potential resources for the production of a number of industrial compounds, including biofuels. Basidiomycete fungi display a battery of hydrolytic enzymes with prospective use in lignocellulosic biomass transformation, however little work has been done regarding the characterization of such activities. Growth in several lignocellulosic substrates (oak and cedar sawdust, rice husk, corn stubble, wheat straw and Jatropha seed husk) and the production of cellulases and xylanases by two basidiomycete fungi: Bjerkandera adusta and Pycnoporus sanguineus were analyzed. Growth for P. sanguineus was best in rice husk while corn stubble supported the highest growth rate for B. adusta. Among the substrates tested, cedar sawdust produced the highest cellulolytic activities in both fungal species, followed by oak sawdust and wheat straw. Xylanolytic activity was best in oak and cedar sawdust for both species. We found no correlation between growth and enzyme production. Zymogram analysis of xylanases and cellulases showed that growth in different substrates produced particular combinations of protein bands with hydrolytic activity.
20963607	We previously cloned a vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter gene (OsNHX1) from rice (Oryza sativa). Here we identified four additional NHX-type antiporter genes in rice (OsNHX2 through OsNHX5) and performed molecular and functional analyses of those genes. The exon-intron structure of the OsNHX genes and the phylogenetic tree of the OsNHX proteins suggest that the OsNHX proteins are categorized into two subgroups (OsNHX1 through OsNHX4 and OsNHX5). OsNHX1, OsNHX2, OsNHX3, and OsNHX5 can suppress the Na+, Li+, and hygromycin sensitivity of yeast nhx1 mutants and their sensitivity to a high K+ concentration. The expression of OsNHX1, OsNHX2, OsNHX3, and OsNHX5 is regulated differently in rice tissues and is increased by salt stress, hyperosmotic stress, and ABA. When we studied the expression of β-glucuronidase (GUS) driven by either the OsNHX1 or the OsNHX5 promoter, we observed activity in the stele, the emerging part of lateral roots, the vascular bundle, the water pore, and the basal part of seedling shoots with both promoters. In addition, each promoter had a unique expression pattern. OsNHX1 promoter-GUS activity only was localized to the guard cells and trichome, whereas OsNHX5 promoter-GUS activity only was localized to the root tip and pollen grains. Our results suggest that the members of this gene family play important roles in the compartmentalization into vacuoles of the Na+ and K+ that accumulate in the cytoplasm and that the differential regulation of antiporter gene expression in different rice tissues may be an important factor determining salt tolerance in rice.
20964343	Rice (Oryza sativa) is the staple food for half of the world's population, but the selenium (Se) concentrations in rice grain are low in many rice-growing regions. This study investigated the effects of water management on the Se speciation dynamics in the soil solution and Se uptake and speciation in rice in a pot experiment. A control containing no Se or 0.5 mg kg(-1) of soil of selenite or selenate was added to the soil, and plants were grown under aerobic or flooded conditions. Flooding soil increased soluble Se concentration when no Se or selenite was added to the soil, but decreased it markedly when selenate was added. Selenate was the main species in the +selenate treatment, whereas selenite and selenomethionine selenium oxide were detected in the flooded soil solutions of the control and +selenite treatments. Grain Se concentration was 49% higher in the flooded than in the aerobic treatments without Se addition. In contrast, when selenate or selenite was added, the aerobically grown rice contained 25- and 2-fold, respectively, more Se in grain than the anaerobically grown rice. Analysis of Se in rice grain using enzymatic hydrolysis followed by HPLC-ICP-MS and in situ X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) showed selenomethionine to be the predominant Se species. The study showed that selenate addition to aerobic soil was the most effective way to increase Se concentration in rice grain.
20964442	Free standing and vertically aligned silicon rice-straw- like array emitters were fabricated by modified electroless metal deposition (EMD), using HF-H(2)O(2) as an etching solution to reduce the emitter density and to make the emitter end of the formed silicon rice-straw arrays shaper than those formed by conventional EMD. These silicon rice-straw array emitters can be turned on at E(0) = 4.7 V/μm, yielding an EFE (electron field emission) current density of J(e) = 139 μA/cm(2) in an applied field of 12.8 V/μm. According to a simple simulation, the excellent EFE performance of the silicon rice-straw array emitters originates in not only the favorable distribution of emitter arrays, but also the shape of the emitter apexes. The modified-EMD method is easily scaled up without expensive equipment, so silicon rice-straw array emitters are a promising alternative to silicon-based field emitters.
20964753	Understanding how crop species spread and are introduced to new areas provides insights into the nature of species range expansions. The domesticated species Oryza sativa or Asian rice is one of the key domesticated crop species in the world. The island of Madagascar off the coast of East Africa was one of the last major Old World areas of introduction of rice after the domestication of this crop species and before extensive historical global trade in this crop. Asian rice was introduced in Madagascar from India, the Malay Peninsula and Indonesia approximately 800-1400 years ago. Studies of domestication traits characteristic of the two independently domesticated Asian rice subspecies, indica and tropical japonica, suggest two major waves of migrations into Madagascar. A population genetic analysis of rice in Madagascar using sequence data from 53 gene fragments provided insights into the dynamics of island founder events during the expansion of a crop species' geographic range and introduction to novel agro-ecological environments. We observed a significant decrease in genetic diversity in rice from Madagascar when compared to those in Asia, likely the result of a bottleneck on the island. We also found a high frequency of a unique indica type in Madagascar that shows clear population differentiation from most of the sampled Asian landraces, as well as differential exchange of alleles between Asia and Madagascar populations of the tropical japonica subspecies. Finally, despite partial reproductive isolation between japonica and indica, there was evidence of indica/japonica recombination resulting from their hybridization on the island.
20967698	Anthocyanins, which are found in some food, including Thai black sticky rice, are reported to have health-promoting properties. Oxidative stress plays a major role in the pathogenesis of many degenerative diseases induced by free radicals, such as cardiovascular disease, stroke and cancer. We evaluated the anthocyanin-rich extract (ARE) from Thai black sticky rice for antioxidative and antihyperlipidemic effects on HepG2 cells. Cell viability was investigated with the neutral red assay and the MTT assay, and oxidative stress was determined by the DCFH-DA assay. RT-PCR was used to evaluate the effect of ARE on LDLR, HMG-CoAR, PPAR (α1,γ) and LXRa gene expression. We found that ARE at high doses (≥ 800 mg/L) induces cytotoxicity. However, at 600-1000 mg/L it reduced intracellular oxidative stress (P < 0.05) in a dose-dependent manner, and at 200 mg/L it significantly enhanced the expression of the LDLR gene in HepG2 cells. We concluded that ARE can be beneficial for health promotion by reducing oxidative stress and enhancing LDL clearance, regulating LDLR production on the cell surface membrane, thereby maintaining lipid homeostasis.
20968245	This paper presents a summary of Pohnpei, Federated States Micronesia's involvement in a global health study focused on documenting traditional food systems in different parts of the world and providing evidence that local resources are critical for food security, nutrition and health. The Pohnpei study was based in Mand Community, Madolenihmw. The study found that there was a great diversity of foods locally available (381 food items documented), but these were underused. Overweight, obesity, diabetes, and vitamin A deficiency were identified as serious problems. Interventions included community meetings, school activities, and agriculture workshops, cooking classes, charcoal oven development, weight loss and planting competitions, poster campaigns and other relevant mass media. Significant dietary improvements were achieved following the intervention efforts, as well as positive changes in attitude towards local food including: decrease in average daily rice consumption from 846 g/person in 2005 to 544 g/person in 2007 (p = 0.0002); increase in provitamin A carotenoid intake from 227 microg/person in 2005 to 475 microg/person in 2007 (p = 0.02); increased frequency of consumption of local banana (53%), giant swamp taro (476%), local vegetables (130%); and increased dietary diversity (4.8 local food groups consumed in 2005 to 5.5 in 2007). Another positive outcome in Pohnpei was the popularization of the slogan "Let's Go Local."
2097035	1. To assess their possible anti-nutritive activity wheat pentosans were isolated from a milling by-product and added at graded levels to a sorghum-based broiler chicken diet. 2. A water-insoluble pentosan preparation (WIP, 720 g arabinoxylan/kg) caused a depression of apparent metabolisable energy (AME) of 1.63 MJ/kg DM at the highest level of inclusion (41.9 g/kg). Broilers maintained on this diet showed significant growth depression and a decrease in feed conversion efficiency. 3. A water-soluble pentosan preparation (WSP, 520 g arabinoxylan/kg) showed less anti-nutritive activity. 4. In a second experiment the AME of rice (pearled), maize, sorghum, wheat, triticale, barley and rye was determined. The AME values obtained were highly correlated (r = -0.98, P less than 0.001) with the summed levels of pentosans and beta-glucans found in the cereals. 5. It was concluded that the pentosans of wheat possess anti-nutritive activity when present in broiler diets and that similar polysaccharides may influence the nutritive value of other cereals.
20971065	Our recent report documented that the rice germin-like protein1 (OsGLP1), being a cell wall-associated protein involves in disease resistance in rice and possesses superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity as recognized by heterologous expression in tobacco. In the present study, the transgenic tobacco plants were analyzed further to decipher the detailed physiological and biochemical functions of the OsGLP1 and its associated SOD activity. The transgenic tobacco lines expressing SOD-active OsGLP1 showed tolerance against biotic and abiotic stresses mitigated by hyper-accumulating H(2)O(2) upon infection by fungal pathogen (Fusarium solani) and treatment to chemical oxidizing agent (ammonium persulfate), respectively. Histological staining revealed enhanced cross-linking of the cell wall components in the stem tissues of the transgenic plants. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) analysis of the biopolymer from the stem tissues of the transgenic and untransformed plants revealed differential banding pattern of the spectra corresponding to various functional groups. Our findings demonstrate that the OsGLP1 with its inherent SOD activity is responsible for hyper-accumulation of H(2)O(2) and reinforcement of the cell wall components.
20971549	In the context of the ongoing climate change discussions the importance of peatlands as carbon stores is increasingly recognised in the public. Drainage, deforestation and peat fires are the main reasons for the release of huge amounts of carbon from peatlands. Successful restoration of degraded tropical peatlands is of high interest due to their huge carbon store and sequestration potential. The blocking of drainage canals by dam building has become one of the most important measures to restore the hydrology and the ecological function of the peat domes. This study investigates the capability of using multitemporal radar remote sensing imagery for monitoring the hydrological effects of these measures. The study area is the former Mega Rice Project area in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia, where peat drainage and forest degradation is especially intense. Restoration measures started in July 2004 by building 30 large dams until June 2008. We applied change detection analysis with more than 80 ENVISAT ASAR and ALOS PALSAR images, acquired between 2004 and 2009. Radar signal increases of up to 1.36 dB show that high frequency multitemporal radar satellite imagery can be used to detect an increase in peat soil moisture after dam construction, especially in deforested areas with a high density of dams. Furthermore, a strong correlation between cross-polarised radar backscatter coefficients and groundwater levels above -50 cm was found. Monitoring peatland rewetting and quantifying groundwater level variations is important information for vegetation re-establishment, fire hazard warning and making carbon emission mitigation tradable under the voluntary carbon market or REDD (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation) mechanism.
20971557	Rice straw charcoal, soot and fly ash (collectively termed "black carbon" or BC), which were found to widely exist in the environment and exhibit strong sorption of many organic compounds, were prepared for this study, and recorded as RC, SC, and FC, respectively. The characterization, sorption isotherm, and the effect of pH (from 3.0 to 9.0) on sorption capacity of each BC were investigated. It is demonstrated that RC possessed the largest surface area (234.9 m(2)/g), the highest porosity (0.4392 mL/g), and the largest amount of functional groups (2.995 mmol/g) of all. All the Freundlich, Langmuir and Dual-mode model can fit the sorption data of each BC well. The pH value could apparently affect the sorption capacity of pentachlorophenol (PCP) to BCs, which reached maximum value at pH 4.0. Furthermore, in order to validate the effect of pH on desorption capacity, we designed sorption-desorption cycle experiments at pH 9.0 and then pH 7.0, and found that the effect of pH on irreversible sorption and hysteresis effects were significant. As pH value decreasing from 9.0 to 7.0, the irreversible sorption capacities for RC, FC, and SC increased, and the desorption hysteresis index (H) values of PCP increased approximately 3 times for each BC.
20971831	Two facultatively anaerobic bacterial strains, designated WR061(T) and WR054, were isolated from rice-straw residue in a methanogenic reactor treating waste from cattle farms in Japan. The two strains were phylogenetically positioned close to one another and had almost the same phenotypic properties. Cells were Gram-reaction-positive, non-motile, non-spore-forming, irregular rods. Cobalamin (vitamin B₁₂) was required for growth. The strains utilized various carbohydrates, including hexoses and disaccharides, and produced acetate and propionate from these carbohydrates. Pentoses and polysaccharides were not utilized. They grew at 20-37 °C (optimum 35 °C) and pH 5.3-8.0 (optimum pH 6.8-7.5). Catalase and nitrate-reducing activities were detected. Aesculin was hydrolysed. The major cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C₁₅:₀ and C₁₅:₀ DMA, the major respiratory quinone was menaquinone MK-9(H₄) and the genomic DNA G+C content was 69.3-69.5 mol%. The diagnostic diamino acid in the peptidoglycan was meso-diaminopimelic acid. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences placed the strains in the phylum Actinobacteria. Both strains were remotely related to the species in the family Propionibacteriaceae and Propionibacterium propionicum JCM 5830(T) was the most closely related type strain with a sequence similarity of 91.6 %. Based on phylogenetic, physiological and chemotaxonomic analyses, the two novel strains together represent a novel species of a new genus, for which the name Propioniciclava tarda gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is WR061(T) (= JCM 15804(T) = DSM 22130(T)).
20972439	Uncovering the genetic basis of agronomic traits in crop landraces that have adapted to various agro-climatic conditions is important to world food security. Here we have identified ∼ 3.6 million SNPs by sequencing 517 rice landraces and constructed a high-density haplotype map of the rice genome using a novel data-imputation method. We performed genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for 14 agronomic traits in the population of Oryza sativa indica subspecies. The loci identified through GWAS explained ∼ 36% of the phenotypic variance, on average. The peak signals at six loci were tied closely to previously identified genes. This study provides a fundamental resource for rice genetics research and breeding, and demonstrates that an approach integrating second-generation genome sequencing and GWAS can be used as a powerful complementary strategy to classical biparental cross-mapping for dissecting complex traits in rice.
20973327	To determine changes in cadmium exposure among persons aged 15 years and older who lived in the 12 cadmium-contaminated villages in northwestern Thailand. Urinary cadmium was measured among villagers in 2004. An exposure reduction campaign was conducted soon afterwards, and in 2009, urinary cadmium was measured among people living in the same villages. The survey participants were asked about their smoking status and consumption of rice grown locally in cadmium-contaminated areas. Both were the two main routes of cadmium exposure in these villages. Seven thousand six hundred ninety seven and 6748 persons participated in the first and second surveys, respectively. The proportion of current smokers was higher in the first survey (34.9%) than the second survey (31.5%). The proportion of persons who consumed rice grown locally decreased from 88.0% in the first survey to 50.5% in the second survey. Of persons who consumed rice grown locally, the proportion of those with urinary cadmium > or =2 microg/g creatinine increased from 55.5% in the first survey to 61.3% in the second survey. Of persons consuming rice purchased from other areas, the proportion of those with urinary cadmium > or =2 microg/g creatinine decreased from 46.7% in the first survey to 35.6% in the second survey. In both surveys, the adjusted odds ratio for increasing prevalence of high urinary cadmium associated with consumption of locally grown rice was greater than that for tobacco smoking. Urinary excretion of cadmium significantly decreased after environmental cadmium exposure was reduced.
20973536	Heterosis describes the superior performance of heterozygous F(1)-hybrid plants compared to their homozygous parental inbred lines. In the present study, heterosis was detected for length, weight, and the time point of seminal root primordia initiation in maize (Zea mays L.) embryos of the reciprocal F(1)-hybrids UH005xUH250 and UH250xUH005. A two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) proteome survey of the most abundant proteins of the reciprocal hybrids and their parental inbred lines 25 and 35 days after pollination revealed that 141 of 597 detected proteins (24%) exhibited nonadditive accumulation in at least one hybrid. Approximately 44% of all nonadditively accumulated proteins displayed an expression pattern that was not distinguishable from the low parent value. Electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (ESI-MS/MS) analyses and subsequent functional classification of the 141 proteins revealed that development, protein metabolism, redox-regulation, glycolysis, and amino acid metabolism were the most prominent functional classes among nonadditively accumulated proteins. In 35-day-old embryos of the hybrid UH250xUH005, a significant up-regulation of enzymes related to glucose metabolism which often exceeded the best parent values was observed. A comparison of nonadditive protein accumulation between rice and maize embryo data sets revealed a significant overlap of nonadditively accumulated proteins suggesting conserved organ- or tissue-specific regulatory mechanisms in monocots related to heterosis.
20973991	Glycoside hydrolases cleave the bond between a carbohydrate and another carbohydrate, a protein, lipid or other moiety. Genes encoding glycoside hydrolases are found in a wide range of organisms, from archea to animals, and are relatively abundant in plant genomes. In plants, these enzymes are involved in diverse processes, including starch metabolism, defense, and cell-wall remodeling. Glycoside hydrolase genes have been previously cataloged for Oryza sativa (rice), the model dicotyledonous plant Arabidopsis thaliana, and the fast-growing tree Populus trichocarpa (poplar). To improve our understanding of glycoside hydrolases in plants generally and in grasses specifically, we annotated the glycoside hydrolase genes in the grasses Brachypodium distachyon (an emerging monocotyledonous model) and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum). We then compared the glycoside hydrolases across species, at the levels of the whole genome and individual glycoside hydrolase families. We identified 356 glycoside hydrolase genes in Brachypodium and 404 in sorghum. The corresponding proteins fell into the same 34 families that are represented in rice, Arabidopsis, and poplar, helping to define a glycoside hydrolase family profile which may be common to flowering plants. For several glycoside hydrolase familes (GH5, GH13, GH18, GH19, GH28, and GH51), we present a detailed literature review together with an examination of the family structures. This analysis of individual families revealed both similarities and distinctions between monocots and eudicots, as well as between species. Shared evolutionary histories appear to be modified by lineage-specific expansions or deletions. Within GH families, the Brachypodium and sorghum proteins generally cluster with those from other monocots. This work provides the foundation for further comparative and functional analyses of plant glycoside hydrolases. Defining the Brachypodium glycoside hydrolases sets the stage for Brachypodium to be a grass model for investigations of these enzymes and their diverse roles in planta. Insights gained from Brachypodium will inform translational research studies, with applications for the improvement of cereal crops and bioenergy grasses.
20974539	Vacuolar H(+)-translocating inorganic pyrophosphatase (V-PPase, EC 3.6.1.1) is an electrogenic proton pump and has been studied in many plants. Here we report characterization of the OVP1 gene from rice (Oryza sativa L.). Quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis (RT-qPCR) showed that OVP1 was induced by cold stress. OVP1 overexpression resulted in enhanced cold tolerance in transgenic rice, which was related to an increased integrity of cell membrane, decreased MDA content and accumulation of proline to higher level as compared with wild type rice seedlings. These results indicated that V-PPase was an important element in the survival strategies of plants under cold stress.
20974735	Ethylene-responsive element-binding factor (ERF) genes constitute one of the largest transcription factor gene families in plants. In Arabidopsis and rice, only a few ERF genes have been characterized so far. Flower senescence is associated with increased ethylene production in many flowers. However, the characterization of ERF genes in flower senescence has not been reported. In this study, 13 ERF cDNAs were cloned from petunia. Based on the sequence characterization, these PhERFs could be classified into four of the 12 known ERF families. Their predicted amino acid sequences exhibited similarities to ERFs from other plant species. Expression analyses of PhERF mRNAs were performed in corollas and gynoecia of petunia flower. The 13 PhERF genes displayed differential expression patterns and levels during natural flower senescence. Exogenous ethylene accelerates the transcription of the various PhERF genes, and silver thiosulphate (STS) decreased the transcription of several PhERF genes in corollas and gynoecia. PhERF genes of group VII showed a strong association with the rise in ethylene production in both petals and gynoecia, and might be associated particularly with flower senescence in petunia. The effect of sugar, methyl jasmonate, and the plant hormones abscisic acid, salicylic acid, and 6-benzyladenine in regulating the different PhERF transcripts was investigated. Functional nuclear localization signal analyses of two PhERF proteins (PhERF2 and PhERF3) were carried out using fluorescence microscopy. These results supported a role for petunia PhERF genes in transcriptional regulation of petunia flower senescence processes.
20974950	Grain yield in many cereal crops is largely determined by grain size. Here we report the genetic and molecular characterization of GS3, a major quantitative trait locus for grain size. It functions as a negative regulator of grain size and organ size. The wild-type isoform is composed of four putative domains: a plant-specific organ size regulation (OSR) domain in the N terminus, a transmembrane domain, a tumor necrosis factor receptor/nerve growth factor receptor (TNFR/NGFR) family cysteine-rich domain, and a von Willebrand factor type C (VWFC) in the C terminus. These domains function differentially in grain size regulation. The OSR domain is both necessary and sufficient for functioning as a negative regulator. The wild-type allele corresponds to medium grain. Loss of function of OSR results in long grain. The C-terminal TNFR/NGFR and VWFC domains show an inhibitory effect on the OSR function; loss-of-function mutations of these domains produced very short grain. This study linked the functional domains of the GS3 protein to natural variation of grain size in rice.
20975018	Red yeast rice (RYR) is a widely available dietary supplement used by millions of patients as an alternative therapy for hyperlipidemia. It contains 14 active compounds called monacolins that inhibit hepatic cholesterol synthesis. Although studies have suggested that some formulations of RYR may be effective and safe for lipid lowering, monacolin levels are not standardized among marketed products and are generally not published on labels. We evaluated monacolin levels in 12 commercial RYR formulations and tested for citrinin, a mycotoxin that is nephrotoxic in animals. Each formulation of RYR was labeled "600 mg/capsule" of active product. Analyses for monacolins and citrinin were performed between August 2006 and June 2008 using high-performance liquid chromatography with mass spectroscopy-mass spectroscopy detection. Laboratory analyses of RYR products were conducted by ConsumerLab.com, White Plains, New York. There was marked variability in the 12 RYR products in total monacolins (0.31-11.15 mg/capsule), monacolin K (lovastatin) (0.10-10.09 mg/capsule), and monacolin KA (0.00-2.30 mg/capsule). Four products had elevated levels of citrinin. We found striking variability in monacolin content in 12 proprietary RYR products and the presence of citrinin in one-third of the formulations tested. Although RYR may have potential as an alternative lipid-lowering agent, our findings suggest the need for improved standardization of RYR products and product labeling. Until this occurs, physicians should be cautious in recommending RYR to their patients for the treatment of hyperlipidemia and primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease.
20975106	This investigation examined the safety and efficacy of a silica-based mineral antioxidant complex (MAC) that has been suggested to influence body water and buffer lactate. In a double-blind, randomized crossover design, male participants completed testing for 3 conditions: water only (baseline), rice flour (placebo), and MAC supplementation. Participants visited the laboratory on 5 occasions: familiarization, baseline, Testing Day 1, washout, and Testing Day 2. Baseline and Testing Days 1 and 2 consisted of fasting blood, pre- to postexercise body-water assessment and determination of VO2peak on a cycle ergometer. The supplementation protocols were separated by 1 wk and balanced to minimize an order effect. No differences between conditions were found for heart rate, blood pressure, or serum-safety markers (p>.05). Before exercise there were no differences between conditions for total body water (TBW), intracellular water (ICW), or extracellular water (ECW). No significant interactive effects for supplementation and exercise were found for TBW, ICW, or ECW (p>.05). A time effect for TBW (p<.01) and ICW (p<.001) was present. Within-group changes in TBW occurred in the MAC condition, and within-group changes for ICW occurred in the MAC and placebo conditions. Ratings of perceived exertion and blood lactate increased (p<.05) with exercise. No significant effects were found for performance variables. MAC supplementation had no impact on aerobic exercise performance and lactate response. Increases in TBW and ICW occurred after MAC consumption, but these changes appeared to have minimal physiological impact.
20975922	The National Academy of Agricultural Science (NAAS) has developed a web-based marker database to provide information about SNP markers in rice. The database consists of three major functional categories: map viewing, marker searching and gene annotation. It provides 12,829 SNP markers information including gene location information on 12 chromosomes in rice. The annotation of SNP marker provides information such as marker name, EST number, gene definition and general marker information. Users are assisted in tracing any new structures of the chromosomes and gene positional functions using specific SNP markers. The database is available for free at http://nabic.niab.go.kr/SNP/
20977217	The effect of the basic residue on the energetics, dynamics, and mechanisms of backbone fragmentation of protonated peptides was investigated. Time-resolved and collision energy-resolved surface-induced dissociation (SID) of singly protonated peptides with the N-terminal arginine residue and their analogues, in which arginine is replaced with less basic lysine and histidine residues, was examined using a specially configured Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer (FTICR-MS). SID experiments demonstrated different kinetics of formation of several primary product ions of peptides with and without arginine residue. The energetics and dynamics of these pathways were determined from Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) modeling of the experimental data. Comparison between the kinetics and energetics of fragmentation of arginine-containing peptides and the corresponding methyl ester derivatives provides important information on the effect of dissociation pathways involving salt bridge (SB) intermediates on the observed fragmentation behavior. Because pathways involving SB intermediates are characterized by low threshold energies, they efficiently compete with classical oxazolone and imine/enol pathways of arginine-containing peptides on a long time scale of the FTICR instrument. In contrast, fragmentation of histidine- and lysine-containing peptides is largely determined by canonical pathways. Because SB pathways are characterized by negative activation entropies, fragmentation of arginine-containing peptides is kinetically hindered and observed at higher collision energies as compared to their lysine- and histidine-containing analogues.
20977268	Some paddy soils in the Bengal delta are contaminated with arsenic (As) due to irrigation of As-laden groundwater, which may lead to yield losses and elevated As transfer to the food chain. Whether these soils have a higher As bioavailability than other soils containing either geogenic As or contaminated by mining activities was investigated in a pot experiment. Fourteen soils varying in the source and the degree (4-138 mg As kg 1⁻¹) of As contamination were collected, 10 from Bangladeshi paddy fields (contaminated by irrigation water) and two each from China and the UK (geogenic or mining impacted), for comparison. Bangladeshi soils had higher percentages of the total As extractable by ammonium phosphate (specifically sorbed As) than other soils and also released more As into the porewater upon flooding. Porewater As concentrations increased with increasing soil As concentrations more steeply in Bangladeshi soils, with arsenite being the dominant As species. Rice growth and grain yield decreased markedly in Bangladeshi soils containing > 13 mg As kg 1⁻¹, but not in the other soils. Phosphate-extractable or porewater As was a better indicator of As bioavailability than total soil As. Rice straw As concentrations increased with increasing soil As concentrations; however, As phytotoxicity appeared to result in lower grain As concentrations. The relative proportions of inorganic As and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) in grain varied among soils, and the percentage DMA was larger in greenhouse-grown plants than grain samples collected from the paddy fields of the same soil and the same rice cultivar, indicating a strong environmental influence on As species found in rice grain. This study shows that Bangladeshi paddy soils contaminated by irrigation had a higher As bioavailability than other soils, resulting in As phytotoxicity in rice and substantial yield losses.
20977390	It is speculated that the physical form (liquid or solid) of the food substrate has an independent effect on the body's satiety mechanisms. Using a balanced and controlled design, the objective of the present study was to determine the glycemic response (GR), insulin response (IR) and subjective feelings of satiety to two solid (rice [BR] and spaghetti) and two liquid (orange juice and a sugar-sweetened fruit drink [SSD]) foods. Ten healthy participants consumed volume (576 ml) and carbohydrate (50 g) matched portions of the above test foods following a 12-h fast. Blood samples were obtained for the ensuing 120 min for glucose and insulin determination. The subjects also completed visual analog scales (VAS) providing data on subjective feelings of hunger, fullness and satiety. Although there were some significant differences in the total incremental areas under the curve for the GR and IR to liquids and solids, there were notable distinctions in the pattern of the response curves. The BR and SSD elicited significantly different levels of subjective hunger, fullness and satiety. The VAS ratings for all four treatments were at or below baseline by 30 min post-consumption. There were no associations between the GR/IR and VAS ratings. Although the GR and IR were not different between liquids and solids, their differential response patterns could have an impact on satiety and merits further investigation.
20977655	Heterosis, or hybrid vigor, is the phenomenon whereby progeny of two inbred lines exhibit superior agronomic performance compared with either parent. We analyzed the expression of miRNAs and highly expressed small RNAs (defined according to Solexa sequencing results) in two rice (Oryza sativa) subspecies (japonica cv. Nipponbare and indica cv. 93-11) and their reciprocal hybrids using microarrays. We found that of all the 1141 small RNAs tested, 140 (12%, 140 of 1141) and 157 (13%, 157 of 1141) were identified being significantly differentially expressed in two reciprocal hybrids, respectively. All possible modes of action, including additive, high- and low- parent, above high- and below low-parent modes were exhibited. Both F1 hybrids showed non-additive expression patterns, with downregulation predominating. Interestingly, 15 miRNAs displayed stark opposite expression trends relative to mid-parent in reciprocal hybrids. Computational prediction of targets of differentially expressed miRNAs showed that they participated in multifaceted developmental pathways, and were not distinguishable from the targets of non-differentially expressed miRNAs. Together, our findings reveal that small RNAs play roles in heterosis and add a new layer in the understanding and exploitation of molecular mechanisms of heterosis.
20977656	Following the idea of partial root-zone drying (PRD) in crop cultivation, the morphological and physiological responses to partial root osmotic stress (PROS) and whole root osmotic stress (WROS) were investigated in rice. WROS caused stress symptoms like leaf rolling and membrane leakage. PROS stimulated stress signals, but did not cause severe leaf damage. By proteomic analysis, a total of 58 proteins showed differential expression after one or both treatments, and functional classification of these proteins suggests that stress signals regulate photosynthesis, carbohydrate and energy metabolism. Two other proteins (anthranilate synthase and submergence-induced nickel-binding protein) were upregulated only in the PROS plants, indicating their important roles in stress resistance. Additionally, more enzymes were involved in stress defense, redox homeostasis, lignin and ethylene synthesis in WROS leaves, suggesting a more comprehensive regulatory mechanism induced by osmotic stress. This study provides new insights into the complex molecular networks within plant leaves involved in the adaptation to osmotic stress and stress signals.
20977657	A major objective of quantitative trait locus (QTL) studies is to find genes/markers that can be used in breeding programs via marker assisted selection (MAS). We surveyed the QTLs for yield and yield-related traits and their genomic distributions in common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) in the available published reports. We then carried out a meta-QTL (MQTL) analysis to identify the major and consistent QTLs for these traits. In total, 55 MQTLs were identified, of which 12 significant MQTLs were located on wheat chromosomes 1A, 1B, 2A, 2D, 3B, 4A, 4B, 4D and 5A. Our study showed that the genetic control of yield and its components in common wheat involved the important genes such as Rht and Vrn. Furthermore, several significant MQTLs were found in the chromosomal regions corresponding to several rice genomic locations containing important QTLs for yield related traits. Our results demonstrate that meta-QTL analysis is a powerful tool for confirming the major and stable QTLs and refining their chromosomal positions in common wheat, which may be useful for improving the MAS efficiency of yield related traits.
20977658	Bamboo occupies an important phylogenetic node in the grass family and plays a significant role in the forest industry. We produced 1.2 Mb of tetraploid moso bamboo (Phyllostachys pubescens E. Mazel ex H. de Leh.) sequences from 13 bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones, and these are the largest genomic sequences available so far from the subfamily Bambusoideae. The content of repetitive elements (36.2%) in bamboo is similar to that in rice. Both rice and sorghum exhibit high genomic synteny with bamboo, which suggests that rice and sorghum may be useful as models for decoding Bambusoideae genomes.
20977659	WUSCHEL-related homeobox (WOX) genes form a large gene family specifically expressed in plants. They are known to play important roles in regulating the development of plant tissues and organs by determining cell fate. Recent available whole genome sequences allow us to do more comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of the WOX genes in plants. In the present study, we identified 11 and 21 WOXs from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and maize (Zea mays), respectively. The 72 WOX genes from rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum, maize, Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and poplar (Populus trichocarpa) were grouped into three well supported clades with nine subgroups according to the amino acid sequences of their homodomains. Their phylogenetic relationship was also supported by the observation of the motifs outside the homodomain. We observed the variation of duplication events among the nine sub-groups between monocots and eudicots, for instance, more gene duplication events of WOXs within subgroup A for monocots, while, less for dicots in this subgroup. Furthermore, we observed the conserved intron/exon structural patterns of WOX genes in rice, sorghum and Arabidopsis. In addition, WUS (Wuschel)-box and EAR (the ERF-associated amphiphilic repression)-like motif were observed to be conserved among several WOX subgroups in these five plants. Comparative analysis of expression patterns of WOX genes in rice and Arabidopsis suggest that the WOX genes play conserved and various roles in plants. This work provides insights into the evolution of the WOX gene family and is useful for future research.
20978084	Crown roots are main components of the fibrous root system and important for crops to anchor and absorb water and nutrition. To understand the molecular mechanisms of crown root formation, we isolated a rice mutant defective in crown root emergence designated as Oscand1 (named after the Arabidopsis homologous gene AtCAND1). The defect of visible crown root in the Oscand1 mutant is the result of cessation of the G2/M cell cycle transition in the crown root meristem. Map-based cloning revealed that OsCAND1 is a homolog of Arabidopsis CAND1. During crown root primordium development, the expression of OsCAND1 is confined to the root cap after the establishment of fundamental organization. The transgenic plants harboring DR5::GUS showed that auxin signaling in crown root tip is abnormal in the mutant. Exogenous auxin application can partially rescue the defect of crown root development in Oscand1. Taken together, these data show that OsCAND1 is involved in auxin signaling to maintain the G2/M cell cycle transition in crown root meristem and, consequently, the emergence of crown root. Our findings provide new information about the molecular regulation of the emergence of crown root in rice.
20978800	Transgenic rice plants overexpressing a rice tyrosine decarboxylase (TyDC) exhibited a dwarf phenotype with a high level of tyramine accumulation. The height of transgenic rice was reduced on average to 35% of the wild-type height, whereas the number of tillers increased to 190% that of wild type. When judged by cellular distribution of tyramine and tyramine derivatives, the level of tyramine in soluble and insoluble fractions was higher than that of tyramine derivatives such as 4-coumaroyltyramine (CT) in the transgenic rice plants, suggesting that tyramine rather than its derivatives was a causative compound triggering the dwarf phenotype. Microscopic observation revealed that cell size in the transgenic lines was maintained, with a slightly irregular arrangement in the leaf mesophyll cells. When wild-type rice seeds were grown in the presence of tyramine, rice seedlings also showed stunted phenotypes in a dose-dependent manner. When these stunted seedlings were employed to measure the degree of cellular proliferation by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation, only small numbers of cells were found to retain labeled nuclei in shoot tips compared with the untreated control. These results show that the dwarf phenotype associated with tyramine accumulation in transgenic rice plants is attributable to a reduction in cell number rather than cell size. In addition, our dwarf phenotype caused by tyramine was not closely associated with known dwarf genes such as D88.
20978866	Recently, a study reported that magnesium played a part in the attack of chronic diseases, such as arteriosclerosis, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and hypertension. However, there are not even enough studies to evaluate magnesium intakes. Therefore, in this study, we evaluated the magnesium intakes of 500 healthy adults. In addition, by selecting 50 targets, we examined the correlation between magnesium intake and antioxidant capacity biomarkers. In the age group of 19-29, the daily magnesium intake was 276.3 mg for males and 232.1 mg for females. In the age group of 30-49, it was 305.1 mg and 246.5 mg, respectively. In the age group of 50-64, the magnesium intake was 294.4 mg for males and 245.7 mg for females. As for the age group of 19-29, the magnesium intake per 4,187 kJ of energy intake was 129.8 mg, which was significantly lower than the 164.6 mg by the age group of 30-49 and 172.4 mg by the age group of 50-64. The ratio of magnesium intake to the recommended intake was 82.1% for those in the age group of 19-29, 87.7% for those in 30-49, and 86.1% for those in 50-64. The rate of the subjects with magnesium intakes lower than the estimated average requirement was 55.3% in the age group of 19-29, 52.4% in 30-49, and 54.2% in 50-64. The magnesium intake from food groups were in the descending order of vegetables, cereals, and fish for the subjects in the age group of 19-29, and vegetables, cereals, and beverages for the subjects in the age groups of 30-49 and 50-64. The source food items of magnesium intake were in the descending order of Kimchi, tofu, rice, and coffee in the age group of 19-29, coffee, Kimchi, tofu, and rice in 30-49, and coffee, Kimchi, rice, and tofu in 50-64. From the 50 targets aged 19-29, significant correlation was not indicated among magnesium intake, serum magnesium, and antioxidant capacity biomarkers. In conclusion, the magnesium intake status of some Korean adults is unsatisfactory. And it is suggested that this low intake of magnesium has no correlation with antioxidant capacity.
20980157	The structural domain corresponding to the Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) is a mannose-binding motif that was originally discovered in plants but according to recent data also occurs in other eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Transcriptome analyses revealed that Fusarium verticillioides expresses a protein (FvGLLc1) identical to a recently identified cytoplasmic/nuclear GNA-like lectin from maize (ZmGLLc). The FvGLLc1 and ZmGLLc gene sequences are nearly identical in the coding region as well as in the intron and the 5 and 3 prime untranslated regions. However, whereas the Fusarium genome contains only a single gene with an intron, both an intronless and an intron containing lectin gene can be amplified from maize DNA. Southern blot analysis confirmed the presence of this cytoplasmic GNA-like gene in the maize and rice genome. A comparative analysis of the products amplified by different PCRs using genomic DNA from Fusarium species and maize DNA samples from sterile as well as contaminated plant material strongly indicated that the GNA-like sequence found in maize grown under sterile conditions is not derived from a contaminating Fusarium species. Furthermore, using a PCR-based approach it could be demonstrated that this particular type of lectin occurs also in other plants from distant taxa and is markedly conserved.
20980158	Rice seedlings subjected to heat shock show rapid and transient induction of Oshsp17.4-CI, Oshsp17.9A-CI and OsClpB-cyt/hsp100 transcripts. When the seedlings were pre-treated with protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, levels of the above transcripts during heat shock were more elevated than those seen with heat shock alone. Heat stress and cycloheximide co-treatment resulted in higher transcript accumulation in comparison to cycloheximide pre-treatment followed by heat stress. In transgenic plants raised with OsClpB-cyt/hsp100 promoter driving expression of the reporter gus gene, expression of the gus transcript was subjected to similar superinduction event as was seen with native OsClpB-cyt/hsp100 transcripts in untransformed plants. Yeast cells transformed with variably-sized rice ClpB-cyt/hsp100 promoter driving expression of the lacZ reporter transcript showed that specific sequences of the promoter region may be implicated in superinduction.
20980490	Refined carbohydrates have been suggested to deteriorate glucose metabolism; however, whether persons with elevated intakes of white rice, which is a major staple food for the Japanese, experience increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes remains unclear. We prospectively investigated the association between white rice intake and risk of type 2 diabetes. Participants were 25,666 men and 33,622 women aged 45-75 y who participated in the second survey of the Japan Public Health Center-based Prospective Study and who had no prior history of diabetes. We ascertained food intake by using a validated 147-item food-frequency questionnaire. Odds ratios of self-reported, physician-diagnosed type 2 diabetes over 5 y were estimated by using logistic regressions. A total of 1103 new cases of type 2 diabetes were self-reported. There was a significant association between rice intake and an increased risk of type 2 diabetes in women; the multivariate-adjusted odds ratio for the highest compared with lowest quartiles of rice intake was 1.65 (95% CI: 1.06, 2.57; P for trend = 0.005). In men, the association was unclear, although there was a suggestion of a positive association in persons who were not engaged in strenuous physical activity (P for trend = 0.08). Elevated intake of white rice is associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes in Japanese women. The finding that is suggestive of a positive association of rice intake in physically inactive men deserves further investigation.
20980987
20982492
20984583
2098472	Field studies of Dajabon Province, Dominican Republic, revealed that Anopheles albimanus and An. vestitipennis were the most abundant anopheline species followed by An. crucians and An. grabhamii. Three of the species were collected as adults and larvae whereas An. grabhamii was found only in the adult stage. Perennial ponds and rice fields were the most important larval habitats. The anophelines were predominantly exophilic and exophagic; however, outdoor resting sites could not be identified. Large numbers of mosquitoes were collected from corrals at night and also by using an animal-baited net trap and UV light traps. Man-biting collections showed an early evening peak of biting activity by An. albimanus and An. vestitipennis. Only 23% and 13% of the bites by the 2 species, respectively, occurred indoors.
2098551	Polished rice samples harvested in 1985 were collected from 25 prefectures throughout Japan. Concentrations of both tissue free water tritium (TFWT) and organically bound tritium (OBT) were determined. Nearly uniform distribution of the TFWT and OBT concentrations was observed in Japan, taking into account a relatively large counting error. The average values for all Japanese polished rice were 2.69 +/- 0.74 Bq/L for the TFWT concentration, 2.01 +/- 0.78 Bq/L for the OBT concentration and 0.83 +/- 0.32 for the specific activity ratio. The TFWT concentration was within the range of tritium concentration of the land water reported by other researchers. The specific activity ratio below unity also confirmed by analyses of the 4 Chinese polished rice samples suggests that OBT in the rice is not equilibrated with TFWT or HTO in the environment because of isotope discrimination.
20986279
20986280
20987306
20995077
20998421
20999651
21000992
21005744
21006306
2100759	Investigations to determine dermal contamination of rural farmers during pesticide application to tropical crops are described. Contamination patterns and levels vary according to crop type and height, and application method. Non-toxic model pesticides and tracer dyes were applied to rice, vegetable, mango, cotton and coffee crops in the Philippines, Thailand, Tanzania and Malawi, using knapsack and ULV spinning disc sprayers. Tracer dye falling on the operator during application was measured for each type of crop sprayed. Mean gross dermal deposits of dye were: rice 97 mg/hr; mango 257 mg/hr; vegetables 103 mg/hr; cotton 220 mg/hr; coffee 95 mg/hr. The implications of these gross dermal deposit figures in relation to pesticide contamination and hazard are discussed.
2100760	To support the continued use and the registration of monocrotophos, a field study was conducted at Calauan, Laguna, The Philippines, to assess exposure and the resulting health risk to 21 spraymen applying monocrotophos to rice crop by knapsack spraying during 3 consecutive days. The findings of the study were as follows: exposure of uncovered hands and of the skin of the back to the concentrate was visually observed during the filling, and respectively loading operations; During spraying exposure from airborne diluted formulation occurred; in addition contamination of the lower parts of the body took place because of direct contact with the sprayed crop; Determination of the amount of the urinary metabolite dimethylphosphate excreted in 24 hours urine samples demonstrated absorption of monocrotophos into the body of the spraymen. The half-life of elimination of the urinary metabolite from the body was on average 18 hours; No clinically significant inhibitions of whole blood or red blood cell cholinesterase activities were found, i.e., 30% below baseline values. However, 8 of 21 spraymen had plasma cholinesterase levels below 50% of baseline values;--No acute adverse health effects associated with the application of monocrotophos were observed, which was in accordance with the absence of clinically significant cholinesterase depressions. The conclusion of the study was that the use of monocrotophos under prevailing typical conditions in the Philippines, which varies from a frequency of one application per season to a maximum of 3 applications each on 3 consecutive days per week, and where label safety instructions are not necessarily observed, is not expected to pose an acute health risk under the prevailing conditions and practices, which includes filling, spraying and cleaning activities. From the experience in this study it is clear that proper spraying technique and adequate use of personal protection will significantly reduce exposure. As such a reduction is highly recommendable, advice on proper spray procedures and adequate personal protection has been reinforced.
2101091	This study was conducted to determine the incorporation of 15nitrogen (15N) into liver and kidney of a group of rats (N = 17) fed a mixture of cooked rice and beans for 4 weeks. The beans (Phaseolus vulgaris), grown in soil cultivated with (15NH4)2SO4, had 1.5% 15N enrichment. Three or four rats were sacrificed weekly and a control group (N = 13) received an isonitrogen and isocaloric reference casein diet. The amount of nitrogen transferred from the beans to the liver at the end of the first, second, third and fourth weeks was 17, 11, 27 and 29% of the total nitrogen, respectively. For the kidney, the respective values were 10, 9, 25 and 27% of the total nitrogen. The total nitrogen content of the liver and kidney of rats receiving the reference casein control diet was similar to that of the rice/beans animals. Weight gain was similar for the two groups, indicating the well-balanced biological value of the experimental diet. The present study shows that it is possible to monitor 15N incorporation into beans and subsequently into rat liver and kidney, in contrast to classical methods for protein metabolism evaluation which measure only total body nitrogen intake and excretion or weight gain.
2101310	A chimeric gene consisting of the 5' flanking sequences of a rice glutelin gene (Gt3) linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) coding segment was introduced into tobacco via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. CAT enzyme activity could be detected in extracts from seeds as early as 8 days after flowering and obtained a maximum level at 16 days after flowering, the onset of overall protein accumulation. Significant expression of CAT activity in non-seed tissues occurred in some, but not all plants, suggesting possible chromosome position effects on non-seed tissue expression. A positive correlation was observed between expression levels in seeds and gene copy numbers.
2101384
21015631
2101688	The complete nucleotide sequence of Citrus limon 26S rDNA has been determined. The sequence has been aligned with large ribosomal RNA (L-rRNA) sequences of Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Oryza sativa. Nine extensive expansion segments in dicot 26S rRNA relative to E. coli 23S rRNA have been identified and compared with analogous segments of monocot, yeast, amphibian and human L-rRNAs. A secondary structure model for lemon 26S rRNA has been derived based on the refined model of E. coli 23S rRNA. It has been compared with other eukaryotic L-rRNAs models in terms of location of functionally important regions. Origin and evolution of L-rRNA expansion segments are discussed.
2101689	We have isolated and sequenced a full-length cDNA clone containing information for the rice actin gene RAc1. Transcript terminus mapping and sequence alignment between the RAc1 cDNA clone and a previously isolated RAc1 genomic clone were used to determine the structure of the RAc1 gene. This allowed us to make the first complete structural characterization of a plant actin gene. The analysis revealed the presence of a 5'-noncoding exon, separated by an intron, from the first translated exon of the RAc1 gene. This is one of the few reported cases of a plant gene containing such a 5'-noncoding exon. Sequence comparison between the previously isolated plant actin genes suggests that such an exon may be a common feature of plant actin gene structure. The present study also confirms that the rice actin gene family is composed of at least eight unique members.
21017316
2102372	The cauliflower mosaic virus promoter is commonly used to drive transcription of chimeric genes in transgenic plants, including the cereals. To determine the tissue and cell types of cereal plants that the promoter functions in, transgenic rice plants containing a CaMV 35S promoter/GUS chimeric gene were analyzed for GUS activity. Insertion of a 35S/GUS chimeric gene at low copy number into chromosomal DNA of plants regenerated from electroporated protoplasts was confirmed by gel blot hybridization analysis of uncut and endonuclease-digested DNA. Quantitative measurement showed that GUS activity was some tenfold higher in rice leaves than in tobacco leaves whereas activities obtained for rice roots were similar to those reported for tobacco roots. Histochemical localization of GUS activity confirmed that the CaMV 35S promoter functions in cells of the leaf epidermis, mesophyll and vascular bundle. It is also active in the cortex and vascular cylinder of the root, but only marginally active in the root epidermis. The generally similar distribution and levels of GUS activity obtained in differentiated tissue of stably transformed rice plants indicates the value of the CaMV 35S promoter as a positive control for studies in gene activity in transgenic monocots and dicots.
21024815
21026768
2102841
2102847	To establish the size and organization of the rice alpha-amylase multigene family, we have isolated 30 alpha-amylase clones from three independent genomic libraries. Partial characterization of these clones indicates that they fall into 5 hybridization groups containing a total of 10 genes. Two clones belonging to the Group 3 hybridization class have more than one gene per cloned fragment. The nucleotide sequence of one clone from Group 1, lambda OSg2, was determined and compared to other known cereal alpha-amylase sequences revealing that lambda OSg2 is the genomic analog of the rice cDNA clone, pOS103. The rice alpha-amylase genes in Group 1 are analogous to the alpha-Amy1 genes in barley and wheat. lambda OSg2 contains sequence motifs common to most actively transcribed genes in plants. Two consensus sequences, TAACAAGA and TATCCAT, were found in the 5' flanking regions of alpha-amylase genes of rice, barley and wheat. The former sequence may be specific to alpha-amylase gene while the latter sequence may be related to a 'CATC' box found in many plant genes. Another sequence called the pyrimidine box (TCCTTTTTC) was found in the alpha-amylase genes as well as other genes regulated by gibberellic acid (GA). Comparisons based on amino acid sequence alignment revealed that the multigene families in rice, barley and wheat shared a common ancestor which contained three introns. Some of the descendants of the progenitor alpha-amylase gene appear to have lost the middle intron while others maintain all three introns.
21028809	It has previously been shown that across different arsenic (As) soil environments, a decrease in grain selenium (Se), zinc (Zn), and nickel (Ni) concentrations is associated with an increase in grain As. In this study we aim to determine if there is a genetic element for this observation or if it is driven by the soil As environment. To determine the genetic and environmental effect on grain element composition, multielement analysis using ICP-MS was performed on rice grain from a range of rice cultivars grown in 4 different field sites (2 in Bangladesh and 2 in West Bengal). At all four sites a negative correlation was observed between grain As and grain Ni, while at three of the four sites a negative correlation was observed between grain As and grain Se and grain copper (Cu). For manganese, Ni, Cu, and Se there was also a significant genetic interaction with grain arsenic indicating some cultivars are more strongly affected by arsenic than others.
21030312	The currently developed next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology has significantly enhanced our capacity of small RNA (sRNA) exploration. Several ambitious sRNA projects have been established based on the technical support of NGS. Thanks to the high-throughput feature of NGS, huge amounts of sRNA sequencing data have been generated. However, much more research efforts are needed to further exploit these valuable data. In this study, we carried out functional analyses of sRNAs from 26 angiosperms by utilizing public sRNA NGS data. We proposed that the endogenous sRNAs largely represented by the 24-nt ones had a potential role in transposable element (TE) control in both Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), based on the comparison of sRNA locus densities within the TEs to the non-TE genes. Functional analysis was performed for the predicted targets of the conserved sRNAs that were classified into eudicot-specific, monocot-specific, and angiosperm-conserved ones. Moreover, several miRNA families were found to be highly conserved, and miR396 was suggested to be the most conserved miRNA family between the eudicots and the monocots, indicating its essential role in angiosperm development. At last, we demonstrated that it was a great challenge for researchers to fully exploit these huge sRNA NGS datasets and numerous sRNA species remained to be uncovered and functionally characterized.
21030736	In this paper, we are interested in the problem of approximating trees by trees with a particular self-nested structure. Self-nested trees are such that all their subtrees of a given height are isomorphic. We show that these trees present remarkable compression properties, with high compression rates. In order to measure how far a tree is from being a self-nested tree, we then study how to quantify the degree of self-nestedness of any tree. For this, we define a measure of the self-nestedness of a tree by constructing a self-nested tree that minimizes the distance of the original tree to the set of self-nested trees that embed the initial tree. We show that this measure can be computed in polynomial time and depict the corresponding algorithm. The distance to this nearest embedding self-nested tree (NEST) is then used to define compression coefficients that reflect the compressibility of a tree. To illustrate this approach, we then apply these notions to the analysis of plant branching structures. Based on a database of simulated theoretical plants in which different levels of noise have been introduced, we evaluate the method and show that the NESTs of such branching structures restore partly or completely the original, noiseless, branching structures. The whole approach is then applied to the analysis of a real plant (a rice panicle) whose topological structure was completely measured. We show that the NEST of this plant may be interpreted in biological terms and may be used to reveal important aspects of the plant growth.
21031158	This paper provides the first real-world evidence of Giffen behavior, i.e., upward sloping demand. Subsidizing the prices of dietary staples for extremely poor households in two provinces of China, we find strong evidence of Giffen behavior for rice in Hunan, and weaker evidence for wheat in Gansu. The data provide new insight into the consumption behavior of the poor, who act as though maximizing utility subject to subsistence concerns. We find that their elasticity of demand depends significantly, and nonlinearly, on the severity of their poverty. Understanding this heterogeneity is important for the effective design of welfare programs for the poor. (JEL D12, O12).
21031252	This study analyzes the factors that have triggered a gradual deterioration of eating habits and the new social and cultural imperatives that have seriously undermined the well-being of Spanish consumers. It shows that consumption of basic food products to ensure good nutrition has declined, while consumption of unhealthy food products has increased. The consumption of cereals, rice, legumes and wine has significantly declined; meat, milk, dairy products and fat consumption has substantially increased. Moreover, eating habits have changed and diversified, adapting to new constraints imposed by an increasingly industrialized society. Conclusions and recommendations for acquiring healthy eating habits are presented at the end of the paper.
21033746	C-type starch, which is a combination of both A-type and B-type crystal starch, is usually found in legumes and rhizomes. We have developed a high-amylose transgenic line of rice (TRS) by antisense RNA inhibition of starch branching enzymes. The starch in the endosperm of this TRS was identified as typical C-type crystalline starch, but its fine granular structure and allomorph distribution remained unclear. In this study, we conducted morphological and spectroscopic studies on this TRS starch during acid hydrolysis to determine the distribution of A- and B-type allomorphs. The morphology of starch granules after various durations of acid hydrolysis was compared by optical microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. The results showed that amorphous regions were located at the center part of TRS starch subgranules. During acid hydrolysis, starch was degraded from the interior of the subgranule to the outer surface, while the peripheral part of the subgranules and the surrounding band of the starch granule were highly resistant to acid hydrolysis. The spectroscopic changes detected by X-ray powder diffraction, 13C cross-polarization magic-angle spinning NMR, and attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared showed that the A-type allomorph was hydrolyzed more rapidly than the B-type, and that the X-ray diffraction profile gradually changed from a native C-type to a CB-type with increasing hydrolysis time. Our results showed that, in TRS starch, the A-type allomorph was located around the amorphous region, and was surrounded by the B-type allomorph located in the peripheral region of the subgranules and the surrounding band of the starch granule. Thus, the positions of A- and B-type allomorphs in the TRS C-type starch granule differ markedly from those in C-type legume and rhizome starch.
21034364	The aim of this study was to encapsulate ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate (EMC), a commonly used UVB filter, in a solid lipid matrix in order to obtain microparticles and then nanoparticles to reduce its photo-instability under UV light exposure. Glyceryl behenate, rice bran wax and ozokerite were investigated for encapsulating EMC. The suspensions of nanoparticles contained 70% encapsulated EMC (relative to the lipid mass). The absorbance level at 310 nm of suspensions containing nanoparticles was more than twice that of those containing microparticles. So, decreasing the size of particles improved the efficiency of light protection, regardless of the lipid material used. Moreover, free EMC presented a 30% loss of its efficiency after 2 h of irradiation, whereas the three NLC formulations showed a loss of absorbency between 10% and 21%. The in vitro cutaneous penetration test did not show a higher potential penetration for EMC contained in nanosuspensions compared to free EMC.
2103437	Variation in the DNA sequence of the 10 kDa prolamin gene family within the wild rice species Oryza rufipogon was probed using the direct sequencing of PCR-amplified genes. A comparison of the nucleotide and deduced amino-acid sequences of eight Asian strains of O. rufipogon and one strain of the related African species O. longistaminata is presented.
2103449	Four rice (Oryza sativa) genomic actin genes have been characterized. The rice actin genes show a conservation of intron number and position that is characteristic of plant actins. Sequence comparisons revealed that the plant actins generally have a high degree of inter- and intraspecific sequence heterogeneity. However, one rice actin gene has a much higher degree of nucleotide sequence identity to a previously isolated actin sequence from Arabidopsis thaliana than to any other plant actin gene. This leads us to suggest that the two sequences may represent functionally homologous genes which arose from an ancient actin gene lineage that was separated by the divergence of the dicot and monocot plants. Genomic DNA blot analysis showed that the rice actin gene family contains at least eight unique members. RNA hybridization analysis revealed that individual rice actin genes can display different patterns of transcript accumulation. The observed differences in sequence and transcript accumulation patterns suggest that the individual rice actin genes may differ in their transcriptional regulation and/or cellular function.
2103453	The nucleotide sequence of a 1 kbp region of pea chloroplast DNA upstream from the gene petA encoding apocytochrome f has been determined. An open reading frame of 231 codons (ORF231) encoding a putative membrane-spanning polypeptide is separated by 205 bp from the coding region of petA. The open reading frame is homologous to open reading frames located in a similar position with respect to petA in chloroplast DNA from Marchantia polymorpha, tobacco, rice, wheat and Vicia faba. The sequence around a conserved histidine residue in a putative membrane-spanning region of the polypeptide resembles sequences present in cytochrome b from chromaffin granules and neutrophil membranes, suggesting that the open reading frame may encode a haem-binding polypeptide, possibly a b-type cytochrome. Northern hybridisation analysis indicates the presence in pea chloroplasts of a complex pattern of transcripts containing ORF231. Large transcripts of 5.5 kb, 4.3 kb, 3.4 kb and 2.7 kb encode both ORF231 and apocytochrome f, indicating that ORF231 and petA are co-transcribed.
2103460	By differential screening of a cDNA library of two-week-old rice seedlings cDNA clones were obtained, corresponding to shoot-specific mRNAs. By sequence analysis two of these clones were found to be rbcS cDNA clones. The mRNA corresponding to a third cDNA clone (COS5) displayed an expression pattern similar to the expression pattern of rbcS genes. The mRNA (800 bases) was light-inducible and encoded by a single-copy gene. The genomic clone (GOS5) was isolated and the intron/exon structure was determined by comparing the nucleotide sequences of the mRNA and the genomic clone. The gene contains two introns. Transcription start sites were determined by S1-nuclease mapping and primer extension. The start site obtained by both methods is located 87 bp upstream of the translation start site and 23 bp downstream of TATA box-like sequence. In the 5' non-coding region motifs can be found that are homologous to sequences in promoters that are light- or UV-inducible or confer leaf-specific expression. The open reading frame present in GOS5 codes for a protein (15 kDa) that contains a putative chloroplast transit peptide and does not show any significant homology to protein sequences in the NBRF protein database.
2103482
21034879	Vitamin B-6 is an important cofactor in many metabolic processes. However, vitamin B-6 intake and plasma status have not been well studied in the Puerto Rican population, a group with documented health disparities. To assess dietary intake of vitamin B-6, food sources, and plasma status of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), and their associations with plasma homocysteine in 1,236 Puerto Rican adults, aged 45 to 75 years, living in the greater Boston area. Baseline data were analyzed cross-sectionally. Questionnaire data were collected by home interview. Dietary intake was assessed with a semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire. Plasma PLP and homocysteine were assayed from blood samples collected in the home. The mean daily intake of vitamin B-6 was 2.90 ± 1.28 mg for men and 2.61 ± 1.29 mg for women (P<0.001). Approximately 11% were deficient (PLP <4.94 ng/mL [PLP <20 nmol/L]) and another 17% insufficient (PLP ≥ 4.94 but <7.41 ng/mL [PLP ≥ 20 but <30 nmol/L]). Household income below the poverty threshold, physical inactivity, and current smoking were significantly associated with lower plasma PLP (P<0.05). Food groups contributing most to vitamin B-6 intake included ready-to-eat cereals, poultry, rice, potatoes, and dried beans. However, only intake of ready-to-eat cereals and use of supplements with vitamin B-6 were significantly associated with plasma PLP sufficiency (≥ 7.41 vs <7.41 ng/mL [PLP ≥ 30 vs <30 nmol/L], P<0.01). Both vitamin B-6 intake and PLP were significantly associated with plasma total homocysteine (P<0.001). The association between PLP and homocysteine remained statistically significant after further adjustment for plasma vitamin B-12 and folate (P=0.028). Given the known importance of vitamin B-6 to health, the high prevalence of low vitamin B-6 status in this Puerto Rican population is of concern. Further work is needed to clarify the potential role that insufficient vitamin B-6 may have in relation to the observed health disparities in this population.
21035092	Rice is the primary carbohydrate staple cereal feeding the world population. Many genes, known as quantitative trait loci (QTLs), control most of the agronomically important traits in rice. The identification of QTLs controlling agricultural traits is vital to increase yield and meet the needs of the increasing human population, but the progress met with challenges due to complex QTL inheritance. To date, many QTLs have been detected in rice, including those responsible for yield and grain quality; salt, drought and submergence tolerance; disease and insect resistance; and nutrient utilization efficiency. Map-based cloning techniques have enabled scientists to successfully fine map and clone approximately seventeen QTLs for several traits. Additional in-depth functional analyses and characterizations of these genes will provide valuable assistance in rice molecular breeding.
21035096	Synthesized allopolyploids are valuable materials for comparative analyses of two or more distinct genomes, such as the expression changes (activation, inactivation or differential expression) of orthologous genes following allopolyploidization. CENH3 is a centromere- specific histone H3 variant and has been regarded as a central component in kinetochore formation and centromere function. In this study, interspecific hybrids of Oryza genus (AA × CC, AA × CCDD) and their backcross progenies were produced, and the genome constitutions were identified as AC, ACC, ACD, AACD, or AA(CD) by Genomic in situ hybridization (GISH). We further cloned and sequenced the CENH3 genes from O. sativa (AA), O. officinalis (CC) and O. latifolia (CCDD). Sequencing of RT-PCR products revealed that CENH3_C2 and CENH3_D, the two CENH3 alleles from O. latifolia, showed polymorphism in several sites, while CENH3_C2 and CENH3_C1 from O. officinalis were different at only two amino acids positions. Moreover, we found that the CENH3 genes from both parents are expressed in interspecific hybrids and their progenies. Specifically, based on our cDNA sequencing data, the ratio of expression level between CENH3_A and CENH3_C1 was approximately 1 in AC and 0.5 in ACC genomes, respectively. As a result, the CENH3 expression patterns shed more light on the inter-coordination between varied centromeric DNA sequences and highly conserved kinetochore protein in synthesized allopolyploids of Oryza genus.
21035315	We report on the case of a 3-year-old child from La Réunion island, who presented with hypoglycemic hypoketotic coma secondary to a primary Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. The discovery of the G1528C homozygote mutation provided the diagnosis of long-chain-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA-dehydrogenase (LCHAD); an adapted dietary plan with prevention of fasting and L-carnitine supplementation was initiated. After 2 years, a pigmentary retinopathy appeared and muscle weakness increased. Isolated LCHAD deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder of fatty acid metabolism. Prevalence is about 1-9/100,000 and diagnosis is often made before the age of 2 years. The late age of revelation in our case is related to a spontaneous diet without animal fats (disgust for meat, diet based on white rice and skimmed milk) and nighttime breastfeeding until the age of 3 years. In an affected fetus, heterozygous mothers are susceptible to developing a hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelets (HELLP) syndrome or an acute fatty liver pregnancy (AFLP) syndrome during the 3rd trimester of pregnancy, which motivated us to set up a systematic neonatal screening program and a specific monitoring of these newborns.
2103593	Data from the literature suggest that the nutritional environment can modify major metabolic functions of fungi and possibly their aggressivity towards keratinous structures. Trichophyton rubrum (TR), Microsporum canis (MC), Scopulariopsis brevicaulis (SB), Aspergillus fumigatus (AF) and Penicillium spec. (P) were inoculated on media of different nutritional value, in presence of nail fragments. The activity of the fungi was evaluated at two and four weeks for intensity and depth of invasion of nail samples. Nail invasion was most pronounced by MC, especially when grown on rice agar or peptone agar. Nail invasion by the other fungi tested was less important, Sabourand glucose and rice agar were most favorable. Our results indicate that nutritional factors can, at least in some fungus species, alter their rate of nail invasion.
21036398	The effects of commercial formulation containing quinclorac and metsulfuron-methyl herbicides on acetylcholinesterase (AChE), antioxidant profile and metabolic parameters in teleost fish (Leporinus obtusidens) were studied. The fish were exposed during 90 days to commercial formulation containing quinclorac (204 μg L(-1)) and metsulfuron-methyl (5.8 μg L(-1)) herbicides in rice field irrigated condition. AChE activity in the brain and muscle decreased after exposure to both commercial formulations. The same response was observed for the TBARS levels in brain, liver and muscle. Liver catalase activity reduced after exposure to commercial formulation containing quinclorac and metsulfuron-methyl herbicides. Metabolic parameters in the liver and white muscle (glycogen, lactate, protein and glucose) were determined. These parameters showed different changes after exposure to both commercial formulations. This study pointed out long-term effects of exposure to commercial formulations containing herbicides used in rice on metabolic and enzymatic parameters in tissues of L. obtusidens.
21036602	In this study, solid superacid was employed to catalyze the decomposition of steam exploded rice straw (SERS) for the production of levulinic acid, a versatile platform chemical. The results revealed that solid superacid, S(2)O(8)(2-)/ZrO(2)-SiO(2)-Sm(2)O(3), could be used as a substitute for homogenous acid to catalyze the production of LA from SERS and LA yield increased with the addition of solid superacid. It was also found that steam explosion combined with superfine grinding of rice straw could effectively increase LA yield for reducing particle size of rice straw and enhancing the accessibility of cellulose. Under optimal conditions of 200°C, 10 min, 13.3% of solid superacid to pretreated rice straw, and 1:15 of solid-liquid ratio, LA yield of the superfine grinding SERS was 70% of the theoretical yield, which was equivalent with the homogeneous acid-catalyzed production of LA.
21036669	The regulation of gene expression involves a multifarious regulatory system. Each gene contains a unique combination of cis-acting regulatory sequence elements in the 5' regulatory region that determines its temporal and spatial expression. Cis-acting regulatory elements are essential transcriptional gene regulatory units; they control many biological processes and stress responses. Thus a full understanding of the transcriptional gene regulation system will depend on successful functional analyses of cis-acting elements. Cis-acting regulatory elements present within the 5' regulatory region of the sucrose transporter gene families in rice (Oryza sativa Japonica cultivar-group) and Arabidopsis thaliana, were identified using a bioinformatics approach. The possible cis-acting regulatory elements were predicted by scanning 1.5kbp of 5' regulatory regions of the sucrose transporter genes translational start sites, using Plant CARE, PLACE and Genomatix Matinspector professional databases. Several cis-acting regulatory elements that are associated with plant development, plant hormonal regulation and stress response were identified, and were present in varying frequencies within the 1.5kbp of 5' regulatory region, among which are; A-box, RY, CAT, Pyrimidine-box, Sucrose-box, ABRE, ARF, ERE, GARE, Me-JA, ARE, DRE, GA-motif, GATA, GT-1, MYC, MYB, W-box, and I-box. This result reveals the probable cis-acting regulatory elements that possibly are involved in the expression and regulation of sucrose transporter gene families in rice and Arabidopsis thaliana during cellular development or environmental stress conditions.
21038434	Organelle proteomics describes the study of proteins present in organelle at a particular instance during the whole period of their life cycle in a cell. Organelles are specialized membrane bound structures within a cell that function by interacting with cytosolic and luminal soluble proteins making the protein composition of each organelle dynamic. Depending on organism, the total number of organelles within a cell varies, indicating their evolution with respect to protein number and function. For example, one of the striking differences between plant and animal cells is the plastids in plants. Organelles have their own proteins, and few organelles like mitochondria and chloroplast have their own genome to synthesize proteins for specific function and also require nuclear-encoded proteins. Enormous work has been performed on animal organelle proteomics. However, plant organelle proteomics has seen limited work mainly due to: (i) inter-plant and inter-tissue complexity, (ii) difficulties in isolation of subcellular compartments, and (iii) their enrichment and purity. Despite these concerns, the field of organelle proteomics is growing in plants, such as Arabidopsis, rice and maize. The available data are beginning to help better understand organelles and their distinct and/or overlapping functions in different plant tissues, organs or cell types, and more importantly, how protein components of organelles behave during development and with surrounding environments. Studies on organelles have provided a few good reviews, but none of them are comprehensive. Here, we present a comprehensive review on plant organelle proteomics starting from the significance of organelle in cells, to organelle isolation, to protein identification and to biology and beyond. To put together such a systematic, in-depth review and to translate acquired knowledge in a proper and adequate form, we join minds to provide discussion and viewpoints on the collaborative nature of organelles in cell, their proper function and evolution.
21039459	To facilitate genetic research, we constructed two linkage maps by employing two F₂ populations derived from rice inter-subspecific crosses, japonica Tainung 67 (TNG67)/indica Taichung Sen 10 (TCS10) and japonica TNG67/indica Taichung Sen 17 (TCS17). We established linkage map lengths of 1481.6 cM and 1267.4 cM with average intervals of 13.8 cM and 14.4 cM by using 107 and 88 PCR markers for coverage of 88% of the rice genome in TNG67/TCS10 and TNG67/TCS17, respectively. The discrepancy in genetic maps in the two populations could be due to different cross combinations, crossing-over events, progeny numbers and/or markers. The most plausible explanation was segregation distortion; 18 markers (16.8%) distributed at nine regions of seven chromosomes and 10 markers (11.4%) at four regions of four chromosomes displayed severe segregation distortion (p < 0.01)in TNG67/TCS10 and TNG67/TCS17, respectively. All segregation-distorted markers in these two populations corresponded to reported reproductive barriers, either gametophytic or zygotic genes but not to hybrid breakdown genes. The observed recombination frequency, which was higher or lower than the intrinsic frequency, revealed the association of segregation distortion skewed to the same or different genotypes at the consecutive markers. The segregation distortion, possibly caused by reproductive barriers, affects the evaluation recombination frequencies and consequently the linkage analysis of QTLs and positional cloning.
21039565	• Gas spaces (aerenchyma) form as an adaptation to submergence to facilitate gas exchange. In rice (Oryza sativa), aerenchyma develop by cell death and lysis, which are poorly understood at the cellular level. • Aerenchyma formation was studied in rice stems by light microscopy. It was analyzed in response to submergence, ethylene and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) treatment, and in the MT2b::Tos17 mutant. O(2)·(-) was detected with nitroblue tetrazolium and an epinephrine assay. H(2)O(2) was detected with 3,3'-diaminobenzidine. • Aerenchyma develop constitutively in all internodes of the deep-water rice variety Pin Gaew 56, but are absent from the nodes. Constitutive aerenchyma formation was also observed in two lowland rice varieties, albeit to a lesser degree. A larger number of aerenchyma are present in older internodes, and at the top of each internode, revealing developmental gradients. Submergence or treatment with the ethylene-releasing compound ethephon promoted aerenchyma formation in all genotypes analyzed. Pre-aerenchymal cells contain less starch, no chloroplasts, thinner cell walls and produce elevated levels of O(2)·(-) and H(2)O(2) compared with other parenchymal cells. Ethephon promotes O(2)·(-) formation and H(2)O(2) promotes aerenchyma formation in a dose-dependent manner. Further-more, genetic downregulation of the H(2)O(2) scavenger MT2b enhances aerenchyma formation. • Aerenchyma formation is mediated by reactive oxygen species.
21039568	• A rice mutant, Oryza sativa short postembryonic roots 1 (Osspr1), has been characterized. It has short postembryonic roots, including adventitious and lateral roots, and a lower iron content in its leaves. • OsSPR1 was identified by map-based cloning. It encodes a novel mitochondrial protein with the Armadillo-like repeat domain. • Osspr1 mutants exhibited decreased root cell elongation. The iron content of the mutant shoots was significantly altered compared with that of wild-type shoots. A similar pattern of alteration of manganese and zinc concentrations in shoots was also observed. Complementation of the mutant confirmed that OsSPR1 is involved in post-embryonic root elongation and iron homeostasis in rice. OsSPR1 was found to be ubiquitously expressed in various tissues throughout the plant. The transcript abundance of various genes involved in iron uptake and signaling via both strategies I and II was similar in roots of wild-type and mutant plants, but was higher in the leaves of mutant plants. • Thus, a novel mitochondrial protein that is involved in root elongation and plays a role in metal ion homeostasis has been identified.
21039666	The primary objective of this study was to determine the effects of quorum quenching in the pathogenicity and toxoflavin production of Burkholderia glumae causing bacterial rice grain rot. An acyl-homoserine lactonase (aiiA) gene from Bacillus sp. was expressed in B. glumae under the control of a constitutive promoter. Acyl-homoserine lactone production in the aiiA-transformants was reduced significantly, and the aiiA-expressing B. glumae strain reduced the severity of soft rot when the strain was co-inoculated with a soft-rot pathogen, Pectobacterium carotovorum ssp. carotovorum SCCI. However, the aiiA-transformant still caused rice seedling rot and rice grain rot. The aiiA-expressing strains had wild-type levels of transcription from the genes in the toxoflavin biosynthetic operon, and as well as wild-type levels of toxin production. Our results show that aiiA-mediated quorum quenching does not affect virulence or toxoflavin production in B. glumae. Indirect quorum quenching may prove an ineffective approach to the control of rice grain rot, because it reduces, but does not eliminate entirely homoserine lactones in B. glumae. Virulence of rice grain rot was retained despite reduction in homoserine lactones by the expression of aiiA in B. glumae.
21040387	Rice stripe virus (RSV) has a serious negative effect on rice production in temperate regions of East Asia. Focusing on the putative importance of the selection of target sequences for RNA interference (RNAi), we analysed the effects of potential target sequences in each of the coding genes in the RSV genome, using transgenic rice plants that expressed a set of inverted-repeat (IR) constructs. The reactions of inoculated transgenic T(1) plants to RSV were divided subjectively into three classes, namely highly resistant, moderately resistant and lacking enhanced resistance to RSV, even though plants that harboured any constructs accumulated transgene-specific siRNAs prior to inoculation with RSV. Transgenic plants that harboured IR constructs specific for the gene for pC3, which encodes nucleocapsid protein, and for pC4, which encodes a viral movement protein, were immune to infection by RSV and were more resistant to infection than the natural resistant cultivars that have been used to control the disease in the field. By contrast, the IR construct specific for the gene for pC2, which encodes a glycoprotein of unknown function, and for p4, which encodes a major non-structural protein of unknown function, did not result in resistance. Our results indicate that not all RNAi constructs against viral RNAs are equally effective in preventing RSV infection and that it is important to identify the viral 'Achilles heel' for RNAi attack in the engineering of plants.
21040388	Besides the intended effects that give a genetically modified (GM) plant the desired trait, unintended differences between GM and non-GM comparable plants may also occur. Profiling technologies allow their identification, and a number of examples demonstrating that unintended effects are limited and diverse have recently been reported. Both from the food safety aspect and for research purposes, it is important to discern unintended changes produced by the transgene and its expression from those that may be attributed to other factors. Here, we show differential expression of around 0.40% transcriptome between conventional rice var. Senia and Senia-afp constitutively expressing the AFP antifungal protein. Analysis of one-fifth of the regulated sequences showed that around 35% of the unintended effects could be attributed to the process used to produce GM plants, based on in vitro tissue culture techniques. A further ∼15% were event specific, and their regulation was attributed to host gene disruption and genome rearrangements at the insertion site, and effects on proximal sequences. Thus, only around half the transcriptional unintended effects could be associated to the transgene itself. A significant number of changes in Senia-afp and Senia are part of the plant response to stress conditions, and around half the sequences for which up-regulation was attributed to the transgene were induced in conventional (but not transgenic) plants after wounding. Unintended effects might, as such, putatively result in widening the self-resistance characteristics because of the transgene in GM plants.
21040590	The rice blast disease caused by Magnaporthe oryzae is a major constraint on world rice production. The conidia produced by this fungal pathogen are the main source of disease dissemination. The morphology of conidia may be a critical factor in the spore dispersal and virulence of M. oryzae in the field. Deletion of a conidial morphology regulating gene encoding putative transcriptional regulator COM1 in M. oryzae resulted in aberrant conidial shape, reduced conidiation and attenuated virulence. In this study, a two-dimensional gel electrophoresis/matrix assisted laser desorption ionization- time of flight mass spectrometry (2-DE/MALDI-TOF MS) based proteomics approach was employed to identify the cellular and molecular components regulated by the COM1 protein (COM1p) that might contribute to the aberrant phenotypes in M. oryzae. By comparing the conidial proteomes of COM1 deletion mutant and its isogenic wild-type strain P131, we identified a potpourri of 31 proteins that exhibited statistically significant alterations in their abundance levels. Of these differentially regulated proteins, the abundance levels of nine proteins were elevated and twelve were reduced in the Δcom1 mutant. Three proteins were detected only in the Δcom1 conidial proteome, whereas seven proteins were apparently undetectable. The data obtained in the study suggest that the COM1p plays a key role in transcriptional reprogramming of genes implicated in melanin biosynthesis, carbon and energy metabolism, structural organization of cell, lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, etc. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed the down-regulation of genes encoding enzymes involved in melanin biosynthesis in the COM1 mutant. Our results suggest that the COM1p may regulate the transcription of genes involved in various cellular processes indispensable for conidial development and appressorial penetration. These functions are likely to contribute to the effects of COM1p upon the aberrant phenotypes of M. oryzae.
21041675	Curcuminoid synthase (CUS) from Oryza sativa is a plant-specific type III polyketide synthase (PKS) that catalyzes the remarkable one-pot formation of the C(6)-C(7)-C(6) diarylheptanoid scaffold of bisdemethoxycurcumin, by the condensation of two molecules of 4-coumaroyl-CoA and one molecule of malonyl-CoA. The crystal structure of O. sativa CUS was solved at 2.5-Å resolution, which revealed a unique, downward expanding active-site architecture, previously unidentified in the known type III PKSs. The large active-site cavity is long enough to accommodate the two C(6)-C(3) coumaroyl units and one malonyl unit. Furthermore, the crystal structure indicated the presence of a putative nucleophilic water molecule, which forms hydrogen bond networks with Ser351-Asn142-H(2)O-Tyr207-Glu202, neighboring the catalytic Cys174 at the active-site center. These observations suggest that CUS employs unique catalytic machinery for the one-pot formation of the C(6)-C(7)-C(6) scaffold. Thus, CUS utilizes the nucleophilic water to terminate the initial polyketide chain elongation at the diketide stage. Thioester bond cleavage of the enzyme-bound intermediate generates 4-coumaroyldiketide acid, which is then kept within the downward expanding pocket for subsequent decarboxylative condensation with the second 4-coumaroyl-CoA starter, to produce bisdemethoxycurcumin. The structure-based site-directed mutants, M265L and G274F, altered the substrate and product specificities to accept 4-hydroxyphenylpropionyl-CoA as the starter to produce tetrahydrobisdemethoxycurcumin. These findings not only provide a structural basis for the catalytic machinery of CUS but also suggest further strategies toward expanding the biosynthetic repertoire of the type III PKS enzymes.
21041976	Mlo is a plant-specific gene family, which is known to show stress responses in various plants. To reveal the genetic characteristics of the Mlo family in wheat, we isolated wheat Mlo members from a database and studied their expression in young shoots and roots under salt and osmotic stress conditions. In an in silico investigation, we identified seven Mlo members in wheat and named them TaMlo-1~TaMlo-7. None of the wheat Mlo showed significant induction or reduction of their expression under salt or osmotic stress, but organ-specific expression was observed in several TaMlo members. TaMlo-1, TaMlo-2, and TaMlo-5 were constitutively expressed in both shoots and roots, but TaMlo-3 and TaMlo-4 showed root-specific expression, and TaMlo-7 showed dominant expression in shoots. TaMlo-6 was weakly expressed in both shoots and roots. Phylogenetic analysis classified the plant Mlo members into six classes; four of them were comprised of angiosperm Mlo members, and the remaining two consisted of fern and moss Mlo members. The seven wheat Mlo members were classified into four angiosperm Mlo classes, similar to those of Arabidopsis and rice, indicating that the formation of each of the Mlo classes preceded the divergence of dicots and monocots. The differentiation of the expressional patterns among the seven TaMlo members was not related to their phylogenetic classification. This result suggested that the organ specific expression of individual Mlo members occurred relatively recently in their evolution.
2104199	Green rice plants were regenerated from protoplasts, which were derived from cell suspension of Oryza sativa L. cut. Zhonghua No. 8, a super Chinese rice cultivar with high productivity, good quality and high resistance to both bacterial blight and blast. The embryogenic calli were initiated from mature embroys. It took about 4 months to establish the cell suspenion. The regeneration plants from protoplasts were obtained in 2 months after the isolation of protoplasts.
21043109	A field experiment was conducted to study the dynamics of dissolved organic carbon (DOC), readily oxidizable organic carbon (ROC), and microbial biomass carbon (MBC) in a paddy soil under integrated rice-duck farming (RD), intermittent irrigation (RW), and conventional flooded irrigation (CK), the three rice farming modes typical in southern China. Under these three farming modes, the soil DOC and MBC contents reached the highest during the period from rice booting to heading, while the soil ROC content had less change during the whole rice growth period. Two-factor variance analysis showed that soil MBC was greatly affected by rice growth stage, soil DOC was greatly affected by rice growth stage and farming mode, and soil ROC was mainly affected by farming mode. Comparing with CK, RD significantly increased the soil DOC and ROC contents and their availability, while RW significantly decreased the soil DOC content and its availability but increased the soil ROC content and its availability. No significant differences were observed in the soil MBC and microbial quotient among RD, RW, and CK.
21043130	Taking the China rice/wheat FACE (Free-Air Carbon Dioxide Enrichment) as a platform, this paper studied the effects of elevated CO2 on the NH4(+)-N and NO3(-)-N contents at different depths of paddy soil in rice season. Under elevated CO2, the NH4(+)-N content in plough layer increased at early growth stage but decreased at late growth stage, and the soil NO3(-)-N content at the depths 5, 15, 30, 60, and 90 cm increased by 46.5%, 36.8%, 23.3%, 103.7%, and 42.7%, respectively, with a significant increase occurred at the depths 60 cm (P < 0.01) and 90 cm (P < 0.05), compared with the control.
21043519	Groundwater rich in arsenic (As) is extensively used for dry season boro rice cultivation in Bangladesh, leading to long-term As accumulation in soils. This may result in increasing levels of As in rice straw and grain, and eventually, in decreasing rice yields due to As phytotoxicity. In this study, we investigated the As contents of rice straw and grain over three consecutive harvest seasons (2005-2007) in a paddy field in Munshiganj, Bangladesh, which exhibits a documented gradient in soil As caused by annual irrigation with As-rich groundwater since the early 1990s. The field data revealed that straw and grain As concentrations were elevated in the field and highest near the irrigation water inlet, where As concentrations in both soil and irrigation water were highest. Additionally, a pot experiment with soils and rice seeds from the field site was carried out in which soil and irrigation water As were varied in a full factorial design. The results suggested that both soil As accumulated in previous years and As freshly introduced with irrigation water influence As uptake during rice growth. At similar soil As contents, plants grown in pots exhibited similar grain and straw As contents as plants grown in the field. This suggested that the results from pot experiments performed at higher soil As levels can be used to assess the effect of continuing soil As accumulation on As content and yield of rice. On the basis of a recently published scenario of long-term As accumulation at the study site, we estimate that, under unchanged irrigation practice, average grain As concentrations will increase from currently ∼0.15 mg As kg(-1) to 0.25-0.58 mg As kg(-1) by the year 2050. This translates to a 1.5-3.8 times higher As intake by the local population via rice, possibly exceeding the provisional tolerable As intake value defined by FAO/WHO.
21043574	Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi stimulate root development and induce expression of mycorrhization-specific genes in both eudicots and monocots. Diffusible factors released by AM fungi have been shown to elicit similar responses in Medicago truncatula. Colonization of roots by AM fungi is inhibited by ethylene. We compared the effects of germinating spore exudates (GSE) from Glomus intraradices in monocots and in eudicots, their genetic control, and their regulation by ethylene. GSE modify root architecture and induce symbiotic gene expression in both monocots and eudicots. The genetic regulation of root architecture and gene expression was analyzed using M. truncatula and rice symbiotic mutants. These responses are dependent on the common symbiotic pathway as well as another uncharacterized pathway. Significant differences between monocots and eudicots were observed in the genetic control of plant responses to GSE. However, ethylene inhibits GSE-induced symbiotic gene expression and root development in both groups. Our results indicate that GSE signaling shares similarities and differences in monocots versus eudicots, that only a subset of AM signaling pathways has been co-opted in legumes for the establishment of root nodulation with rhizobia, and that regulation of these pathways by ethylene is a feature conserved across higher land plants.
21043575	The biological role of a secretory catalase of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae was studied. The internal amino acid sequences of the partially purified catalase in the culture filtrate enabled us to identify its encoding gene as a catalase-peroxidase gene, CPXB, among four putative genes for catalase or catalase-peroxidase in M. oryzae. Knockout of the gene drastically reduced the level of catalase activity in the culture filtrate and supernatant of conidial suspension (SCS), and increased the sensitivity to exogenously added H₂O₂ compared with control strains, suggesting that CPXB is the major gene encoding the secretory catalase and confers resistance to H₂O₂ in hyphae. In the mutant, the rate of appressoria that induced accumulation of H₂O₂ in epidermal cells of the leaf sheath increased and infection at early stages was delayed; however, the formation of lesions in the leaf blade was not affected compared with the control strain. These phenotypes were complimented by reintroducing the putative coding regions of CPXB driven by a constitutive promoter. These results suggest that CPXB plays a role in fungal defense against H₂O₂ accumulated in epidermal cells of rice at the early stage of infection but not in pathogenicity of M. oryzae.
21044838	A method for thermal conversion of raw organic waste (ROW) to a compost-like material (CLM) with higher levels of unsaturated carbohydrates, nitrogen- and oxygen-containing compounds was developed, in which rice bran and an organo-iron compound were employed as a model ROW and the accelerator, respectively. To evaluate the qualities of CLMs, organic substances of an acid insoluble fraction of alkaline extracts (AIAEs) from a CLM were structurally characterized by elemental analysis, pyrolysis-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry and FT-IR. The levels of unsaturated carbohydrates, and nitrogen- and oxygen-containing compounds in the CLM samples were increased by long-term treatment (60°C for 5 days, 170°C for 3 days). In particular, the high lipid content of the AIAEs, which was indicative of inadequate digestion of CLM components, was dramatically reduced in the presence of the accelerator.
21044853	In electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) distance distributions between site-directedly attached spin labels in soft matter are obtained by measuring their dipole-dipole interaction. The analysis of these distance distributions can be misleading particularly for broad distributions, because the most probable distance deviates from the distance between the most probable label positions. The current manuscript studies this effect using numerically generated spin label positions, molecular dynamics simulations, and experimental data of a model system. An approach involving Rice distributions is proposed to overcome this problem.
21044985	Glutaredoxins (GRXs) are glutathione-dependent oxidoreductase enzymes involved in a variety of cellular processes. In this study, our analysis revealed the presence of 48 genes encoding GRX proteins in the rice genome. GRX proteins could be classified into four classes, namely CC-, CGFS-, CPYC- and GRL-type, based on phylogenetic analysis. The classification was supported with organization of predicted conserved putative motifs in GRX proteins. We found that expansion of this gene family has occurred largely via whole genome duplication events in a species-specific manner. We explored rice oligonucleotide array data to gain insights into the function of GRX gene family members during various stages of development and in response to environmental stimuli. The comprehensive expression analysis suggested diverse roles of GRX genes during growth and development in rice. Some of the GRX genes were expressed in specific organs/developmental stages only. The expression of many of rice GRX genes was influenced by various phytohormones, abiotic and biotic stress conditions, suggesting an important role of GRX proteins in response to these stimuli. The identification of GRX genes showing differential expression in specific tissues or in response to environmental stimuli provide a new avenue for in-depth characterization of selected genes of importance.
21045061	Elucidating the function of all predicted genes in rice remains as the ultimate goal in cereal genomics in order to ensure the development of improved varieties that will sustain an expanding world population. We constructed a gene expression database (RiceXPro, URL: http://ricexpro.dna.affrc.go.jp/) to provide an overview of the transcriptional changes throughout the growth of the rice plant in the field. RiceXPro contains two data sets corresponding to spatiotemporal gene expression profiles of various organs and tissues, and continuous gene expression profiles of leaf from transplanting to harvesting. A user-friendly web interface enables the extraction of specific gene expression profiles by keyword and chromosome search, and basic data analysis, thereby providing useful information as to the organ/tissue and developmental stage specificity of expression of a particular gene. Analysis tools such as t-test, calculation of fold change and degree of correlation facilitate the comparison of expression profiles between two random samples and the prediction of function of uncharacterized genes. As a repository of expression data encompassing growth in the field, this database can provide baseline information of genes that underlie various agronomically important traits in rice.
21045556	The cellular localization and molecular interactions are indicative of functions of a protein. The development of a simple and efficient method for subcellular localization of a protein is indispensable to elucidate gene function in plants. In this study, we assessed the feasibility of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation (agroinfiltration) of tobacco and tomato leaf tissue to follow intracellular targeting of proteins from rice fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). For this, a simple in planta assay for subcellular localization of rice proteins in the heterologous host systems of tobacco and tomato leaf via transient transformation was developed. We have tested the applicability of this method by expressing GFP fusions of the putative antiphagocytic protein 1 (APP1) (OsAPP, LOC_Os03g56930) and ZOS3-18 - C2H2 zinc-finger protein (OsZF1, LOC_Os03g55540) from Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica in tobacco and tomato leaf tissues. Our results demonstrate the suitability of GFP as a reporter in gene expression studies in tomato cv MicroTom. The use of GFP-fused proteins from rice for subcellular targeting in the heterologous hosts of tobacco and tomato plant systems has been confirmed.
21046066	Fragrance in soybean is due to the presence of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP). BADH2 gene coding for betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase has been identified as the candidate gene responsible for fragrance in rice (Oryza sativa L.). In this study, using the RIL population derived from fragrant soybean cultivar "Kaori" and non-fragrant soybean cultivar "Chiang Mai 60" (CM60), STS markers designed from BADH2 homolog were found associating with 2AP production. Genetic mapping demonstrated that QTL position of fragrance and 2AP production coincides with the position of GmBADH2 (Glycine max betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 2). Sequence comparison of GmBADH2 between Kaori and non-fragrant soybeans revealed non-synonymous single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in exon 10. Nucleotide substitution of G to A in the exon results in an amino acid change of glycine (GGC; G) to aspartic acid (GAC; D) in Kaori. The amino acid substitution changes the conserved EGCRLGPIVS motif of GmBADH2, which is essential for functional activity of GmBADH2 protein, to EGCRLDPIVS motif, suggesting that the SNP in GmBADH2 is responsible for the fragrance in Kaori. Five single nucleotide-amplified polymorphism (SNAP) markers which are PCR-based allele specific SNP markers were developed for fragrance based on the SNP in GmBADH2. Two markers specific to A allele produced a band in only Kaori, while three markers specific to G alleles produced a band in only CM60. The simple PCR-based allele specific SNAP markers developed in the present study are useful in marker-assisted breeding of fragrant soybean.
21046317	Despite the importance of quantitative disease resistance during a plant's life, little is known about the molecular basis of this type of host-pathogen interaction, because most of the genes underlying resistance quantitative trait loci (QTLs) are unknown. To identify genes contributing to resistance QTLs in rice, we analyzed the colocalization of a set of characterized rice defense-responsive genes and resistance QTLs against different pathogens. We also examined the expression patterns of these genes in response to pathogen infection in the parents of the mapping populations, based on the strategy of validation and functional analysis of the QTLs. The results suggest that defense-responsive genes are important resources of resistance QTLs in rice. OsWRKY45-1 is the gene contributing to a major resistance QTL. NRR, OsGH3-1, and OsGLP members on chromosome 8 contribute alone or collectively to different minor resistance QTLs. These genes function in a basal resistance pathway or in major disease resistance gene-mediated race-specific pathways.
21046389	To genome-widely mine pathogenesis-related genes of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc), which is the casual agent of bacterial leaf streak resulting in significant yield loss and poor quality in rice, a Tn5 transposon-mediated mutation library was generated. Twenty-five thousand transformants were produced by using Tn5 transposome, appropriately corresponding to 5 × ORF coverage of the genome, and inoculated into rice and tobacco, individually and respectively, for screening candidate virulence genes. Southern blot and thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction analysis of Tn5 insertion sites of randomly selected mutants suggested a random mode of transposition and a saturation library. Characterization of extracellular polysaccharides, extracellular protease activity, and pigment production of individual mutants in the growth media revealed that 11 mutants enhanced in growth, 12 reduced extracellular polysaccharide production, 12 lost extracellular protease activity completely or partially, and 21 were pigment deficient. In planta pathogenicity assays revealed 253 mutants reduced virulence in rice, but kept triggering hypersensitive response in tobacco; 49 lost the ability to elicit HR in tobacco and pathogenicity in rice; and 3 still induced hypersensitive response in tobacco, but lost pathogenicity in rice. The achieved mutant library of Xoc is of high-quality and nearly saturated and candidate virulence mutants provided a strong basis for functional genomics of Xoc.
21046997	A field experiment was conducted for two years on a sandy loam (Typic Ustochrept) soil of Punjab to study the effect of organic materials and rice cultivars on methane emission from rice fields. The methane flux varied between 0.04 and 0.93 mg m(-2) hr(-1) in bare soil and transplanting of rice crop doubled the methane flux (0.07 to 2.06 mg m(-2) hr(-1)). Among rice cultivars, significantly (p < 0.05) higher amount of methane was emitted from Pusa 44 compared to PR 118 and PR 111. Application of organic materials enhanced methane emission from rice fields and resulted in increased soil organic carbon content. The greatest seasonal methane flux was observed in wheat straw amended plots (229.6 kg ha(-1)) followed by farmyard manure (111.6 kg ha(-1)), green manure (85.4 kg ha(-1)) and the least from rice straw compost amended plots (36.9 kg ha(-1)) as compared to control (21.5 kg ha(-1)). The differential effect of organic materials in enhancing methane flux was related to total carbon or C:N ratio of the material. The results showed that incorporation of humified organic matter such as rice straw compost could minimize methane emission from rice fields with co-benefits of increased soil fertility and crop productivity.
21047814	We identified two phenylquinazoline compounds in a large-scale screening for cytokinin antagonists in yeast expressing the Arabidopsis cytokinin receptor cytokinin response 1/histidine kinase 4 (CRE1). After chemical modifications, we obtained compound S-4893, which non-competitively inhibited binding of the natural ligand 2-isopentenyladenine to CRE1. S-4893 antagonized cytokinin-induced activation of the Arabidopsis response regulator 5 promoter in Arabidopsis. Importantly, S-4893 had no detectable intrinsic cytokinin agonist activity in Arabidopsis or in the transformed yeast system. Cytokinin bioassay further demonstrated that S-4893 antagonized cytokinin-induced stimulation of callus formation and inhibition of root elongation. S-4893 also promoted seminal, crown and lateral root growth in rice, suggesting that S-4893 could potentially promote root growth in a variety of agronomically important plants. We believe S-4893 will be a useful tool in functional studies of cytokinin action in a wide range of plants and a lead compound for the development of useful root growth promoters in agriculture.
21047815	Genomic analysis predicted that the rice (Oryza sativa var. japonica) genome encodes at least 41 kinesin-like proteins including the novel kinesin O12, which is classified as a kinesin-14 family member. O12 has a calponin homology (CH) domain that is known as an actin-binding domain. In this study, we expressed the functional domains of O12 in Escherichia coli and determined its enzymatic characteristics compared with other kinesins. The microtubule-dependent ATPase activity of recombinant O12 containing the motor and CH domains was significantly reduced in the presence of actin. Interestingly, microtubule-dependent ATPase activity of the motor domain was also affected by actin in the absence of the CH domain. Our findings suggest that the motor activity of the rice plant-specific kinesin O12 may be regulated by actin.
21047983	Genes that enable crops to limit Na(+) accumulation in shoot tissues represent potential sources of salinity tolerance for breeding. In barley, the HvNax4 locus lowered shoot Na(+) content by between 12% and 59% (g(-1) DW), or not at all, depending on the growth conditions in hydroponics and a range of soil types, indicating a strong influence of environment on expression. HvNax4 was fine-mapped on the long arm of barley chromosome 1H. Corresponding intervals of ∼200 kb, containing a total of 34 predicted genes, were defined in the sequenced rice and Brachypodium genomes. HvCBL4, a close barley homologue of the SOS3 salinity tolerance gene of Arabidopsis, co-segregated with HvNax4. No difference in HvCBL4 mRNA expression was detected between the mapping parents. However, genomic and cDNA sequences of the HvCBL4 alleles were obtained, revealing a single Ala111Thr amino acid substitution difference in the encoded proteins. The known crystal structure of SOS3 was used as a template to obtain molecular models of the barley proteins, resulting in structures very similar to that of SOS3. The position in SOS3 corresponding to the barley substitution does not participate directly in Ca(2+) binding, post-translational modifications or interaction with the SOS2 signalling partner. However, Thr111 but not Ala111 forms a predicted hydrogen bond with a neighbouring α-helix, which has potential implications for the overall structure and function of the barley protein. HvCBL4 therefore represents a candidate for HvNax4 that warrants further investigation.
21048083	Genetic incompatibility is a barrier contributing to species isolation and is caused by genetic interactions. We made a whole genome survey of two-way interacting loci acting within the gametophyte or zygote using independence tests of marker segregations in an F(2) population from an intersubspecific cross between O. sativa subspecies indica and japonica. We detected only one reproducible interaction, and identified paralogous hybrid incompatibility genes, DOPPELGANGER1 (DPL1) and DOPPELGANGER2 (DPL2), by positional cloning. Independent disruptions of DPL1 and DPL2 occurred in indica and japonica, respectively. DPLs encode highly conserved, plant-specific small proteins (∼10 kDa) and are highly expressed in mature anther. Pollen carrying two defective DPL alleles became nonfunctional and did not germinate, suggesting an essential role for DPLs in pollen germination. Although rice has many duplicated genes resulting from ancient whole genome duplication, the origin of this gene duplication was in recent small-scale gene duplication, occurring after Oryza-Brachypodium differentiation. Comparative analyses suggested the geographic and phylogenetic distribution of these two defective alleles, showing that loss-of-function mutations of DPL1 genes emerged multiple times in indica and its wild ancestor, O. rufipogon, and that the DPL2 gene defect is specific to japonica cultivars.
21049161	This study aimed to analyze the self-reported eating practices of pregnant and postpartum women living in a group of slum communities in the city of Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. The interpretative methodology used a semi-structured interview and thematic content analysis. The sample (n=26) consisted of 18 pregnant and 8 postpartum women, of whom 7 were adolescents and 19 adults, including both primiparous and multiparous subjects. According to these women, eating while watching television, eating out, and eating with relatives and friends on weekends were forms of associating leisure-time activities with food, thus increasing their pleasure in eating. Income was identified as the principal obstacle to consuming healthier foods, which were reserved for their children as a priority. Thus, milk, vegetables, greens, and fruit were rarely consumed. Their diet consisted mainly of rice, beans and chicken. There was a clear preference for "junk food". The women were limited to a monotonous diet. It is important to understand and value socio-cultural and economic issues that influence eating practices in order for food and nutritional orientation aimed at healthy eating to be negotiated and adjusted to pregnant women's objective and subjective needs.
2105082	The reactions of 2-fluoro- and 3-fluoro-L-tyrosine with mushroom tyrosinase have been investigated. Both fluorinated tyrosines are good substrates for tyrosinase, with Vmax and Vmax/Km values similar to those for L-tyrosine. Oxygenation of 2-fluorotyrosine is regioselective, and only 6-fluorodopa was detected by HPLC in reaction mixtures. Oxygenation of both isomers of monofluorotyrosine results in fluoride ion production in the absence of ascorbic acid; however, 2-fluorotyrosine also produces fluoride in the presence of ascorbic acid. These results are consistent with previous studies demonstrating rapid intramolecular cyclization of nascent 6-fluorodopaquinone (M.E. Rice, B. Moghaddan, C.R. Creveling, and K.L. Kirk, 1987, Anal. Chem. 59, 1534-1538), which is competitive with reduction by ascorbate, resulting in elimination of the aromatic fluorine as fluoride ion.
21051005	White rice-based foods, which are high in refined carbohydrates, are widely consumed in China. A case-control study was conducted to investigate the association between white rice-based food consumption and the risk of ischemic stroke in the southern Chinese population. Information on diet and lifestyle was obtained from 374 incident ischemic stroke patients and 464 hospital-based controls. Logistic regression analyses were performed to assess the effects of rice-based foods on stroke risk. The mean weekly intake of rice foods appeared to be significantly higher in cases than in controls. Increased consumptions of cooked rice, congee, and rice noodle were associated with a higher risk for ischemic stroke after controlling for confounding factors. The corresponding adjusted odds ratios (with 95% confidence intervals) for the highest versus lowest intake level were 2.73 (1.31-5.69), 2.93 (1.68-5.13), and 2.03 (1.40-2.94), with significant dose-response relationships observed. The results provide evidence of a positive association between habitual rice food consumption and the risk of ischemic stroke in Chinese adults.
21051443	The AGC kinase OsOxi1, which has been isolated as an interactor with OsPti1a, positively regulates basal disease resistance in rice. In eukaryotes, AGC kinase family proteins are regulated by 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (Pdk1). In Arabidopsis, AtPdk1 directly interacts with phosphatidic acid, which functions as a second messenger in both biotic and abiotic stress responses. However, the functions of Pdk1 are poorly understood in plants. We show here that OsPdk1 acts upstream of the OsOxi1-OsPti1a signal cascade in disease resistance in rice. OsPdk1 interacts with OsOxi1 and phosphorylates the Ser283 residue of OsOxi1 in vitro. To investigate whether OsPdk1 is involved in immunity that is triggered by microbial-associated molecular patterns, we analyzed the phosphorylation status of OsPdk1 in response to chitin elicitor. Like OsOxi1, OsPdk1 is rapidly phosphorylated in response to chitin elicitor, suggesting that OsPdk1 participates in signal transduction through pathogen recognition. The overexpression of OsPdk1 enhanced basal resistance against a blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, and a bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Taken together, these results suggest that OsPdk1 positively regulates basal disease resistance through the OsOxi1-OsPti1a phosphorylation cascade in rice.
21051936	Gamete fusion activates the egg in animals and plants, and the gamete fusion site on the zygote might provide a possible cue for zygotic development and/or embryonic patterning. In angiosperms, a zygote generally divides into a two-celled proembryo consisting of an apical and a basal cell with different cell fates. This is a putative step in the formation of the apical-basal axis of the proembryo. We observed the positional relationship between the gamete fusion site and the division plane formed by zygotic cleavage using an in vitro fertilization system with rice gametes. There was no relationship between the gamete fusion site and the division plane leading to the two-celled proembryo. Thus, the gamete fusion site on the rice zygote does not appear to function as a determinant for positioning the zygote division plane, and the zygote apparently possesses autonomous potential to establish cell polarity along the apical-basal axis for its first cleavage.
21051956	We recently reported that the cwa1 mutation disturbed the deposition and assembly of secondary cell wall materials in the cortical fiber of rice internodes. Genetic analysis revealed that cwa1 is allelic to bc1, which encodes glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored COBRA-like protein with the highest homology to Arabidopsis COBRA-like 4 (COBL4) and maize Brittle Stalk 2 (Bk2). Our results suggested that CWA1/BC1 plays a role in assembling secondary cell wall materials at appropriate sites, enabling synthesis of highly ordered secondary cell wall structure with solid and flexible internodes in rice. The N-terminal amino acid sequence of CWA1/BC1, as well as its orthologs (COBL4, Bk2) and other BC1-like proteins in rice, shows weak similarity to a family II carbohydrate-binding module (CBM2) of several bacterial cellulases. To investigate the importance of the CBM-like sequence of CWA1/BC1 in the assembly of secondary cell wall materials, Trp residues in the CBM-like sequence, which is important for carbohydrate binding, were substituted for Val residues and introduced into the cwa1 mutant. CWA1/BC1 with the mutated sequence did not complement the abnormal secondary cell walls seen in the cwa1 mutant, indicating that the CBM-like sequence is essential for the proper function of CWA1/BC1, including assembly of secondary cell wall materials.
21052787	The cadmium (Cd) content of rice grain grown in metal-contaminated paddy soils near abandoned metal mines in South Korea was found to exceed safety guidelines (0.2 mg Cd kg⁻¹) set by the Korea Food and Drug Administration (KFDA). However, current remediation technologies for heavy metal-contaminated soils have limited application with respect to rice paddy soils. Laboratory and greenhouse experiments were conducted to assess the effects of amending contaminated rice paddy soils with zerovalent iron (ZVI), lime, humus, compost, and combinations of these compounds to immobilize Cd and inhibit Cd translocation to rice grain. Sequential extraction analysis revealed that treatment with the ameliorants induced a 50-90% decrease in the bioavailable Cd fractions when compared to the untreated control soil. When compared to the control, Cd uptake by rice was decreased in response to treatment with ZVI + humus (69%), lime (65%), ZVI + compost (61%), compost (46%), ZVI (42%), and humus (14%). In addition, ameliorants did not influence rice yield when compared to that of the control. Overall, the results of this study indicated that remediation technologies using ameliorants effectively reduce Cd bioavailability and uptake in contaminated rice paddy soils.
21052863	The effects of two biosurfactants, tea saponin (TS) and rhamnolipid (RL), on the production of laccase and the degradation of phenol by P. simplicissimum were investigated in solid-state fermentation consisting of rice straw, rice bran, and sawdust. Firstly, the effects of phenol on the fermentation process were studied in the absence of surfactants. Then, a phenol concentration of 3 mg/g in the fermentation was selected for detailed research with the addition of biosurfactants. The results showed that TS and RL at different concentrations had stimulative effects on the enzyme activity of laccase. The highest laccase activities during the fermentation were enhanced by 163.7%, 68.2%, and 23.3% by TS at concentrations of 0.02%, 0.06%, and 0.10%, respectively. As a result of the enhanced laccase activity, the efficiency of phenol degradation was also improved by both biosurfactants. RL caused a significant increase of fungal biomass in the early stage of the fermentation, while TS had an inhibitory effect in the whole process. These results indicated that RL could mitigate the negative effects of phenol on fungal growth and consequently improve laccase production and phenol degradation. TS was potentially applicable to phenol-polluted solid-state fermentation.
21054827	Although some epidemiologic studies found inverse associations between alcohol drinking and Parkinson's disease (PD), the majority of studies found no such significant associations. Additionally, there is only limited research into the possible interactions of alcohol intake with aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) 2 activity with respect to PD risk. We examined the relationship between alcohol intake and PD among Japanese subjects using data from a case-control study. From 214 cases within 6 years of PD onset and 327 controls without neurodegenerative disease, we collected information on "peak", as opposed to average, alcohol drinking frequency and peak drinking amounts during a subject's lifetime. Alcohol flushing status was evaluated via questions, as a means of detecting inactive ALHD2. The multivariate model included adjustments for sex, age, region of residence, smoking, years of education, body mass index, alcohol flushing status, presence of selected medication histories, and several dietary factors. Alcohol intake during peak drinking periods, regardless of frequency or amount, was not associated with PD. However, when we assessed daily ethanol intake separately for each type of alcohol, only Japanese sake (rice wine) was significantly associated with PD (adjusted odds ratio of ≥66.0 g ethanol per day: 3.39, 95% confidence interval: 1.10-11.0, P for trend = 0.001). There was no significant interaction of alcohol intake with flushing status in relation to PD risk. We did not find significant associations between alcohol intake and PD, except for the daily amount of Japanese sake. Effect modifications by alcohol flushing status were not observed.
21055780	OREB1 is a rice ABRE binding factor characterized by the presence of multiple highly-conserved phosphorylation domains (C1, C2, C3, and C4) and two kinase recognition motifs, RXXS/T and S/TXXE/D, within different functional domains. An in vitro kinase assay showed that OREB1 is phosphorylated not only by the SnRK2 kinase, but also by other Ser/Thr protein kinases, such as CaMKII, CKII, and SnRK3. Furthermore, the N-terminal phosphorylation domain C1 was found to be differentially phosphorylated by the SnRK2/SnRK3 kinase and by hyperosmotic/cold stress, suggesting that the C1 domain may function in decoding different signals. The phosphorylation-mediated regulation of OREB1 activity was investigated through mutation of the SnRK2 recognition motif RXXS/T within each phosphorylation module. OREB1 contains a crucial nine-amino acid transactivation domain located near the phosphorylation module C1. Deletion of the C1 domain increased OREB1 activity, whereas mutation of Ser 44, Ser 45, and Ser 48 of the C1 domain to aspartates decreased OREB1 activity. In the C2 domain, a double mutation of Ser 118 and Ser 120 to alanines suppressed OREB1 activity. These findings strongly suggest that selective phosphorylation of the C1 or C2 modules may positively or negatively regulate OREB1 transactivation. In addition, mutation of Ser 385 of the C4 domain to alanines completely abolished the interaction between OREB1 and a rice 14-3-3 protein, GF14d, suggesting that SnRK2-mediated phosphorylation may regulate this interaction. These results indicate that phosphorylation domains of OREB1 are not functionally redundant and regulate at least three different functions, including transactivation activity, DNA binding, and protein interactions. The multisite phosphorylation of OREB1 is likely a key for the fine control of its activity and signal integration in the complex stress signaling network of plant cells.
21055934	Rhizoctonia solani Kuhn is the pathogen that causes sheath blight and results in significant yield reduction in rice and in nearly 50 other crops. In order to develop a new fungicide effective against this pathogen, a series of structurally diverse phenazine-1-carboxylic acid derivatives, 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e, 2f, 2g, 2h, 2i, 2j, and 2k, were designed, synthesized and evaluated for their antifungal activity. The two most active compounds 2i and 2j were selected as lead compounds for further antifungal research.
21056470	Mercury (Hg) concentrations were determined in human urine and hair samples from Gouxi (GX, n=25) and Laowuchang (LWC, n=18), Tongren, Guizhou, China, to evaluate human exposure from artisanal Hg mining. Geometric means of urinary Hg (U-Hg) were 216 and 560 μg g(-1) Creatinine (μg g(-1) Cr) for artisanal mining workers from GX and LWC, respectively, and clinical symptoms (finger tremor) were observed in three workers. The means of hair Me-Hg concentrations were 4.26 μg g(-1) (1.87-10.6 μg g(-1)) and 4.55 μg g(-1) (2.29-9.55 μg g(-1)) for the population in GX and LWC, respectively. Significant relationship was found between estimated rice Me-Hg intake and hair Me-Hg levels (r=0.73, p<0.001). Co-exposure to Hg vapor and Me-Hg may pose health risks for the study population.
21056641	GAs are plant hormones that play fundamental roles in plant growth and development. GA2ox, GA3ox, and GA20ox are three key enzymes in GA biosynthesis. These enzymes belong to the 2OG-Fe (II) oxygenase superfamily and are independently encoded by different gene families. To date, genome-wide comparative analyses of GA oxidases in plant species have not been thoroughly carried out. In the present work, 61 GA oxidase family genes from rice (Oryza sativa), Arabidopsis, and soybean (Glycine max) were identified and a full study of these genes including phylogenetic tree construction, gene structure, gene family expansion and analysis of functional motifs was performed. Based on phylogeny, most of the GA oxidases were divided into four subgroups that reflected functional classifications. Intron/intron average length of GA oxidase genes in rice analysis revealed that GA oxidase genes in rice experienced substantial evolutionary divergence. Segmental duplication events were mainly found in soybean genome. However, in rice and Arabidopsis, no single expansion pattern exhibited dominance, indicating that GA oxidase genes from these species might have been subjected to a more complex evolutionary mechanism. In addition, special functional motifs were discovered in GA20ox, GA3ox, and GA2ox, which suggested that different functional motifs are associated with differences in protein function. Taken together our results suggest that GA oxidase family genes have undergone divergent evolutionary routes, especially at the monocot-dicot split, with dynamic evolution occurring in Arabidopsis thaliana and soybean.
21057013	Photosynthetic, nitrogen-fixing Anabaena strains are native to tropical paddy fields and contribute to the carbon and nitrogen economy of such soils. Genetic engineering was employed to improve the nitrogen biofertilizer potential of Anabaena sp. strain PCC7120. Constitutive enhanced expression of an additional integrated copy of the hetR gene from a light-inducible promoter elevated HetR protein expression and enhanced functional heterocyst frequency in the recombinant strain. The recombinant strain displayed consistently higher nitrogenase activity than the wild-type strain and appeared to be in homeostasis with compatible modulation of photosynthesis and respiration. The enhanced combined nitrogen availability from the recombinant strain positively catered to the nitrogen demand of rice seedlings in short-term hydroponic experiments and supported better growth. The engineered strain is stable, eco-friendly, and useful for environmental application as nitrogen biofertilizer in paddy fields.
21057052	Two Gram-reaction-negative, yellow-orange-pigmented, rod-shaped bacterial strains, designated YC6722(T) and YC6723(T), were isolated from rhizosphere soil samples collected from rice fields in Jinju, Korea. Strains YC6722(T) and YC6723(T) grew optimally at 25-30 °C and at pH 7.0-8.5. Phylogenetic analyses of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain YC6722(T) was most closely related to Sphingomonas jaspsi TDMA-16(T) (96.6 % sequence similarity) and strain YC6723(T) was related most closely to Sphingomonas aquatilis JSS7(T) (96.9 %). The two strains contained ubiquinone-10 (Q-10) as the major respiratory quinone system and sym-homospermidine as the major polyamine. The G+C contents of the genomic DNA of strains YC6722(T) and YC6723(T) were 63.3 and 61.0 mol%, respectively. The major fatty acid was C(18 : 1)ω7c. The polar lipids detected in the two strains were phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, diphosphatidylglycerol, sphingoglycolipid, phosphatidyldimethylethanolamine and other unknown lipids. On the basis of their phylogenetic positions, and their biochemical and phenotypic characteristics, strains YC6722(T) and YC6723(T) represent two novel species of the genus Sphingomonas, for which the names Sphingomonas oryziterrae sp. nov. (= KCTC 22476(T) = DSM 21455(T)) and Sphingomonas jinjuensis sp. nov. (KCTC 22477(T) = DSM 21457(T)) are proposed.
21057827	Proteomic and transcriptomic analyses using the growing resources of genomic information have been applied to identification of macromolecules in exudates collected from phloem. Most of the analyses rely on collection of exudate following incisions made to the vasculature, but some limited data are available for exudates collected from excised aphid stylets. Species examined, to date, include a number of cereals (rice, barley, and wheat), a number of cucurbits, castor bean, members of the genus Lupinus, brassicas, and Arabidopsis. As many as 1,100 proteins, some hundreds of transcripts, and a growing number of small ribonucleic acids (RNAs), including micro-RNAs, have been identified across the species with a high degree of commonality. Questions relating to the nature and extent of contamination of sieve element contents with those of surrounding companion cells and nonvascular cells are addressed together with likely functions of identified macromolecules. The review considers likely translocation and systemic signaling functions among the macromolecular inventory of phloem exudates.
21057846	Sphingolipids, components of cellular membranes in eukaryotic cells, have roles in the regulation of tumor growth, inflammation, angiogenesis, and immunity. We investigated the effects of dietary glucosylceramides, sphingolipids isolated from rice bran, on tumor growth of human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The tumor cell line SCCKN cells isolated from well-differentiated human head and neck cancer were subcutaneously inoculated into the right flank of NOD/SCID mice, to establish an SCCKN xenograft model. Rice bran glucosylceramides (300 mg/kg/day) were administered orally to the mice for 14 consecutive days. Dietary glucosylceramides significantly inhibited the growth of the xenograft tumor in comparison with the control group. The TUNEL stain revealed that treatment of mice with glucosylceramides increased the number of apoptotic cells in the implanted tumor tissues and that apoptosis induction was accompanied by the formation of active/cleaved caspase-3. These results suggest that dietary glucosylceramides possibly exert anti-tumor activity by inducing apoptosis of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Therefore, their potential usefulness in treatment and prevention of human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma warrants further investigation.
21058060	1. This study was conducted to verify the impact of different kinds of material and the number of times of litter reuse on the incidence of chicken pathologies. Approximately 4·5 million broilers from conventional Brazilian farms were evaluated in the abattoir for cellulitis, arthritis and contact foot-pad dermatitis. 2. Four different kinds of litter material, Brachiaria grass, corncob, sawdust and rice shell, were used. Brachiaria grass litter showed the highest incidence of contact foot-pad dermatitis. Corncob litter also showed some negative effects on foot quality. Broilers raised on rice shell litter showed good results in terms of the incidence of contact foot-pad dermatitis. The best results were obtained with sawdust litter, because the incidence of cellulitis and arthritis were the lowest and the incidence of contact foot-pad dermatitis was also very low.
21058201	Anthocyanins widely present in human diet and have a variety of health effects. This study investigates the anticancer effects of an anthocyanin-rich extract from black rice (AEBR) on breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. AEBR reduced the viability of breast cancer cell lines MCF-7 (ER(+), HER2/neu(-)), MDA-MB-231 (ER(-), HER2/neu(-)), and MDA-MB-453 (ER(-), HER2/neu(+)) and induced apoptosis in MDA-MB-453 cells via the intrinsic pathway in vitro by activating caspase cascade, cleaving poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), depolarizing mitochondrial membrane potential, and releasing cytochrome C. Oral administration of AEBR (100 mg/kg/day) to BALB/c nude mice bearing MDA-MB-453 cell xenografts significantly suppressed tumor growth and angiogenesis by suppressing the expression of angiogenesis factors MMP-9, MMP-2, and uPA in tumor tissue. Altogether, this study suggests the anticancer effects of AEBR against human breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo by inducing apoptosis and suppressing angiogenesis.
21059242	The genus Aquilegia, consisting of approximately 70 taxa, is a member of the basal eudicot lineage, Ranuculales, which is evolutionarily intermediate between monocots and core eudicots, and represents a relatively unstudied clade in the angiosperm phylogenetic tree that bridges the gap between these two major plant groups. Aquilegia species are closely related and their distribution covers highly diverse habitats. These provide rich resources to better understand the genetic basis of adaptation to different pollinators and habitats that in turn leads to rapid speciation. To gain insights into the genome structure and facilitate gene identification, comparative genomics and whole-genome shotgun sequencing assembly, BAC-based genomics resources are of crucial importance. BAC-based genomic resources, including two BAC libraries, a physical map with anchored markers and BAC end sequences, were established from A. formosa. The physical map was composed of a total of 50,155 BAC clones in 832 contigs and 3939 singletons, covering 21X genome equivalents. These contigs spanned a physical length of 689.8 Mb (~2.3X of the genome) suggesting the complex heterozygosity of the genome. A set of 197 markers was developed from ESTs induced by drought-stress, or involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis or floral development, and was integrated into the physical map. Among these were 87 genetically mapped markers that anchored 54 contigs, spanning 76.4 Mb (25.5%) across the genome. Analysis of a selection of 12,086 BAC end sequences (BESs) from the minimal tiling path (MTP) allowed a preview of the Aquilegia genome organization, including identification of transposable elements, simple sequence repeats and gene content. Common repetitive elements previously reported in both monocots and core eudicots were identified in Aquilegia suggesting the value of this genome in connecting the two major plant clades. Comparison with sequenced plant genomes indicated a higher similarity to grapevine (Vitis vinifera) than to rice and Arabidopsis in the transcriptomes. The A. formosa BAC-based genomic resources provide valuable tools to study Aquilegia genome. Further integration of other existing genomics resources, such as ESTs, into the physical map should enable better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying adaptive radiation and elaboration of floral morphology.
21059694	As one of the largest gene families, F-box domain proteins have important roles in regulating various developmental processes and stress responses. In this study, we have investigated a rice F-box domain gene, MAIF1. The MAIF1 protein is mainly localized in the plasma membrane and nucleus. MAIF1 expression is induced rapidly and strongly by abscisic acid (ABA) and abiotic stresses. MAIF1 expression is also induced in root tips by sucrose, independent of its hydrolytic hexose products, glucose and fructose, and the plant hormones auxin and cytokinin. Overexpression of MAIF1 reduces rice ABA sensitivity and abiotic stress tolerance and promotes rice root growth. These results suggest that MAIF1 is involved in multiple signaling pathways in regulating root growth. Growth restraint in plants is an acclimatization strategy against abiotic stress. Our results also suggest that MAIF1 plays the negative role in response to abiotic stress possibly by regulating root growth.
21060290	Six azaphilonoid derivatives, including two new blue fluorescent monapurfluores A (1) and B (2), two known pyridine-containing molecules, monascopyridines C (3) and D (4), and two known monasfluores A (5) and B (6), were isolated and characterized from red mold rice fermented by Monascus purpureus NTU 568. Structural elucidation of new isolates was based on nuclear magnetic resonance (1H- NMR, 13C-NMR, COSY, HMQC, and HMBC) and other spectroscopic analyses. Bioactivity evaluation indicated that 1-6 possessed anti-inflammatory activities with dose-dependent relationships for lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced nitric oxide production. Furthermore, 1-4 also showed moderate antiproliferative effects against human laryngeal carcinoma (HEp-2) (IC(50) = 14.81~20.06 μg/mL) and human colon adenocarcinoma (WiDr) (IC(50) = 12.89~21.14 μg/mL).
21061097	Red yeast rice is an ancient Chinese dietary staple and medication used by millions of patients as an alternative therapy for hypercholesterolemia. In recent years, the use of red yeast rice has grown exponentially due to increased public interest in complementary and alternative medications and the publication of several randomized, controlled trials demonstrating its efficacy and safety in different populations. The most promising role for red yeast rice is as an alternative lipid-lowering therapy for patients who refuse to take statins because of philosophical reasons or patients who are unable to tolerate statin therapy due to statin-associated myalgias. However, there is limited government oversight of red yeast rice products, wide variability of active ingredients in available formulations, and the potential of toxic byproducts. Therefore, until red yeast rice products are regulated and standardized, physicians and patients should be cautious in recommending this promising alternative therapy for hyperlipidemia.
21061188	Earlier, a pollen-specific Oryza sativa indica pollen allergen gene (OSIPA), coding for expansins/pollen allergens, was isolated from rice, and its promoter--upon expression in tobacco and Arabidopsis--was found active during the late stages of pollen development. In this investigation, to analyze the effects of different putative regulatory motifs of OSIPA promoter, a series of 5' deletions were fused to β-glucuronidase gene (GUS) which were stably introduced into rice and Arabidopsis. Histochemical GUS analysis of the transgenic plants revealed that a 1631 bp promoter fragment mediates maximum GUS expression at different stages of anther/pollen development. Promoter deletions to -1272, -966, -617, and -199 bp did not change the expression profile of the pollen specificity. However, the activity of promoter was reduced as the length of promoter decreased. The region between -1567 and -199 bp was found adequate to confer pollen-specific expression in both rice and Arabidopsis systems. An approximate 4-fold increase in the GUS activity was observed in the pollen of rice when compared to that of Arabidopsis. As such, the OSIPA promoter seems promising for generation of stable male-sterile lines required for the production of hybrids in rice and other crop plants.
21061620	The presence of tandem repeat multicopy families in subtelomeric regions of all chromosomes is a characteristic feature of the rye karyotype, in contrast to the organization of these regions in chromosomes of extensively studied species, such as human, rice, and arabidopsis. To study the molecular structure of these regions, we analyzed BAC clones from a library constructed from the genetic material of rye chromosome 1 short arm (1RS). Screening of the library detected numerous clones that contained copies of multicopy tandem families of DNA sequences pSc200, pSc250, and pSc119.2. An examination of the molecular organization of tandem stretches of the pSc200 family, which is the most common in the rye genome, showed that the subtelomeric 1RS region includes several such stretches, each of which contains characteristic blocks of multimers of various periodicity. Such pattern of heterogeneous organization of tandem repeat stretches differs from the view of the tandem stretches as monotonous sequence of identical monomers, which was generally accepted in recent past.
21061951	Sanitation being an important component of chemical-free management of stored-products pests, the nutritional stress on insects that results from a clean environment may prove advantageous to the use of microbial controls. Dietary stress by food deprivation or suboptimal diet increased susceptibility of the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst), larvae to Beauveria bassiana (Balsamo) Vuillemin. Fungus-related mortality increased linearly with the number of days of food deprivation. Rearing of larvae on a rice meal diet resulted in slower development and greater susceptibility to B. bassiana than rearing on whole wheat flour with brewer's yeast. Larvae that were fed for 24 h on flour with B. bassiana conidia consumed significantly less and weighed significantly less than those that were fed fungus-free flour. Thus, the presence of B. bassiana conidia is itself a cause of dietary stress.
21061962	Life tables of the planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) on two wild rice species, Oryza officinalis Wall, ex Watt. and Oryza rufipogon Griff., and on 'Taichung Native 1' (O. sativa indica TN1) were studied at 27 degrees C in the laboratory. The raw data were analyzed based on the age-stage, two-sex life table to take both sexes and the variable developmental rate among individuals and between sexes into consideration. The intrinsic rate of increase (r), the finite rate (lamda), the net reproduction rate (R0) and the mean generation time (T) of N. lugens on O. officinalis were -0.0616 d(-1), 0.9402 d(-1), 0.10 offspring, and 36.7 d, respectively, showing that the species is resistant to N. lugens. The resistance of O. officinalis is expressed in the long developmental time from first to fifth instar of N. lugens, the reduced preadult survival rate, the short adult longevity, and low fecundity. However, the population parameters of the N. lugens on O. rufipogon and TN1 were 0.1096 d(-1), 1.1158 d(-1), 67.82 offspring, and 38.6 d and 0.1340 d(-1), 1.1434 d(-1), 144.77 offspring, and 37.2 d, respectively. These population parameters showed that N. lugens can successfully survive and reproduce on both O. rufipogon and TN1.
21061966	Bioassay of nitenpyram was conducted on the planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) in the laboratory by using the rice-stem dipping method. The resulting data were analyzed using the complementary log-log time-concentration-mortality modeling technique, yielding the parameters for time and concentration effects of nitenpyram against N. lugens instars. The LC50 values to instars I and II estimated for 24, 48, and 72 h after treatment were 1.03, 0.27, and 0.11 mg/liter, respectively. These values were lower than those for instars III and IV and instars V at the same times. The estimates of LT50 for instars I and II were decreased from 69.06 to 16.22 h with the increasing concentration from 0.125 to 2 mg/liter; the same estimates for both instars III and IV and instars V at the concentrations of 1-2 mg/liter were close to each other, ranging from 33.11 to 44.16 h, much higher than the values of instars I and II at the same concentration. Based on the time-concentration-mortality relationships fitted and the virulence indices (LC50 and LT50) estimated, nitenpyram is a promising pesticide for N. lugens control.
21062143	Using the phenylpyrazole insecticide, fipronil for selection in the laboratory, a resistant Wenzhou strain of the rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae) had an LD(50) at least 45.3 times greater than the susceptible Anhui strain. The realized resistant heritability (h(2)) of 0.213 showed that the tolerant phenotype was moderately heritable and had potential to develop higher tolerance to fipronil. Piperonyl butoxide decreased the effects of fipronil on the mortality of the susceptible larvae with 0.27-0.44 times synergistic rates, but increased the toxicity of fipronil on the resistant larvae with 1.85-2.53 times synergistic rates as compared to that of fipronil alone. The inhibitory effect of piperonyl butoxide on the activity of microsomal O-demethylase was greater in susceptible larvae than in the resistant larvae. The differential synergism of fipronil by piperonyl butoxide in the susceptible and resistant C. suppressalis may be caused by the reduced penetration of fipronil in the lab-selected Wenzhou strain.
21062869	Here we report on the characterization of rice osa-miR827 and its two target genes, OsSPX-MFS1 and OsSPX-MFS2, which encode SPX-MFS proteins predicted to be implicated in phosphate (Pi) sensing or transport. We first show by Northern blot analysis that osa-miR827 is strongly induced by Pi starvation in both shoots and roots. Hybridization of osa-miR827 in situ confirms its strong induction by Pi starvation, with signals concentrated in mesophyll, epidermis and ground tissues of roots. In parallel, we analyzed the responses of the two OsSPX-MFS1 and OsSPX-MFS2 gene targets to Pi starvation. OsSPX-MFS1 mRNA is mainly expressed in shoots under sufficient Pi supply while its expression is reduced on Pi starvation, revealing a direct relationship between induction of osa-miR827 and down-regulation of OsSPX-MFS1. In contrast, OsSPX-MFS2 responds in a diametrically opposed manner to Pi starvation. The accumulation of OsSPX-MFS2 mRNA is dramatically enhanced under Pi starvation, suggesting the involvement of complex regulation of osa-miR827 and its two target genes. We further produced transgenic rice lines overexpressing osa-miR827 and T-DNA knockout mutant lines in which the expression of osa-miR827 is abolished. Compared with wild-type controls, both target mRNAs exhibit similar changes, their expression being reduced and increased in overexpressing and knockout lines, respectively. This suggests that OsSPX-MFS1 and OsSPX-MFS2 are both negatively regulated by osa-miR827 abundance although they respond differently to external Pi conditions. We propose that this is a complex mechanism comprising fine tuning of spatial or temporal regulation of both targets by osa-miR827.
21062870	Gene expression throughout the reproductive process in rice (Oryza sativa) beginning with primordia development through pollination/fertilization to zygote formation was analyzed. We analyzed 25 stages/organs of rice reproductive development including early microsporogenesis stages with 57,381 probe sets, and identified around 26,000 expressed probe sets in each stage. Fine dissection of 25 reproductive stages/organs combined with detailed microarray profiling revealed dramatic, coordinated and finely tuned changes in gene expression. A decrease in expressed genes in the pollen maturation process was observed in a similar way with Arabidopsis and maize. An almost equal number of ab initio predicted genes and cloned genes which appeared or disappeared coordinated with developmental stage progression. A large number of organ-/stage-specific genes were identified; notably 2,593 probe sets for developing anther, including 932 probe sets corresponding to ab initio predicted genes. Analysis of cell cycle-related genes revealed that several cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), cyclins and components of SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes were expressed specifically in reproductive organs. Cell wall biosynthesis or degradation protein genes and transcription factor genes expressed specifically in reproductive stages were also newly identified. Rice genes homologous to reproduction-related genes in other plants showed expression profiles both consistent and inconsistent with their predicted functions. The rice reproductive expression atlas is likely to be the most extensive and most comprehensive data set available, indispensable for unraveling functions of many specific genes in plant reproductive processes that have not yet been thoroughly analyzed.
21062890	Biofuels provide a promising route of producing energy while reducing reliance on petroleum. Developing sustainable liquid fuel production from cellulosic feedstock is a major challenge and will require significant breeding efforts to maximize plant biomass production. Our approach to elucidating genes and genetic pathways that can be targeted for improving biomass production is to exploit the combination of genomic tools and genetic diversity in rice (Oryza sativa). In this study, we analyzed a diverse set of 20 recently resequenced rice varieties for variation in biomass traits at several different developmental stages. The traits included plant size and architecture, aboveground biomass, and underlying physiological processes. We found significant genetic variation among the 20 lines in all morphological and physiological traits. Although heritability estimates were significant for all traits, heritabilities were higher in traits relating to plant size and architecture than for physiological traits. Trait variation was largely explained by variety and breeding history (advanced versus landrace) but not by varietal groupings (indica, japonica, and aus). In the context of cellulosic biofuels development, cell wall composition varied significantly among varieties. Surprisingly, photosynthetic rates among the varieties were inversely correlated with biomass accumulation. Examining these data in an evolutionary context reveals that rice varieties have achieved high biomass production via independent developmental and physiological pathways, suggesting that there are multiple targets for biomass improvement. Future efforts to identify loci and networks underlying this functional variation will facilitate the improvement of biomass traits in other grasses being developed as energy crops.
21063744	Microbe/pathogen-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs/PAMPs) often induce rises in cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](cyt)) and protein phosphorylation. Though they are postulated to play pivotal roles in plant innate immunity, their molecular links and the regulatory mechanisms remain largely unknown. To investigate the regulatory mechanisms for MAMP-induced Ca(2+) mobilization, we have established a transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) cell line stably expressing apoaequorin, and characterized the interrelationship among MAMP-induced changes in [Ca(2+)](cyt), production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and protein phosphorylation. Oligosaccharide and sphingolipid MAMPs induced Ca(2+) transients mainly due to plasma membrane Ca(2+) influx, which were dramatically suppressed by a protein phosphatase inhibitor, calyculin A (CA). Hydrogen peroxide and hypo-osmotic shock triggered similar [Ca(2+)](cyt) elevations, which were not affected by CA. MAMP-induced protein phosphorylation, which is promoted by CA, has been shown to be required for ROS production and MAPK activation, while it negatively regulates MAMPs-induced Ca(2+) mobilization and may play a crucial role in temporal regulation of [Ca(2+)](cyt) signature.
21064565
21064566
21064582
21067680	Edible natural products, either standardized plant extracts or pure compounds, provide unlimited opportunities as safe new antimicrobial agents. This study investigated the antibacterial properties of ethanolic extract from Rhodomyrtus tomentosa (Ait.) Hassk. leaves against Bacillus cereus. Preliminary screening to evaluate the activities of the extract used a paper disc diffusion method against 65 food isolates. The extract produced large inhibition zones in all isolates, ranging from 10 to 18 mm. The results were confirmed by MIC and MBC (16 to 64 and 32 to 256 μg/ml, respectively). Rhodomyrtone, a purified compound, exhibited MIC and MBC at 0.5 and at 2 to 8 μg/ml, respectively. The antimicrobial activity of the extract on vegetative cells and endospores of a representative B. cereus isolate (MIC=32 μg/ml) was assessed by enumerating viable cells at different time intervals up to 24 h. At 2 MICs and 4 MICs, a reduction in the viability of the bacterial cells and endospores was at least 3 log within 6 to 8 h and 2 h after incubation, respectively. Application of the extract in precooked rice and tuna steak demonstrated that after exposure to 16 MICs and 32 MICs, the numbers of viable cells and endospores in both model systems were reduced by at least 2 log within 12 and 6 h, respectively. Since the extract consistently produced remarkable activity against both cells and endospores, it could be used as an alternative food additive for controlling B. cereus without compromising food safety.
21067998	Reactome (http://www.reactome.org) is a collaboration among groups at the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York University School of Medicine and The European Bioinformatics Institute, to develop an open source curated bioinformatics database of human pathways and reactions. Recently, we developed a new web site with improved tools for pathway browsing and data analysis. The Pathway Browser is an Systems Biology Graphical Notation (SBGN)-based visualization system that supports zooming, scrolling and event highlighting. It exploits PSIQUIC web services to overlay our curated pathways with molecular interaction data from the Reactome Functional Interaction Network and external interaction databases such as IntAct, BioGRID, ChEMBL, iRefIndex, MINT and STRING. Our Pathway and Expression Analysis tools enable ID mapping, pathway assignment and overrepresentation analysis of user-supplied data sets. To support pathway annotation and analysis in other species, we continue to make orthology-based inferences of pathways in non-human species, applying Ensembl Compara to identify orthologs of curated human proteins in each of 20 other species. The resulting inferred pathway sets can be browsed and analyzed with our Species Comparison tool. Collaborations are also underway to create manually curated data sets on the Reactome framework for chicken, Drosophila and rice.
21070404	Chitin is a major molecular pattern for various fungi, and its fragments, chitin oligosaccharides, are known to induce various defense responses in plant cells. A plasma membrane glycoprotein, CEBiP (chitin elicitor binding protein) and a receptor kinase, CERK1 (chitin elicitor receptor kinase) (also known as LysM-RLK1), were identified as critical components for chitin signaling in rice and Arabidopsis, respectively. However, it is not known whether each plant species requires both of these two types of molecules for chitin signaling, nor the relationships between these molecules in membrane signaling. We report here that rice cells require a LysM receptor-like kinase, OsCERK1, in addition to CEBiP, for chitin signaling. Knockdown of OsCERK1 resulted in marked suppression of the defense responses induced by chitin oligosaccharides, indicating that OsCERK1 is essential for chitin signaling in rice. The results of a yeast two-hybrid assay indicated that both CEBiP and OsCERK1 have the potential to form hetero- or homo-oligomers. Immunoprecipitation using a membrane preparation from rice cells treated with chitin oligosaccharides suggested the ligand-induced formation of a receptor complex containing both CEBiP and OsCERK1. Blue native PAGE and chemical cross-linking experiments also suggested that a major portion of CEBiP exists as homo-oligomers even in the absence of chitin oligosaccharides.
21071143	In this study, the kinetic parameters of rice husk ash (RHA)/CaO/CeO(2) sorbent for SO(2) and NO sorptions were investigated in a laboratory-scale stainless steel fixed-bed reactor. Data experiments were obtained from our previous results and additional independent experiments were carried out at different conditions. The initial sorption rate constant (k(0)) and deactivation rate constant (k(d)) for SO(2)/NO sorptions were obtained from the nonlinear regression analysis of the experimental breakthrough data using deactivation kinetic model. Both the initial sorption rate constants and deactivation rate constants increased with increasing temperature, except at operating temperature of 170 °C. The activation energy and frequency factor for the SO(2) sorption were found to be 18.0 kJ/mol and 7.37 × 10(5)cm(3)/(g min), respectively. Whereas the activation energy and frequency factor for the NO sorption, were estimated to be 5.64 kJ/mol and 2.19 × 10(4)cm(3)/(g min), respectively. The deactivation kinetic model was found to give a very good agreement with the experimental data of the SO(2)/NO sorptions.
21071600	Breeding crops with the quality of broad-spectrum disease resistance using genetic resources is one of the principal goals of crop improvement. However, the molecular mechanism of broad-spectrum resistance remains largely unknown. Here, we show that GH3-2, encoding an indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)-amido synthetase, mediates a broad-spectrum resistance to bacterial Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzicola and fungal Magnaporthe grisea in rice (Oryza sativa). IAA, the major form of auxin in rice, results in rice more vulnerable to the invasion of different types of pathogens, which is at least partly due to IAA-induced loosening of the cell wall, the natural protective barrier of plant cells to invaders. X. oryzae pv oryzae, X. oryzae pv oryzicola, and M. grisea secrete IAA, which, in turn, may induce rice to synthesize its own IAA at the infection site. IAA induces the production of expansins, the cell wall-loosening proteins, and makes rice vulnerable to pathogens. GH3-2 is likely contributing to a minor quantitative trait locus for broad-spectrum resistance. Activation of GH3-2 inactivates IAA by catalyzing the formation of an IAA-amino acid conjugate, which results in the suppression of expansin genes. Thus, GH3-2 mediates basal resistance by suppressing pathogen-induced IAA accumulation. It is expected that, regulated by a pathogen-induced strong promoter, GH3-2 alone may be used for breeding rice with a broad-spectrum disease resistance.
21071680	Grain development and its evolution in grasses remains poorly understood, despite cereals being our most important source of food. The grain, for which many grass species have been domesticated, is a single-seeded fruit with prominent and persistent endosperm. Brachypodium distachyon, a small wild grass, is being posited as a new model system for the temperate small grain cereals, but little is known about its endosperm development and how this compares with that of the domesticated cereals. A cellular and molecular map of domains within the developing Brachypodium endosperm is constructed. This provides the first detailed description of grain development in Brachypodium for the reference strain, Bd21, that will be useful for future genetic and comparative studies. Development of Brachypodium grains is compared with that of wheat. Notably, the aleurone is not regionally differentiated as in wheat, suggesting that the modified aleurone region may be a feature of only a subset of cereals. Also, the central endosperm and the nucellar epidermis contain unusually prominent cell walls that may act as a storage material. The composition of these cell walls is more closely related to those of barley and oats than to those of wheat. Therefore, although endosperm development is broadly similar to that of temperate small grain cereals, there are significant differences that may reflect its phylogenetic position between the Triticeae and rice.
21071848	In this study, Aspergillus kawachii, Aspergillus oryzae, and Rhizopus sp., were utilized for rice Koji fermentation, and the metabolites were analyzed in a time-dependent manner by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. On Principal Component Analysis, the metabolite patterns were clearly distinguished based on the fungi species. This approach revealed that the quantities of glucose, galactose, and glycerol gradually increased as a function of fermentation time in all trials rice Koji fermentation. The time-dependent changes of these metabolites showed significant increases in glucose in the A. oryzae-treated rice, and in glycerol and galactose in the A. kawachii-treated rice. In addition, glycolysis-related enzyme activities were correlated with the changes in these metabolites. The results indicate that time-dependent metabolite production has the potential to be a valuable tool in selecting inoculant fungi and the optimal fermentation time for rice koji.
21071849	A new set of plasmids for plant transgenic studies was developed. Its strong point is that independent gene cassettes are connected within one binary vector by the restriction endonuclease-based technique only. Using the set, two overexpressing cassettes and three RNA interference (RNAi) cassettes were successfully introduced into rice. Our plasmid set is useful for producing commercial transgenic plants, especially in the case of rice.
21071851	Previously we identified aminooxy compounds as auxin biosynthesis inhibitors. One of the compounds, aminooxyacetic acid (AOA) inhibited indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) biosynthesis in rice and tomato. Here, we found that AOA induced auxin over-accumulation in Arabidopsis. The results suggest that auxin-related metabolic pathways are divergent among these plant species.
21071852	We examined to determine whether senescence-induced tryptophan levels are positively associated with levels of glutamine synthetase (GS1), the initial enzyme in tryptophan biosynthesis. We generated transgenic rice plants in which GS1 was suppressed by RNA interference technology. The transgenic line showed a dramatic decrease in GS1 protein and glutamine content, but the levels of tryptophan and mRNA of the key tryptophan biosynthetic genes upon senescence were comparable to those of the wild type.
21071870	A rapid and easy method to discriminate plant cultivars is indispensable to confirm food labeling. We established a fluorogenic ribonuclease protection (FRIP) assay to discriminate Japanese rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars based on single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The FRIP assay uses a hybridization technique between fluorescent probes and the target sequence prepared by run-off transcription, but the requirement of two PCR thermocycles is the problem when preparing template DNA for run-off transcription from rice genomic DNA. In this study, we designed new PCR primers with asymmetric melting temperatures. These primers amplified the target SNP marker containing a T7 RNA polymerase promoter sequence upstream of the target sequence in a single PCR. Moreover, 100 cultivars were discriminated with the patterns of 15 SNPs. The assay can be used as a rapid method of analysis to discriminate Japanese rice cultivars.
21071909	Rice powder containing Konjak flour made with tuberous roots of Amorphophallus konjac is imported as a rice-processed product from China to Japan. An improved DNA purification method for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of rice in such products is necessary, since Konjak flour constituents absorb the DNA purification buffer to form a gel, and cause problems in the subsequent purification steps. Here, we present a simple preparative system for isolation of the rice and a purification method of the rice DNA from the product. The purified DNA was confirmed to be a good template for both PCR and real-time PCR.
21072609	Ethylene plays important roles in plant growth, development and stress responses. Its receptor genes have been studied in dicots such asArabidopsis, tobacco and tomato. However, no research has been reported for the ethylene receptors from monocots currently. In the present study, we cloned an ethylene receptor geneOSPK2 from rice and found that its encoded protein was divergent from the ethylene receptors from dicots. OSPK2 had a long extension in its N-terminal, followed by three transmembrane segments, a GAF domain, a putative kinase domain and a putative receiver domain. Although most of the domains were conserved, the expected phosphorylation site His and the phosphate receiver Asp have been replaced by Gln and Asn, respectively. This fact indicates that OSPK2 may not function as a histidine kinase in a phosphorelay manner, but rather play roles by other mechanism, probably through Ser/Thr kinase activity. The expression of theOSPK2 gene was investigated by RT-PCR method under different conditions. We found that this gene was apparently induced by wounding and PEG treatment, but not significantly affected by salt and ABA treatments. The differential expression of theOSPK2 gene may reflect its roles in mediating different abiotic stress responses, consistent with our previous studies on tobacco ethylene receptors.
21072616	The relationship between carbon assimilation and high-level expression of the maize PEPC in PEPC transgenic rice was studied by comparison to that in the untransformed rice,japonica kitaake. Stomatal conductance and photosynthetic rates in PEPC transgenic rice were higher than those of untransformed rice, but the increase of stomatal conductance had no statistical correlation with that of photosynthetic rate. Under high levels of light intensity, the protein contents of PEPC and CA were increased significantly. Therefore the photosynthetic capacity was increased greatly (50%) with atmospheric CO(2) supply. While CO(2) release in leaf was reduced and the compensation point was lowered correspondingly under CO(2) free conditions. Treatment of the rice with the PEPC-specific inhibitor DCDP showed that overexpression of PEPC and enhancement of carbon assimilation were related to the stability of Fv/Fm. Labeling with(14)CO(2) for 20 s showed more(14)C was distributed to C(4) primary photosynthate asperate in PEPC transgenic rice, suggesting that there exists a limiting C(4) photosynthetic mechanism in leaves. These results suggest that the primitive CO(2) concentrating mechanism found in rice could be reproduced through metabolic engineering, and shed light on the physiological basis for transgenic breeding with high photosynthetic efficiency.
21072948	The biogas yields of rice straw during anaerobic digestion can be improved by alkaline pretreatment, while it increased the cost because of large amount of alkaline. In order to decrease the amount, 3 sets of experiments were performed using straw with alkaline treatment (pretreatment), digested straw with alkaline treatment (post-treatment) and straw digested directly (control). The results showed that cell wall of straw was destroyed by 5% NaOH treated for 48h, the COD (chemical oxygen demand), total nitrogen, NO(3-) -N and NH(4+) -N were increased from 2 311.11, 175.40, 5.02 and 117.82 mg/L to 10488.89, 417.84, 248.64 and 141.44 mg/L respectively. It suggested that not only lignocellulose but also some nitrogenous materials were destroyed or broken down by alkaline treatment. The lignin structure was destroyed through alkaline treatment that caused the decreased lignin, but the crystallinity index (C(r)I) of cellulose increased from 0.592 3 to 0.662 2. The results of anaerobic digestion showed that the total solid of straw decreased 50.47% after anaerobic digestion treatment leading to less workload and only 50% alkaline used. However, the biogas yield of post-treatment and pretreatment were 382.32 mL/g of TS(added) and 375.84 mL/g of TS(added). Lignin content of control increased while decreased in pretreatment and post-treatment. After anaerobic digestion, crystalline of cellulose was destroyed significantly, and crystalline and amorphous of post-treatment were destroyed more severely than that of pretreatment. From all those mentioned above, post-treatment of straw with alkaline was economical and feasible for biogas production.
2107324	We have examined the amino acid sequences of a number of proteins that have been suggested to be related to chicken cystatin, a protein from chicken egg white that inhibits cysteine proteinases. On the basis of statistical analysis, the following proteins were found to be members of the cystatin superfamily: human cystatin A, rat cystatin A(alpha), human cystatin B, rat cystatin B(beta), rice cystatin, human cystatin C, ox colostrum cystatin, human cystatin S, human cystatin SA, human cystatin SN, chicken cystatin, puff adder cystatin, human kininogen, ox kininogen, rat kininogen, rat T-kininogens 1 and 2, human alpha 2HS-glycoprotein, and human histidine-rich glycoprotein. Fibronectin is shown not to be a member of this superfamily, and the c-Ha-ras oncogene protein p21 (Val-12) probably is not a member also. It was convenient to divide members of the superfamily into four types on the basis of the presence of one, two, or three copies of cystatin-like segments and the presence or absence of disulfide bonds. Evolutionary dendrograms were calculated by three methods, and from these we have constructed a scheme depicting the sequence of events in the evolution of these proteins. We suggest that about 1000 million years ago a precursor containing disulfide loops appeared, and that all disulfide-containing cystatins are derived from this. We follow the evolution of the proteins of the superfamily along four main lineages, with special attention to the part that duplication of segments has played in the development of the more complex molecules.
21074245	The fate of pymetrozine was studied in rice field ecosystem, and a simple and reliable analytical method for determination of pymetrozine in soil, rice straw, paddy water and brown rice was developed. Pymetrozine residues were extracted from samples, cleaned up by solid phase extraction (SPE) and then determined by high-performance liquid chromatography electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS-MS). The average recovery was 81.2-88.1% from soil, 83.4-88.6% from rice straw, 87.3-94.1% from paddy water and 82.9-85.3% from brown rice. The relative standard deviation (RSD) was less than 15%. The limits of detection (LODs) of pymetrozine calculated as a sample concentration were 0.0003 mg kg(-1) (mg L(-1)) for soil and paddy water, 0.001 mg kg(-1) for brown rice and rice straw. The results of kinetics study of pymetrozine residue showed that pymetrozine degradation in water, soil, and rice straw coincided with C=0.194e(-0.986t), C=0.044e(-0.099t), and C=0.988e(-0.780t), respectively; the half-lives were about 0.70 d, 7.0 d and 0.89 d, respectively. The degradation rate of pymetrozine in water was the fastest, followed by rice straw. The highest final pymetrozine residues in brown rice were 0.01 mg kg(-1), which was lower than the EU's upper limit of 0.02 mg kg(-1) in rice. Therefore, a dosage of 300-600 g a.i.hm(-2) was recommended, which could be considered as safe to human beings and animals.
21074315	To find the pathologic cause of the children's dental fluorosis in southwestern China, diet structure before the age of 6 and prevalence rate of dental fluorosis (DF) of 405 children were investigated, and the fluorine and arsenic content of several materials were determined. The prevalence rate of DF of children living on roasted corn before the age of 6 is 100% with nearly 95% having the mild to severe DF; while that of children living on non-roasted corn or rice is less than 5% with all having very mild DF. The average fluorine and arsenic concentration are 20.26 mg/kg and 0.249 mg/kg in roasted corn, which are about 16 times and 35 times more than in non-roasted corn, respectively. The average fluorine concentration is 78 mg/kg in coal, 1116 mg/kg in binder clay and 313 mg/kg in briquette (coal mixed with clay). The average arsenic concentration of coal is 5.83 mg/kg, the binder clay is 20.94 mg/kg, with 8.52 mg/kg in the briquette. Living on roasted corn and chili is the main pathologic cause of endemic fluorosis in southwestern China. The main source of fluorine and arsenic pollution of roasted corn and chill is the briquette of coal and binder clay.
21074319	Fluoride content in groundwater that is greater than the WHO limit of 1.5mg/L, causes dental and skeletal fluorosis. In India, several states are affected with excess fluoride in groundwater. The problem is aggravated due to the lack of appropriate and user friendly defluoridation technology. Several fluoride removal techniques are reported in the literature amongst which the Nalgonda technique and use of activated alumina have been studied extensively. However a simple, efficient and cost effective technology is not available for widespread use in many affected regions. In this paper, we present a novel cost effective defluoridation method that is based on surface modification of rice husk ash (RHA) by coating aluminum hydroxide. RHA is obtained by burning rice/paddy husk which is an abundantly available and is an inexpensive raw material. The results showed excellent fluoride removal efficiency and the adsorption capacity was found to be between 9 and 10mg/g.
21074400	This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author and editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
21074885	A total of 2177 food samples collected from nine cities in northern China during 2005 to 2007 were screened for the presence of Listeria monocytogenes. All L. monocytogenes isolates were subjected to serotyping, antimicrobial susceptibility, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), as well as PCR screening to identify genes responsible for tetracycline resistance [tet(L), tet(M), tet(K), tet(S) and tet(B)], transposon Tn916, and class 1 integron. Contamination with L. monocytogenes was detected in 4.13% (90/2177) of the total samples representing various food products. The pathogen was mainly isolated from frozen food made of wheat flour or rice products (26/252, 10.32%) and raw meat products (46/733, 6.28%). Besides, 3.31% (10/302) of cooked meat, 1.17% (4/343) of seafood, 0.98% (2/204) of non-fermented bean products and 0.62% (2/323) of vegetables samples were contaminated by this bacterium. The L. monocytogenes isolates belonged to five serotypes (1/2a, 1/2b, 1/2c, 4b, and 3a), with serotype 1/2a being dominant (48.88%). Antimicrobial resistance was most frequently observed for ciprofloxacin (17.8%), tetracycline (15.6%) and streptomycin (12.2%). Overall, resistance was observed against 14 out of 18 antimicrobials tested while multiple resistances occurred among 18.9% (17/90) isolates. Interestingly, two isolates were resistant to more than five antimicrobials. Among 14 tetracycline-resistant isolates, 13 carried tet(M) gene including nine possessing Tn916, and one harbored tet(S) gene. PFGE analysis revealed genetic heterogeneity among individual serotypes as well as scattered occurrence of some genotypes without any clear-cut correlation to source or food type. The widespread distribution of epidemiologically important serotypes (1/2a, 1/2b and 4b) of L. monocytogenes, and their resistance to commonly used antibiotics indicate a potential public health risk. Our data also indicate that L. monocytogenes could act as a reservoir of mobile tet genes along the food chain.
21075415	World wide arsenic (As) contamination of rice has raised much concern as it is the staple crop for millions. Four most commonly cultivated rice cultivars, Triguna, IR-36, PNR-519 and IET-4786, of the West Bengal region were taken for a hydroponic study to examine the effect of arsenate (As(V)) and arsenite (As(III)) on growth response, expression of genes and antioxidants vis-à-vis As accumulation. The rice genotypes responded differentially under As(V) and As(III) stress in terms of gene expression and antioxidant defences. Some of the transporters were up-regulated in all rice cultivars at lower doses of As species, except IET-4786. Phytochelatin synthase, GST and γ-ECS showed considerable variation in their expression pattern in all genotypes, however in IET-4786 they were generally down-regulated in higher As(III) stress. Similarly, most of antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), guaiacol peroxidase (GPX), catalase (CAT), monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR) and dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR) increased significantly in Triguna, IR-36 and PNR-519 and decreased in IET-4786. Our study suggests that Triguna, IR-36 and PNR-519 are tolerant rice cultivars accumulating higher arsenic; however IET-4786 is susceptible to As-stress and accumulates less arsenic than other cultivars.
21075795	AgBase (http://www.agbase.msstate.edu/) provides resources to facilitate modeling of functional genomics data and structural and functional annotation of agriculturally important animal, plant, microbe and parasite genomes. The website is redesigned to improve accessibility and ease of use, including improved search capabilities. Expanded capabilities include new dedicated pages for horse, cat, dog, cotton, rice and soybean. We currently provide 590 240 Gene Ontology (GO) annotations to 105 454 gene products in 64 different species, including GO annotations linked to transcripts represented on agricultural microarrays. For many of these arrays, this provides the only functional annotation available. GO annotations are available for download and we provide comprehensive, species-specific GO annotation files for 18 different organisms. The tools available at AgBase have been expanded and several existing tools improved based upon user feedback. One of seven new tools available at AgBase, GOModeler, supports hypothesis testing from functional genomics data. We host several associated databases and provide genome browsers for three agricultural pathogens. Moreover, we provide comprehensive training resources (including worked examples and tutorials) via links to Educational Resources at the AgBase website.
21075883	Melioidosis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in Southeast Asia, where the causative organism (Burkholderia pseudomallei) is present in the soil. In the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Laos), B. pseudomallei is a significant cause of sepsis around the capital, Vientiane, and has been isolated in soil near the city, adjacent to the Mekong River. We explored whether B. pseudomallei occurs in Lao soil distant from the Mekong River, drawing three axes across northwest, northeast, and southern Laos to create nine sampling areas in six provinces. Within each sampling area, a random rice field site containing a grid of 100 sampling points each 5 m apart was selected. Soil was obtained from a depth of 30 cm and cultured for B. pseudomallei. Four of nine sites (44%) were positive for B. pseudomallei, including all three sites in Saravane Province, southern Laos. The highest isolation frequency was in east Saravane, where 94% of soil samples were B. pseudomallei positive with a geometric mean concentration of 464 CFU/g soil (95% confidence interval, 372 to 579 CFU/g soil; range, 25 to 10,850 CFU/g soil). At one site in northwest Laos (Luangnamtha), only one sample (1%) was positive for B. pseudomallei, at a concentration of 80 CFU/g soil. Therefore, B. pseudomallei occurs in Lao soils beyond the immediate vicinity of the Mekong River, alerting physicians to the likelihood of melioidosis in these areas. Further studies are needed to investigate potential climatic, soil, and biological determinants of this heterogeneity.
21075907	A Gram-stain-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped bacterium, designated strain J3-A127(T), was isolated from the roots of fresh rice plants (Oryza sativa). Cells were non-motile and no flagellum was detected. Comparison of 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that the strain was phylogenetically related to species of the genus Rhizobium, with closest similarity to Rhizobium oryzae Alt 505(T) (96.4 %). The low levels of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity (<90 %) found between the gyrB, atpD, recA and glnII gene sequences of strain J3-A127(T) and the type strains of recognized species of the genus Rhizobium also indicated that it represented a separate species. The temperature range for growth was 10-40 °C (optimum around 28 °C) and the pH range was 6.0-11.0 (optimum pH 7.0-8.0). Strain J3-A127(T) tolerated NaCl concentrations up to 5.0 % (w/v). The strain was catalase- and oxidase-positive. The main cellular fatty acids were summed feature 8 (C(18 : 1)ω7c and/or C(18 : 1)ω6; 46.7 %). The DNA G+C content of strain J3-A127(T) was 59.5 mol%. Strain J3-A127(T) did not form any nodules on four different legumes and the nodD and nifH genes were not detected by PCR. According to physiological and biochemical characteristics and genotypic data, strain J3-A127(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Rhizobium, for which the name Rhizobium pseudoryzae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is J3-A127(T) (= ACCC 10380(T) = KCTC 23294(T)).
21075959	Rice (Oryza sativa) plants carrying the Pi-i resistance gene to blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae restrict invaded fungus in infected tissue via hypersensitive reaction or response (HR), which is accompanied by rapid ethylene production and formation of small HR lesions. Ethylene biosynthesis has been implicated to be important for blast resistance; however, the individual roles of ethylene and cyanide, which are produced from the precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, remain unevaluated. In this study, we found that Pi-i-mediated resistance was compromised in transgenic rice lines, in which ethylene biosynthetic enzyme genes were silenced and then ethylene production was inhibited. The compromised resistance in transgenic lines was recovered by exogenously applying cyanide but not ethephon, an ethylene-releasing chemical in plant tissue. In a susceptible rice cultivar, treatment with cyanide or 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid induced the resistance to blast fungus in a dose-dependent manner, while ethephon did not have the effect. Cyanide inhibited the growth of blast fungus in vitro and in planta, and application of flavonoids, secondary metabolites that exist ubiquitously in the plant kingdom, enhanced the cyanide-induced inhibition of fungal growth. These results suggested that cyanide, whose production is triggered by HR in infected tissue, contributes to the resistance in rice plants via restriction of fungal growth.
21076153	Now in its 10th year, the Gramene database (http://www.gramene.org) has grown from its primary focus on rice, the first fully-sequenced grass genome, to become a resource for major model and crop plants including Arabidopsis, Brachypodium, maize, sorghum, poplar and grape in addition to several species of rice. Gramene began with the addition of an Ensembl genome browser and has expanded in the last decade to become a robust resource for plant genomics hosting a wide array of data sets including quantitative trait loci (QTL), metabolic pathways, genetic diversity, genes, proteins, germplasm, literature, ontologies and a fully-structured markers and sequences database integrated with genome browsers and maps from various published studies (genetic, physical, bin, etc.). In addition, Gramene now hosts a variety of web services including a Distributed Annotation Server (DAS), BLAST and a public MySQL database. Twice a year, Gramene releases a major build of the database and makes interim releases to correct errors or to make important updates to software and/or data.
21076489	Although resveratrol has been proven to possess diverse health benefits, several recent reports have demonstrated conflicting results on some aspects of its effects, including its anti-aging properties. Considerable debate appears to exist on the dose and bioavailability of resveratrol, leading to the controversies on its effectiveness. To resolve the problem, we designed a study with a resveratrol formulation that contained resveratrol supplemented with 5% quercetin and 5% rice bran phytate (commercially known as Longevinex). These ingredients were micronized to increase the bioavailability. Sprague-Dawley rats were gavaged with either Longevinex or vehicle (5% quercetin plus 5% rice bran phytate), and rats were sacrificed after 1 or 3 months, when isolated working hearts were subjected to 30 min ischemia followed by 2 h of reperfusion. Longevinex-treated hearts, irrespective of the duration of treatments, revealed superior cardiac performance, reduced infarct size, and induction of survival signals as evidenced by increased Bcl2/Bax ratio and enhanced Akt phosphorylation. In contrast, LC3-II and Beclin were enhanced significantly after 3 months of Longevinex treatment, suggesting that autophagy occurred only after feeding Longevinex to rats for a prolonged period of time. Corroborating with the results of autophagy, Sirt1 and Sirt3 increased significantly only after 3 months of Longevinex treatment, suggesting that enhanced expression of Sirts correlated with induction of autophagy. In concert, Longevinex caused phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of FoxO1, FoxO3a, and FoxO4, indicating involvement of FoxOs with autophagy. Since Sirts and FoxOs are reliable markers of longevity, the results appear to suggest that Longevinex induces longevity after prolonged feeding via induction of autophagy, while it converts death signals into survival signals and provides cardioprotection within a relatively shorter period of time.
21076626	Recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) activates the innate immune response. The rice PRR, XA21, confers robust resistance at adult stages to most strains of the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Seedlings are still easily infected by Xoo, causing severe yield losses. Here we report that Xa21 is induced by Xoo infection and that ectopic expression of Xa21 confers resistance at three leaf stage (three-week-old), overcoming the developmental limitation of XA21-mediated resistance. Ectopic expression of Xa21 also up-regulates a larger set of defense-related genes as compared to Xa21 driven by the native promoter. These results indicate that altered regulation of Xa21 expression is useful for developing enhanced resistance to Xoo at multiple developmental stages.
21076770	Tetramethylarsonium has for the first time been identified in a commercially grown food product, rice, constituting up to 5.8% of the total arsenic in the rice.
21077114	The molecular diversity of aerobic endospore-forming bacteria, typically Bacillus and its derived genera, has been investigated in various environments. However, there have been few investigations concerning Bacillus in acidic soils. In this study, the genotypic diversity and phylogenetic relationships among plant growth-promoting (PGP) bacilli isolated from the rice rhizosphere growing in acidic soils of Kerala (pH varying from 6.3 to 6.8) were investigated. For assessing their biocontrol potential and PGP attributes, 115 isolates were randomly selected and 49 isolates that were positive for multiple traits were selected. Metabolic characterization of representative strains, using the Biolog GP2 (Gram Positive) MicroPlate(TM) , revealed a large versatility with respect to carbohydrate utilization. Amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis revealed 13 clusters at 65% similarity level, which consisted of 1-21 strains. 16S rDNA partial sequencing assigned all the isolates, except for one, to the Bacillus genus, with close relatedness to Bacillus humi, B. megaterium, B. drentensis, B. pocheonensis, B. aestuarii, B. arbutinivorans, B. niacini, and Brevibacterium casei. The Bacillus species with different metabolic capabilities, PGP abilities, and genetic diversity found in this study are likely to have ecological relevance.
21077666	Simulated pot experiments were conducted on four rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes (Triguna, IR-36, PNR-519, and IET-4786) to examine the effects of As(V) on amino acids and mineral nutrient status in grain along with antioxidant response to arsenic exposure. Rice genotypes responded differentially to As(V) exposure in terms of amino acids and antioxidant profiles. Total amino acid content in grains of all rice genotypes was positively correlated with arsenic accumulation. While, most of the essential amino acids increased in all cultivars except IR-36, glutamic acid and glycine increased in IET-4786 and PNR-519. The level of nonprotein thiols (NPTs) and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD; EC 1.15.1.1), glutathione reductase (GR; EC 1.6.4.2) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX; EC 1.11.1.11) increased in all rice cultivars except IET-4786. A significant genotypic variation was also observed in specific arsenic uptake (SAU; mg kg(-1)dw), which was in the order of Triguna (134) > IR-36 (71) > PNR-519 (53) > IET-4786 (29). Further, application of As(V) at lower doses (4 and 8 mg L(-1) As) enhanced the accumulation of selenium (Se) and other nutrients (Fe, P, Zn, and S), however, higher dose (12 mg L(-1) As) limits the nutrient uptake in rice. In conclusion, low As accumulating genotype, IET-4786, which also had significantly induced level of essential amino acids, seems suitable for cultivation in moderately As contaminated soil and would be safe for human consumption.
21078052	Novokinin (Arg-Pro-Leu-Lys-Pro-Trp, RPLKPW) is a new potent antihypertensive peptide based on the sequence of ovokinin (2-7) derived from ovalbumin. We previously generated transgenic rice seeds in which eight novokinin were fused to storage protein glutelins (GluA2 and GluC) for expression. Oral administration of these seeds to spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) reduced systolic blood pressures at a dose of 1 g seed/kg of SHR. Here, 10- or 18-tandem repeats of novokinin with an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention signal (Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu, KDEL) at the C terminus were directly expressed in rice under the control of the glutelin promoter containing its signal peptide. Only small amounts of the 18-repeat novokinin accumulated, and it was unexpectedly deposited in the nucleolus. This abnormal intracellular localization was explained by an endogenous signal for nuclear localization. The GFP reporter protein fused to this sequence targeted to nuclei by a transient assay using onion epidermal cells. Transgenic seed expressing the 18-repeat novokinin exhibited significantly higher antihypertensive activity after a single oral dose to SHR even at one-quarter the amount (0.25 g/kg) of the transgenic rice seed expressing the fusion construct; though, its novokinin content was much lower (1/5). Furthermore, in a long-term administration for 5 weeks, even a smaller dose (0.0625 g/kg) of transgenic seeds could confer antihypertensive activity. This high antihypertensive activity may be attributed to differences in digestibility of expressed products by gastrointestinal enzymes and the unique intracellular localization. These results indicate that accumulation of novokinin as a tandemly repeated structure in transgenic rice is more effective than as a fusion-type structure.
21078193	An in silico analysis of the mitochondrial protein import apparatus from a variety of species; including Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Chlorella variabilis, Ectocarpus siliculosus, Cyanidioschyzon merolae, Physcomitrella patens, Selaginella moellendorffii, Picea glauca, Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana was undertaken to determine if components differed within and between plant and non-plant species. The channel forming subunits of the outer membrane components Tom40 and Sam50 are conserved between plant groups and other eukaryotes. In contrast, the receptor component(s) in green plants, particularly Tom20, (C. reinhardtii, C. variabilis, P. patens, S. moellendorffii, P. glauca, O. sativa and A. thaliana) are specific to this lineage. Red algae contain a Tom22 receptor that is orthologous to yeast Tom22. Furthermore, plant mitochondrial receptors display differences between various plant lineages. These are evidenced by distinctive motifs in all plant Metaxins, which are absent in red algae, and the presence of the outer membrane receptor OM64 in Angiosperms (rice and Arabidopsis), but not in lycophytes (S. moellendorffii) and gymnosperms (P. glauca). Furthermore, although the intermembrane space receptor Mia40 is conserved across a wide phylogenetic range, its function differs between lineages. In all plant lineages, Tim17 contains a C-terminal extension, which may act as a receptor component for the import of nucleic acids into plant mitochondria. It is proposed that the observed functional divergences are due to the selective pressure to sort proteins between mitochondria and chloroplasts, resulting in differences in protein receptor components between plant groups and other organisms. Additionally, diversity of receptor components is observed within the plant kingdom. Even when receptor components are orthologous across plant and non-plant species, it appears that the functions of these have expanded or diverged in a lineage specific manner.
21079756	This study identifies 2,617 candidate genes related to anthocyanin biosynthesis in rice using microarray analysis and a newly developed maximum boundary range algorithm. Three seed developmental stages were examined in white cultivar and two black Dissociation insertion mutants. The resultant 235 transcription factor genes found to be associated with anthocyanin were classified into nine groups. It is compared the 235 genes by transcription factor analysis and 593 genes from among clusters of COGs related to anthocyanin functions. Total 32 genes were found to be expressed commonly. Among these, 9 unknown and hypothetical genes were revealed to be expressed at each developmental stage and were verified by RT-PCR. These genes most likely play regulatory roles in either anthocyanin production or metabolism during flavonoid biosynthesis. While these genes require further validation, our results underline the potential usefulness of the newly developed algorithm.
21080033	A rice mini-core collection consisting of 217 accessions has been developed to represent the USDA core and whole collections that include 1,794 and 18,709 accessions, respectively. To improve the efficiency of mining valuable genes and broadening the genetic diversity in breeding, genetic structure and diversity were analyzed using both genotypic (128 molecular markers) and phenotypic (14 numerical traits) data. This mini-core had 13.5 alleles per locus, which is the most among the reported germplasm collections of rice. Similarly, polymorphic information content (PIC) value was 0.71 in the mini-core which is the highest with one exception. The high genetic diversity in the mini-core suggests there is a good possibility of mining genes of interest and selecting parents which will improve food production and quality. A model-based clustering analysis resulted in lowland rice including three groups, aus (39 accessions), indica (71) and their admixtures (5), upland rice including temperate japonica (32), tropical japonica (40), aromatic (6) and their admixtures (12) and wild rice (12) including glaberrima and four other species of Oryza. Group differentiation was analyzed using both genotypic distance Fst from 128 molecular markers and phenotypic (Mahalanobis) distance D(2) from 14 traits. Both dendrograms built by Fst and D(2) reached similar-differentiative relationship among these genetic groups, and the correlation coefficient showed high value 0.85 between Fst matrix and D(2) matrix. The information of genetic and phenotypic differentiation could be helpful for the association mapping of genes of interest. Analysis of genotypic and phenotypic diversity based on genetic structure would facilitate parent selection for broadening genetic base of modern rice cultivars via breeding effort.
21080076	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a major grain in the human diet and carotenoids are valuable antioxidants. However, little is known about varietal differences in the carotenoid contents of the rice bran. The objective of this study is to determine the relative differences in bran carotenoid levels among all the five subgroups of rice. Measurements were made by a recently described, rapid non-destructive fluorescence quenching method. Confirmation by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) after solvent extraction of the bran indicated that the major carotenoid was lutein. Our data showed that carotenoid levels were stable over 10 years of storage. Tropical japonica rice, the most consumed subgroup in the United States, tended to have the lowest levels of carotenoids in the bran while temperate japonicas had the highest. These differences in carotenoid content may open up new opportunities for identifying or breeding rice varieties with higher nutritional value.
21081102	The toxic metalloid arsenite has become a potential threat to rice growing regions leading to serious contamination in food chain. In the present study effect of different physiological concentration of arsenite that is toxic and triggers the molecular events were evaluated in rice seedlings. Along with severe effect on the growth of rice seedling, production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) in arsenite treated rice roots was also observed. Activation of a 42kDa mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK/MPK) by arsenite was observed in rice leaves and 42 and 44kDa in roots in dose dependent manner. The activated MAPK could be immunoprecipitated with anti-phospho-tyrosine antibody, 4G10. The kinetic of MAPK activation by arsenite was found to be dose dependent. Transcript analysis of MAPK family and immunokinase assay in arsenite treated rice seedling revealed significant level of induction in OsMPK3 transcripts in leaves and OsMPK3, OsMPK4 transcripts in roots. Among MAPK kinase (MKKs) gene family, OsMKK4 transcripts were found to be induced in arsenite treated rice leaves and roots. In-silico homology modeling and docking analysis supported OsMPK3-OsMKK4 interaction. The data indicates that arsenite stress is transduced through MAPK signaling cascade in rice.
21081239	The development of a two phase hollow fiber liquid-phase microextraction technique, followed by gas-chromatography-flame ionization detection (GC-FID) for the profiling of the fatty acids (FAs) (lauric, myristic, palmitic, stearic, palmitoleic, oleic, linoleic, linolenic and arachidic) in vegetable oils is described. Heptadecanoic acid methyl ester was used as the internal standard. The FAs were transesterified to their corresponding methyl esters prior to the extraction. Extraction parameters such as type of extracting solvent, temperature, extraction time, stirring speed and salt addition were studied and optimized. Recommended conditions were extraction solvent, n-tridecane; extraction time, 35 min; extraction temperature, ambient; without addition of salt. Enrichment factors varying from 37 to 115 were achieved. Calibration curves for the nine FAs were well correlated (r(2)>0.994) within the range of 10-5000 μg L(-1). The limit of detection (signal:noise, 3) was 4.73-13.21 ng L(-1). The method was successfully applied to the profiling of the FAs in palm oils (crude, olein, kernel, and carotino cooking oil) and other vegetable oils (soybean, olive, coconut, rice bran and pumpkin). The encouraging enrichments achieved offer an interesting option for the profiling of the minor and major FAs in palm and other vegetable oils.
21081278	2010 marks the 10th anniversary of the completion of the first plant genome sequence (Arabidopsis thaliana). Triggered by advancements in sequencing technologies, many crop genome sequences have been produced, with eight published since 2008. To date, however, only the rice (Oryza sativa) genome sequence has been finished to a quality level similar to that of the Arabidopsis sequence. This trend to produce draft genomes could affect the ability of researchers to address biological questions of speciation and recent evolution or to link sequence variation accurately to phenotypes. Here, we review the current crop genome sequencing activities, discuss how variability in sequence quality impacts utility for different studies and provide a perspective for a paradigm shift in selecting crops for sequencing in the future.
21082325	Hybrid sterility hinders the exploitation of the heterosis displayed by japonica × indica rice hybrids. The variation in pollen semi-sterility observed among hybrids between the japonica recipient cultivar and each of two sets of chromosome segment substitution lines involving introgression from an indica cultivar was due to a factor on chromosome 5 known to harbor the gene S24. S24 was fine mapped to a 42 kb segment by analyzing a large F(2) population bred from the cross S24-NIL × Asominori, while the semi-sterility shown by the F(1) hybrid was ascribable to mitotic failure at the early bicellular pollen stage. Interestingly, two other pollen sterility genes (f5-Du and Sb) map to the same region (Li et al. in Chin Sci Bull 51:675-680, 2006; Wang et al. in Theor Appl Genet 112:382-387, 2006), allowing a search for candidate genes in the 6.4 kb overlap between the three genes. By sequencing the overlapped fragment in wild rice, indica cultivars and japonica cultivars, a protein ankyrin-3 encoded by the ORF2 was identified as the molecular base for S24. A cultivar Dular was found to have a hybrid-sterility-neutral allele, S24-n, in which an insertion of 30 bp was confirmed. Thus, it was possible to add one more case of molecular bases for the hybrid sterility. No gamete abortion is caused on heterozygous maternal genotype with an impaired sequence from the hybrid-sterility-neutral genotype. This result will be useful in understanding of wide compatibility in rice breeding.
21083564	• Sumoylation, a post-translational modification, has important functions in both animals and plants. However, the biological function of the SUMO E3 ligase, SIZ1, in rice (Oryza sativa) is still under investigation. • In this study, we employed two different genetic approaches, the use of siz1 T-DNA mutant and SIZ1-RNAi transgenic plants, to characterize the function of rice SIZ1. • Genetic results revealed the co-segregation of single T-DNA insertional recessive mutation with the observed phenotypes in siz1. In addition to showing reduced plant height, tiller number and seed set percentage, both the siz1 mutant and SIZ1-RNAi transgenic plants showed obvious defects in anther dehiscence, but not pollen viability. The anther indehiscence in siz1 was probably a result of defects in endothecium development before anthesis. Interestingly, rice orthologs of AtIRX and ZmMADS2, which are essential for endothecium development during anther dehiscence, were significantly down-regulated in siz1. Compared with the wild-type, the sumoylation profile of high-molecular-weight proteins in mature spikelets was reduced significantly in siz1 and the SIZ1-RNAi line with notably reduced SIZ1 expression. The nuclear localization signal located in the SIZ1 C-terminus was sufficient for its nuclear targeting in bombarded onion epidermis. • The results suggest the functional role of SIZ1, a SUMO E3 ligase, in regulating rice anther dehiscence.
21083801	Plant transformation based on random integration of foreign DNA often generates complex integration structures. Precision in the integration process is necessary to ensure the formation of full-length, single-copy integration. Site-specific recombination systems are versatile tools for precise genomic manipulations such as DNA excision, inversion or integration. The yeast FLP-FRT recombination system has been widely used for DNA excision in higher plants. Here, we report the use of FLP-FRT system for efficient targeting of foreign gene into the engineered genomic site in rice. The transgene vector containing a pair of directly oriented FRT sites was introduced by particle bombardment into the cells containing the target locus. FLP activity generated by the co-bombarded FLP gene efficiently separated the transgene construct from the vector-backbone and integrated the backbone-free construct into the target site. Strong FLP activity, derived from the enhanced FLP protein, FLPe, was important for the successful site-specific integration (SSI). The majority of the transgenic events contained a precise integration and expressed the transgene. Interestingly, each transgenic event lacked the co-bombarded FLPe gene, suggesting reversion of the integration structure in the presence of the constitutive FLPe expression. Progeny of the precise transgenic lines inherited the stable SSI locus and expressed the transgene. This work demonstrates the application of FLP-FRT system for site-specific gene integration in plants using rice as a model.
21084126	Nukadoko is a naturally fermented rice bran mash traditionally used for pickling vegetables in Japan; its refreshment and fermentation cycles sometimes continue for many years. Here, we investigated the structure and dynamics of the bacterial community in nukadoko by conducting pyrosequencing and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses of 16S ribosomal RNA genes (rDNA). Of the 16 different samples studied, 13 showed Lactobacillus-dominated microbiota, suggesting that aged nukadoko samples tend to realize a niche, favorable Lactobacillus species. The lactic acid bacterial community of each of the 16 samples was classified into 3 types according to the presence or absence of 2 predominant species, Lactobacillus namurensis and Lactobacillus acetotolerans. The dynamics of the bacterial community during fermentation and the subsequent ripening process were examined using a laboratory model of nukadoko inoculated with an aged nukadoko sample (inoculated model). Lb. namurensis grew rapidly in the first 2 days, accompanied with a rapid decrease in pH and an increase in lactate levels, while Lb. acetotolerans grew with a longer doubling time and slow acidification during the 20 days after inoculation. On the other hand, spontaneous fermentation of the nukadoko model prepared from fresh rice bran without the nukadoko inoculation (inoculant-free model), showed the growth of some non-Lactobacillus species such as staphylococci and bacilli within the first 10 days; thereafter, Lb. namurensis was dominant, while Lb. acetotolerans was not detected during the 20-day experimental period. These results suggest that the naturally established Lactobacillus community in aged nukadoko is effectively involved in the biocontrol of the microbial community of nukadoko during the refreshment and fermentation cycles.
21084222	Potassium ion (K(+)) plays vital roles in many aspects of cellular homeostasis including competing with sodium ion (Na(+)) during potassium starvation and salt stress. Therefore, one way to engineer plant cells with improved salt tolerance is to enhance K(+) uptake activity of the cells, while keeping Na(+) out during salt stress. Here, in search for Na(+)-insensitive K(+) transporter for this purpose, bacterial expression system was used to characterize two K(+) transporters, OsHAK2 and OsHAK5, isolated from rice (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare). The two OsHAK transporters are members of a KT/HAK/KUP transporter family, which is one of the major K(+) transporter families in bacteria, fungi and plants. When expressed in an Escherichia coli K(+) transport mutant strain LB2003, both OsHAK transporters rescued the growth defect in K(+)-limiting conditions by significantly increasing the K(+) content of the cells. Under the condition with a large amount of extracellular Na(+), we found that OsHAK5 functions as a Na(+)-insensitive K(+) transporter, while OsHAK2 is sensitive to extracellular Na(+) and exhibits higher Na(+) over K(+) transport activities. Moreover, constitutive expression of OsHAK5 in cultured-tobacco BY2 (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Bright Yellow 2) cells enhanced the accumulation of K(+) but not Na(+) in the cells during salt stress and conferred increased salt tolerance to the cells. Transient expression experiment indicated that OsHAK5 is localized to the plant plasma membrane. These results suggest that the plasma-membrane localized Na(+) insensitive K(+) transporters, similar to OsHAK5 identified here, could be used as a tool to enhance salt tolerance in plant cells.
21084773	Higher plants utilize various mechanisms to maintain iron homeostasis. To acquire sparingly soluble iron from the rhizosphere, graminaceous plants synthesize natural iron (III) chelators known as mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs). Recent research has uncovered various genes involved in iron uptake and translocation, as well as factors regulating the expression of these genes, especially in rice. Manipulation of these molecular components is used to produce transgenic crops with enhanced tolerance to iron deficiency, or with a high seed iron content. Since iron homeostasis is closely linked to that of other mineral elements, an understanding of this phenomenon will serve as the basis for the production of crops with low concentrations of toxic metals and transgenic plants for phytoremediation.
21086455	Globally, one of the major technologic goals is to achieve cost-effective lignocellulosic ethanol production from biomass feedstocks. Lignocellulosic biomass of four dedicated energy crops [giant reed (Arundo donax L.), elephantgrass (Pennisetum purpureum (Schumach), Miscanthus × giganteus (Illinois clone), and (clone Q42641) {hybrid of Miscanthus sinensis Anderss. and Miscanthus sacchariflorus (Maxim)}, Hack. called giant miscanthus, and sugarcane clone US 84-1028 (Saccharum L. spp. hybrid)] and residues from two crops [soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) litter and rice (Oryza sativa L.) husk] were tested for bioethanol production using cellulose solvent-based lignocellulose fractionation (CSLF) pretreatment and enzymatic (cellulase) hydrolysis. Giant miscanthus (Illinois), giant reed, giant miscanthus (Q42641), elephantgrass, and sugarcane all yielded higher amount of glucose on a biomass dry weight basis (0.290-0.331 g/g), than did rice husk (0.181 g/g) and soybean litter (0.186 g/g). To reduce the capital investment for energy consumption in fermentation, we used a self-flocculating yeast strain (SPSC01) to ferment the lignocellulosic biomass hydrolysates. Bioethanol production was ∼0.1 g/g in dedicated energy crops and less in two crop residues. These methods and data can help to develop a cost-effective downstream process for bioethanol production.
21087465	FK506 binding proteins (FKBPs) and cyclophilins (CYPs) are abundant and ubiquitous proteins belonging to the peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase (PPIase) superfamily, which regulate much of metabolism through a chaperone or an isomerization of proline residues during protein folding. They are collectively referred to as immunophilin (IMM), being present in almost all cellular organs. In particular, a number of IMMs relate to environmental stresses. FKBP and CYP proteins in rice (Oryza sativa cv. Japonica) were identified and classified, and given the appropriate name for each IMM, considering the ortholog-relation with Arabidopsis and Chlamydomonas or molecular weight of the proteins. 29 FKBP and 27 CYP genes can putatively be identified in rice; among them, a number of genes can be putatively classified as orthologs of Arabidopsis IMMs. However, some genes were novel, did not match with those of Arabidopsis and Chlamydomonas, and several genes were paralogs by genetic duplication. Among 56 IMMs in rice, a significant number are regulated by salt and/or desiccation stress. In addition, their expression levels responding to the water-stress have been analyzed in different tissues, and some subcellular IMMs located by means of tagging with GFP protein. Like other green photosynthetic organisms such as Arabidopsis (23 FKBPs and 29 CYPs) and Chlamydomonas (23 FKBs and 26 CYNs), rice has the highest number of IMM genes among organisms reported so far, suggesting that the numbers relate closely to photosynthesis. Classification of the putative FKBPs and CYPs in rice provides the information about their evolutional/functional significance when comparisons are drawn with the relatively well studied genera, Arabidopsis and Chlamydomonas. In addition, many of the genes upregulated by water stress offer the possibility of manipulating the stress responses in rice.
21087491	The orderly progression through mitosis is regulated by the Anaphase-Promoting Complex (APC), a large multiprotein E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets key cell-cycle regulators for destruction by the 26 S proteasome. The APC is composed of at least 11 subunits and associates with additional regulatory activators during mitosis and interphase cycles. Despite extensive research on APC and activator functions in the cell cycle, only a few components have been functionally characterized in plants. Here, we describe an in-depth search for APC subunits and activator genes in the Arabidopsis, rice and poplar genomes. Also, searches in other genomes that are not completely sequenced were performed. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that some APC subunits and activator genes have experienced gene duplication events in plants, in contrast to animals. Expression patterns of paralog subunits and activators in rice could indicate that this duplication, rather than complete redundancy, could reflect initial specialization steps. The absence of subunit APC7 from the genome of some green algae species and as well as from early metazoan lineages, could mean that APC7 is not required for APC function in unicellular organisms and it may be a result of duplication of another tetratricopeptide (TPR) subunit. Analyses of TPR evolution suggest that duplications of subunits started from the central domains. The increased complexity of the APC gene structure, tied to the diversification of expression paths, suggests that land plants developed sophisticated mechanisms of APC regulation to cope with the sedentary life style and its associated environmental exposures.
21087594	Mosquito-borne arboviruses are a significant health issue in the irrigation areas of south-eastern Australia. Fipronil, a pyrazole insecticide with strong activity against larval Culex species, was tested for its acute effects on Simocephalus elizabethae (Daphniidae) and Polypedilum nubiferum (Chironomidae), two non-target invertebrates associated with Australian rice field mosquito habitats. Technical and formulated fipronil were assessed in the presence or absence of particulate artificial diets in 48 h static bioassays. LC(50) values for neonate S. elizabethae ranged from 11.13 to 19.12 μgl(-1) whilst those for final instar P. nubiferum ranged from 0.89 to 2.18 μgl(-1). Feeding during exposure significantly reduced the susceptibility of P. nubiferum to both technical and formulated fipronil. The effect of feeding was less consistent in Simocephalus bioassays, where much less food was present. We investigated whether adsorption to unconsumed food particles may have limited fipronil bioavailability by using solid-phase microextraction and gas chromatography to measure the available fipronil from fed and unfed systems 24h after establishment. Differences between the systems were not significant (P>0.05). The significantly higher LC(50) values in the fed Polypedilum bioassays do not appear to be a consequence of reduced fipronil bioavailability. Observed differences in toxicity probably reflect increased stresses associated with food deprivation in the unfed bioassays. Our results support published data on the toxicity of fipronil to aquatic invertebrates which suggest that the use of this material as a mosquito larvicide may cause disruption to aquatic ecosystems.
21088895	Eighteen crossbred (Thai native x Anglo-Nubian) goats were chosen from a Suranaree University of Technology's farm on the basis of similar bodyweight (15.5 ± 3.5 kg). The goats were randomly allocated to three treatments in randomized complete block design. Each goat was given urea-treated rice straw as roughage plus the respective treatment diets. The diets were iso-nitrogenous and iso-energetic containing cassava pulp, molasses, urea, and commercial mineral and vitamin mix. The experimental treatments were (1) soybean meal (SBM), (2) partial substitution of SBM with Streblus aspe Lour foliage, or (3) partial substitution of SBM with Leucaena (Leucaena leucocephala) foliage. Nutrient intakes, ruminal characteristics (pH, ammonia nitrogen, and volatile fatty acids), nitrogen balances, and plasma urea nitrogen were not significantly different among treatments. The present results indicate that protein foliages from locally grown shrubs and trees can substitute imported feedstuffs concentrate (e.g., SBM) as protein supplement for goat production.
21089048	Proteins play major roles in most biological processes; as a consequence, protein expression levels are highly regulated. While extensive post-transcriptional, translational and protein degradation control clearly influence protein concentration and functionality, it is often thought that protein abundances are primarily determined by the abundances of the corresponding mRNAs. Hence surprisingly, a recent study showed that abundances of orthologous nematode and fly proteins correlate better than their corresponding mRNA abundances. We tested if this phenomenon is general by collecting and testing matching large-scale protein and mRNA expression data sets from seven different species: two bacteria, yeast, nematode, fly, human, and rice. We find that steady-state abundances of proteins show significantly higher correlation across these diverse phylogenetic taxa than the abundances of their corresponding mRNAs (p=0.0008, paired Wilcoxon). These data support the presence of strong selective pressure to maintain protein abundances during evolution, even when mRNA abundances diverge.
21090255	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) possesses a type III secretion system (T3 S), encoded by a hpa-hrp-hrc cluster, including hrpD6, to inject T3S effectors into plant cells to trigger hypersensitive response (HR) in nonhost tobacco and pathogenicity in susceptible host rice. However, it is unclear what roles of Xoo hrpD6 gene plays in HR in tobacco and in pathogenicity in rice. In this study, we constructed a deletion mutant of hrpD6 gene by using marker-exchange method. PCR and Southern blot analysis demonstrated that the hrpD6 gene was knocked out successfully. in planta assays indicated the hrpD6 mutant, delta PhrpD6, lost the ability to induce HR in tobacco, to trigger water-soaked symptoms in seedlings rice and to cause bacterial blight in adult rice. Importantly, the bacterial growth in rice tissues was tremendously reduced. Complementation assays confirmed that hrpD6 gene could restore HR induction in tobacco, pathogenicity and bacterial growth in rice to the mutant delta PhrpD6. Reverse transcriptional polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed that the expression of hrpD6 was not only induced by rice cells, but also controlled by hrpG and hrpX. Intriguyingly, the expression of hpal, encoding a harpin protein, was found to be dependent on hrpD6, implying that hrpD6 regulates the expression of hpal. Immunobloting assay confirmed that the mutation of hrpD6 affect the secretion of Hpal through T3S. The mutant lost the ability of triggering hypersensitive response in nonhost tobacco and pathogenicity in host rice is due to that hrpD6 regulates the expression of hpal gene and the mutation in hrpD6 affects the secretion of T3S effectors, like Hpa1, through T3SS. Our results provide molecular clues to understand whether hrpD6 is involved in the formation of T3S apparatus and in regulation of other hpa-hrp-hrc gene expression or not for HR induction in tobacco and pathogenicity in rice.
21090305	The performance of three organic carbon sources was assessed in terms of sulfate reduction and main metal removal, by using sewage sludge as the source of sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) and adding rice straw and ethanol with equal quantity. Results indicated that sewage sludge which contained certain amount of alkaline material could neutralize acidity of acid mine drainage(AMD) on the first day of experiment, elevating pH value from the initial 2.5 to around 5.4-6.3 and achieving suitable pH condition for SRB growth. Sewage sludge contained fewer biodegradable organic substance, reactive mixture with single sewage sludge showed the lowest sulfate reduction (65.9%). When the single sewage sludge was supplemented with rice straw, SRB reducing sulfate was enhanced (79.2%), because the degradation rate of rice straw was accelerated by the specific bacteria in sewage sludge, providing relatively abundant carbon source for SRB. Control experiment with ethanol was most effective in promoting sulfate reduction (97.9%). Metal removal efficiency in all three reactors was as high as 99% for copper, early copper removal was mainly attributed to the adsorption capacity of sewage sludge prior to SRB acclimation. It is feasible for using rice straw and sewage sludge as carbon sources for SRB treating acid mine drainage at a low cost, this may have significant implication for in situ bioremediation of mine environment.
21090317	By using venting method incubation experiment, we studied the ammonia volatilization and kinetics characteristics of uncoated slowed release compound fertilizer (SRF) under different soil water conditions and the growth and nitrogen utilization efficiency of rice in pot experiment. Results indicated that the ammonia volatilization of SRF under waterflooding reached the peak ahead of 3-4 days compared to the moist treatment. The peak and accumulation of ammonia volatilization in the waterflooding treatments were higher than those under the moist condition. SRF could significantly reduce total ammonia volatilization compared to the common compound fertilizer (CCF), reduced by 50.6% and 22.8% in the moist treatment and reduced by 24.2% and 10.4% in the waterflooding treatment,but the loss of ammonia volatilization of SRF was higher significantly than that of the coated fertilizer (CRF). Ammonia volatilization increased with the increasing of fertilizer application. The dynamics of ammonia volatilization of SRF could be quantitatively described with three equations: the first order kinetics equation, Elovich equation and parabola equation. Compared to moist condition, the biomass of rice plant in SRF, CCF and SRF treatments increased by 67.86%, 78.25% and 48.75%, and nitrogen utilization efficiency increased by 57.73%, 80.70% and 12.06% under waterflooding condition, respectively. Comparing with CCF, nitrogen utilization efficiency in SRF treatment improved by 59.10% and 10.40% under two soil moisture conditions. SRF could reduce ammonia volatilization and improve biomass and nitrogen utilization efficiency.
21090621	Flavonoids and carotenoids of pigmented rice (Oryza sativa L.), including five black cultivars and two red cultivars, from Korea were characterized to determine the diversity among the phytochemicals and to analyze the relationships among their contents. Black cultivars were higher in flavonoids and carotenoids than the red and white cultivars. The profiles of eight phytochemicals identified from the rice grains were subjected to principal component analysis (PCA) to evaluate the differences among cultivars. PCA could fully distinguish between these cultivars. The Heugjinjubyeo (BR-1) and Heugseolbyeo (BR-2) cultivars were separated from the others based on flavonoid and carotenoid concentrations. Flavonoid contents had a positive correlation with carotenoid contents among all rice grains. The BR-1 and BR-2 cultivars appear to be good candidates for future breeding programs because they have simultaneously high flavonoid and carotenoid contents.
21090680	In the present study, sufu, an oriental fermented product of soybeans, was prepared by ripening the tofu cubes in Aspergillus oryzae fermented rice-soybean koji mash for 16 days at 37 °C. The sufu product was further kept at room temperature for another 30 days. Examining the changes in the sugar content revealed that stachyose, raffinose, and sucrose contents of tofu and rice-soybean koji granules decreased while levels of glucose and fructose increased during the ripening period and after storage. Glucose was the most abundant sugar detected. Four organic acids, including oxalic, lactic, acetic, and citric acid, were detected in the sufu product and koji granules after ripening. Generally, the contents of these organic acid increased as the ripening period was extended. Among them, acetic acid was the most highly detected.
21091249	Cardiovascular disease is a serious public health problem; it is the first "cause of death" in Brazil and in developed countries. Thus, it is essential to search for alternative sources such as some functional foods to prevent and control the risks of this disease. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the lipidemic parameters in hypercholesterolemic rats fed diets containing black rice variety IAC 600 or unrefined rice. Adult male Wistar rats (Rattus norvegicus var. albinos) were used, weighing about 200-220 g. The animals were divided into four groups: the first received a control casein diet, the second received hypercholesterolemic diet, and the other two groups, after induction of hypercholesterolemia, received the test diets, the first containing 20% black rice and the second 20% unrefined, for 30 days. It was observed that diet containing black rice reduced the level of plasma cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density lipoprotein. For high-density lipoprotein values, the diet that provided an increase in the levels was the black rice. The diet containing black rice was more effective in controlling the lipidemia in rats compared with the whole rice diet.
21091295	The aim was to determine the influence of compositional alteration and processing on the digestibility/availability of nutrients and bioactive components [protein (IVPD), starch (IVSD), iron, calcium, polyphenols, flavonoids] in rice products. The compositional changes representing fortified foods in 'wafers' and 'noodles' were addition of iron, rice bran, onion and cabbage. The moisture content of wafer and noodles ranged from 4.1 to 4.8% and from 73.3 to 82.1%, respectively. Wafer control (73.9-75.9%) and noodle with iron and control (85.4-87.0%) showed the highest IVPD and IVSD. Addition of rice bran decreased nutrient digestibility. The control and iron-added products exhibited least and highest available iron (2.50-2.69% and 5.99-7.07%). Total and available bioactive components increased in proportion to added external source. Overall availability of all components was better in noodles than in wafers, indicating high moisture supported higher availability. In conclusion, it can be said that both composition of the food matrix and processing influenced the availability of analyzed components.
21091365	Several previous trials from Western population studies have showed that statins may help reduce blood pressure (BP). However, randomized clinical data is limited. Xuezhikang, a partially extract of red yeast rice, contains a family of naturally occurring statins, and has a marked impact on lipids, but it is unknown whether Xuezhikang has any effect on BP during long-term follow-up in the Chinese population. This is a post-hoc subgroup analysis of a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, parallel group clinical trial, Chinese Coronary Secondary Prevention Study (CCSPS). A total of 2704 hypertensive patients with previous myocardial infarction (MI) were assigned either to placebo (n = 1341) or to Xuezhikang (n = 1363) daily for an average of 4.5 years. The primary outcome was the unadjusted changes in mean arterial pressure (MAP) from baseline to 6 months. We also assessed systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and pulse pressure. Analysis of covariance was used to calculate the adjusted effects of treatment on changes in these outcomes at 6, 12, 24, and 48 months post-randomization, after controlling for potential confounders. This analysis included 2704/4870 (55.5%) hypertensive patients for whom BP was measured at baseline and at least one follow-up visit after randomization. Median duration of the follow-up was 4.5 years (54 months), and 25 patients (0.92%) were lost to the last follow-up because of adverse effects. The results showed that the unadjusted and adjusted changes in MAP, SBP, DBP, or pulse pressure from baseline were not significantly different for Xuezhikang or placebo recipients at 6, 12, 24, and 48 months after randomization. In this post-hoc subgroup analysis, we failed to demonstrate any significant reducing effects of Xuezhikang on BP in Chinese hypertensive patients with previous MI, suggesting that further prospective study on the effects of statins on BP would be needed, especially in high-risk patients.
21091695	The oxygen availability to plant tissues can vary strongly in time and space. To endure short- or long-term oxygen deprivation, plants evolved a series of metabolic and morphological adaptations that have been extensively studied. However, our knowledge of the molecular regulation of these processes is not as well understood. In this review, the recent findings on the molecular effectors that regulate the response of higher plants to oxygen deficiency are discussed. Although no direct oxygen sensor has been discovered in plants so far, mechanisms that perceive low-oxygen derived signals have been reported, involving different sets of transcription factors (TFs). The ERF (Ethylene Responsive Factor) family especially appears to play a crucial role in the determination of survival to reduced oxygen availability in Arabidopsis and rice. This class of TFs displays a broad range of targets, being involved in both the metabolic reprogramming and the morphological adaptations exploited by plants when subjected to low-oxygen conditions.
2109200
21092124	Widespread use of chromium (Cr) contaminated fields due to careless and inappropriate management practices of effluent discharge, mostly from industries related to metallurgy, electroplating, production of paints and pigments, tanning, and wood preservation elevates its concentration in surface soil and eventually into rice plants and grains. In spite of many previous studies having been conducted on the effects of chromium stress, the precise molecular mechanisms related to both the effects of chromium phytotoxicity, the defense reactions of plants against chromium exposure as well as translocation and accumulation in rice remain poorly understood. Detailed analysis of genome-wide transcriptome profiling in rice root is reported here, following Cr-plant interaction. Such studies are important for the identification of genes responsible for tolerance, accumulation and defense response in plants with respect to Cr stress. Rice root metabolome analysis was also carried out to relate differential transcriptome data to biological processes affected by Cr (VI) stress in rice. To check whether the Cr-specific motifs were indeed significantly over represented in the promoter regions of Cr-responsive genes, occurrence of these motifs in whole genome sequence was carried out. In the background of whole genome, the lift value for these 14 and 13 motifs was significantly high in the test dataset. Though no functional role has been assigned to any of the motifs, but all of these are present as promoter motifs in the Database of orthologus promoters. These findings clearly suggest that a complex network of regulatory pathways modulates Cr-response of rice. The integrated matrix of both transcriptome and metabolome data after suitable normalization and initial calculations provided us a visual picture of the correlations between components. Predominance of different motifs in the subsets of genes suggests the involvement of motif-specific transcription modulating proteins in Cr stress response of rice.
21092158	Degradation of the toxic compounds generated in the harsh pretreatment of lignocellulose is an inevitable step in reducing the toxin level for conducting practical enzymatic hydrolysis and ethanol fermentation processes. Various detoxification methods have been tried and many negative outcomes were found using these methods, such as the massive freshwater usage and wastewater generation, loss of the fine lignocellulose particles and fermentative sugars and incomplete removal of inhibitors. An alternate method, biodetoxification, which degrades the toxins as part of their normal metabolism, was considered a promising option for the removal of toxins without causing the above problems. A kerosene fungus strain, Amorphotheca resinae ZN1, was isolated from the microbial community growing on the pretreated corn stover material. The degradation of the toxins as well as the lignocelluloses-derived sugars was characterized in different ways, and the results show that A. resinae ZN1 utilized each of these toxins and sugars as the sole carbon sources efficiently and grew quickly on the toxins. It was found that the solid-state culture of A. resinae ZN1 on various pretreated lignocellulose feedstocks such as corn stover, wheat straw, rice straw, cotton stalk and rape straw degraded all kinds of toxins quickly and efficiently. The consequent simultaneous saccharification and ethanol fermentation was performed at the 30% (wt/wt) solid loading of the detoxified lignocellulosic feedstocks without a sterilization step, and the ethanol titer in the fermentation broth reached above 40 g/L using food crop residues as feedstocks. The advantages of the present biodetoxification by A. resinae ZN1 over the known detoxification methods include zero energy input, zero wastewater generation, complete toxin degradation, processing on solid pretreated material, no need for sterilization and a wide lignocellulose feedstock spectrum. These advantages make it possible for industrial applications with fast and efficient biodetoxification to remove toxins generated during intensive lignocellulose pretreatment.
21092221	Reductions in postprandial glycemia have been demonstrated previously with the addition of the novel viscous polysaccharide (NVP), PolyGlycopleX® (PGX®), to an OGTT or white bread. This study explores whether these reductions are sustained when NVP is added to a range of commonly consumed foods or incorporated into a breakfast cereal. Ten healthy subjects (4M, 6F; age 37.3 ± 3.6 y; BMI 23.8 ± 1.3 kg/m2), participated in an acute, randomized controlled trial. The glycemic response to cornflakes, rice, yogurt, and a frozen dinner with and without 5 g of NVP sprinkled onto the food was determined. In addition, 3 granolas with different levels of NVP and 3 control white breads and one white bread and milk were also consumed. All meals contained 50 g of available carbohydrate. Capillary blood samples were taken fasting and at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 min after the start of the meal. The glycemic index (GI) and the glycemic reduction index potential (GRIP) were calculated. The blood glucose concentrations at each time and the iAUC values were subjected to repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) examining for the effect of test meal. After demonstration of significant heterogeneity, differences between individual means was assessed using GLM ANOVA with Tukey test to adjust for multiple comparisons. Addition of NVP reduced blood glucose response irrespective of food or dose (p < 0.01). The GI of cornflakes, cornflakes+NVP, rice, rice+NVP, yogurt, yogurt+NVP, turkey dinner, and turkey dinner+NVP were 83 ± 8, 58 ± 7, 82 ± 8, 45 ± 4, 44 ± 4, 38 ± 3, 55 ± 5 and 41 ± 4, respectively. The GI of the control granola, and granolas with 2.5 and 5 g of NVP were 64 ± 6, 33 ± 5, and 22 ± 3 respectively. GRIP was 6.8 ± 0.9 units per/g of NVP. Sprinkling or incorporation of NVP into a variety of different foods is highly effective in reducing postprandial glycemia and lowering the GI of a food. NCT00935350.
21092384	We used a database approach in developing a dish-based, semi-quantitative FFQ for Korean diet and cancer research. Cancer-related dietary factors (CRDF) recognised in the scientific community and dietary intake data from the 2001 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey and the 2002 Korean National Nutrition Survey by Season were used. The list of dishes (n 993) was those reported to be consumed by individuals over 30 years of age during all four seasons. The resulting 112-dish list was selected using contribution analyses and variability analyses to detect between-person variation for CRDF and non-CRDF nutrients. Variations of each dish were grouped into one dish for the final list of 112 dishes, which were then linked to the nutrient database. The final 112 dish items consisted of nine Korean staple dishes, including rice and noodles, twenty-five soups and stews, fifty-four side dishes, nine beverages, nine fruit dishes and six alcoholic beverages. The percentage coverages of energy, protein, fat, carbohydrate and alcohol intake in the selected 112 dishes were 82·4, 76·4, 68·9, 86·0 and 99·8 %, respectively. Dietary exposure to cancer-related Korean dietary factors can be assessed by this new dish-based, semi-quantitative FFQ. This new instrument can calculate the intake of CRDF along with non-CRDF nutrient intake for cancer research.
21095003	Cyprinus carpio was exposed to imazethapyr and imazapic at laboratory and at field conditions. The laboratory experiment was carried out for 7 days and at rice field for 7, 30 and 90 days. Oxidative stress parameters and antioxidant profile were studied as well as metabolic parameters. After 7 days, brain AChE activity increases in laboratory and field, but in muscle, reduction was observed only in laboratory. At the same period, brain and muscle TBARS and liver CAT increase in the laboratory. Metabolic parameters showed changes in both conditions and exposure periods. After 30 days in rice field, brain AChE activity decreases and in muscle it was enhanced. After 90 days in field, only muscle AChE activity was reduced. The disorders in oxidative stress parameters and metabolism remained, indicating mainly a protein catabolism. This study pointed out short- and long-term effects of rice herbicides at environmentally relevant concentrations on toxicological parameters in tissues of C. carpio.
21095057	Water-soluble dietary fibers from apple peels and water-insoluble dietary fibers from wheat bran and soybean-seed hull were used to evaluate their binding capacities for four toxic elements (Pb, Hg, Cd, and As), lard, cholesterol, and bile acids. The water-soluble dietary fibers showed a higher binding capacity for three toxic cations, cholesterol, and sodium cholate; and a lower binding capacity for lard, compared to the water-insoluble ones. A mixture of the dietary fibers from all samples - apple peels, wheat bran, and soybean-seed hull - in the ratio 2:4:4 (w/w) significantly increased the binding capacity of water-insoluble dietary fibers for the three toxic cations, cholesterol, and sodium cholate; moreover, the mixture could lower the concentrations of Pb(2+) and Cd(+) in the tested solutions to levels lower than those occurring in rice and vegetables grown in polluted soils. However, all the tested fibers showed a low binding capacity for the toxic anion, AsO(3)(3-).
21095119	The present study verified an applicable technology of xylitol bioconversion as part of the integration of co-product generation within second-generation bioethanol processes. A newly isolated yeast strain, Candida tropicalis JH030, was shown to have a capacity for xylitol production from hemicellulosic hydrolysate without detoxification. The yeast gives a promising xylitol yield of 0.71 g(p) g(s)(-1) from non-detoxified rice straw hydrolysate that had been prepared by the dilute acid pretreatment under severe conditions. The yeast's capacity was also found to be practicable with various other raw materials, such as sugarcane bagasse, silvergrass, napiergrass and pineapple peel. The lack of a need to hydrolysate detoxification enhances the potential of this newly isolated yeast for xylitol production and this, in turn, has the capacity to improve economics of lignocellulosic ethanol production.
21097059	In this work we present a new electromechanical cardiac myocyte model tailored to reproduce the electrical and force generating activities of human ventricular myocytes. The model was created by coupling two existing models: the ten Tusscher electrophysiology model and the Rice myofilament mechanics model. The parameters of the new model were adjusted in order to replicate the available experimental data for human myocytes. The main challenges in this work were the strong feedbacks between the models, the high non-linearity of the models and mainly the lack of human data to make the adjustments.
21097783	Correlations of gene-to-gene co-expression and metabolite-to-metabolite co-accumulation calculated from large amounts of transcriptome and metabolome data are useful for uncovering unknown functions of genes, functional diversities of gene family members and regulatory mechanisms of metabolic pathway flows. Many databases and tools are available to interpret quantitative transcriptome and metabolome data, but there are only limited ones that connect correlation data to biological knowledge and can be utilized to find biological significance of it. We report here a new metabolic pathway database, KaPPA-View4 (http://kpv.kazusa.or.jp/kpv4/), which is able to overlay gene-to-gene and/or metabolite-to-metabolite relationships as curves on a metabolic pathway map, or on a combination of up to four maps. This representation would help to discover, for example, novel functions of a transcription factor that regulates genes on a metabolic pathway. Pathway maps of the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and maps generated from their gene classifications are available at KaPPA-View4 KEGG version (http://kpv.kazusa.or.jp/kpv4-kegg/). At present, gene co-expression data from the databases ATTED-II, COXPRESdb, CoP and MiBASE for human, mouse, rat, Arabidopsis, rice, tomato and other plants are available.
21097897	Proteins abundant in seeds during the late stages of development, late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins, are associated with desiccation tolerance. More than 100 of the group I LEA genes, also termed Em genes, have been identified from plants, bacteria and animals. The wide distribution indicates the functional importance of these genes. In the present study, we characterized a novel Em-like gene, OsLEA1a of rice (Oryza sativa). The encoded OsLEA1a protein has an N-terminal sequence similar to that of other plant Em proteins but lacks a 20-mer motif that is the most significant feature of typical Em proteins. The location of the sole intron indicates that the second exon of OsLEA1a is the mutated product of a typical Em gene. Transcriptome analysis revealed OsLEA1a mainly expressed in embryos, with no or only a few transcripts in osmotic stress-treated vegetative tissues. Structural analysis revealed that the OsLEA1a protein adopts high amounts of disordered conformations in solution and undergoes desiccation-induced conformational changes. Macromolecular interaction studies revealed that OsLEA1a protein interacts with non-reducing sugars and phospholipids but not poly-l-lysine. Thus, although the OsLEA1a protein lost its 20-mer motif, it is still involved in the formation of bioglasses with non-reducing sugars or plasma membrane. However, the protein does not function as a chaperone as do other groups of hydrophilic LEA proteins. The orthologs of the OsLEA1a gene had been identified from various grasses but not in dicot plants. Genetic analysis indicated that rice OsLEA1a locates at a 193 kb segment in chromosome 1 and is conserved in several published cereal genomes. Thus, the ancestor of Em-like genes might have evolved after the divergence of monocot plants.
21097947	Many wetland species form aerenchyma and a barrier to radial O(2) loss (ROL) in roots. These features enhance internal O(2) diffusion to the root apex. Barrier formation in rice is induced by growth in stagnant solution, but knowledge of the dynamics of barrier induction and early anatomical changes was lacking. ROL barrier induction in short and long roots of rice (Oryza sativa L. 'Nipponbare') was assessed using cylindrical root-sleeving O(2) electrodes and methylene blue indicator dye for O(2) leakage. Aerenchyma formation was also monitored in root cross-sections. Microstructure of hypodermal/exodermal layers was observed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). In stagnant medium, barrier to ROL formation commenced in long adventitious roots within a few hours and the barrier was well formed within 24 h. By contrast, barrier formation took longer than 48 h in short roots. The timing of enhancement of aerenchyma formation was the same in short and long roots. Comparison of ROL data and subsequent methylene blue staining determined the apparent ROL threshold for the dye method, and the dye method confirmed that barrier induction was faster for long roots than for short roots. Barrier formation might be related to deposition of new electron-dense materials in the cell walls at the peripheral side of the exodermis. Histochemical staining indicated suberin depositions were enhanced prior to increases in lignin. As root length affected formation of the barrier to ROL, but not aerenchyma, these two acclimations are differentially regulated in roots of rice. Moreover, ROL barrier induction occurred before histochemically detectable changes in putative suberin and lignin deposits could be seen, whereas TEM showed deposition of new electron-dense materials in exodermal cell walls, so structural changes required for barrier functioning appear to be more subtle than previously described.
21098733	To investigate gibberellin (GA) signaling using the rice (Oryza sativa) GA receptor GIBBERELLIN-INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) mutant gid1-8, we isolated a suppressor mutant, Suppressor of gid1-1 (Sgd-1). Sgd-1 is an intragenic mutant containing the original gid1-8 mutation (L45F) and an additional amino acid substitution (P99S) in the loop region. GID1(P99S) interacts with the rice DELLA protein SLENDER RICE1 (SLR1), even in the absence of GA. Substitution of the 99th Pro with other amino acids revealed that substitution with Ala (P99A) caused the highest level of GA-independent interaction. Physicochemical analysis using surface plasmon resonance revealed that GID1(P99A) has smaller K(a) (association) and K(d) (dissociation) values for GA(4) than does wild-type GID1. This suggests that the GID1(P99A) lid is at least partially closed, resulting in both GA-independent and GA-hypersensitive interactions with SLR1. One of the three Arabidopsis thaliana GID1s, At GID1b, can also interact with DELLA proteins in the absence of GA, so we investigated whether GA-independent interaction of At GID1b depends on a mechanism similar to that of rice GID1(P99A). Substitution of the loop region or a few amino acids of At GID1b with those of At GID1a diminished its GA-independent interaction with GAI while maintaining the GA-dependent interaction. Soybean (Glycine max) and Brassica napus also have GID1s similar to At GID1b, indicating that these unique GID1s occur in various dicots and may have important functions in these plants.
21098734	The rice (Oryza sativa) gene xa13 is a recessive resistance allele of Os-8N3, a member of the NODULIN3 (N3) gene family, located on rice chromosome 8. Os-8N3 is a susceptibility (S) gene for Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight, and the recessive allele is defeated by strains of the pathogen producing any one of the type III effectors AvrXa7, PthXo2, or PthXo3, which are all members of the transcription activator-like (TAL) effector family. Both AvrXa7 and PthXo3 induce the expression of a second member of the N3 gene family, here named Os-11N3. Insertional mutagenesis or RNA-mediated silencing of Os-11N3 resulted in plants with loss of susceptibility specifically to strains of X. oryzae pv oryzae dependent on AvrXa7 or PthXo3 for virulence. We further show that AvrXa7 drives expression of Os-11N3 and that AvrXa7 interacts and binds specifically to an effector binding element within the Os-11N3 promoter, lending support to the predictive models for TAL effector binding specificity. The result indicates that variations in the TAL effector repetitive domains are driven by selection to overcome both dominant and recessive forms of resistance to bacterial blight in rice. The finding that Os-8N3 and Os-11N3 encode closely related proteins also provides evidence that N3 proteins have a specific function in facilitating bacterial blight disease.
21099045	We quantitatively evaluated the factors that affect the concentrations of rice-farming pesticides (an herbicide and a fungicide) in river water by a sensitivity analysis using a diffuse pollution hydrologic model. Pesticide degradation and adsorption in paddy soil affected concentrations of the herbicide pretilachlor but did not affect concentrations of the fungicide isoprothiolane. We attributed this difference to the timing of pesticide application in relation to irrigation and drainage of the rice paddy fields. The herbicide was applied more than a month before water drainage of the fields and runoff was gradual over a long period of time, whereas the fungicide was applied shortly before drainage and runoff was rapid. However, the effects of degradability-in-water on the herbicide and fungicide concentrations were similar, with concentrations decreasing only when the rate constant of degradation in water was large. We also evaluated the effects of intermittent irrigation methods (irrigation/artificial drainage or irrigation/percolation) on pesticide concentrations in river water. The runoff of the fungicide, which is applied near or in the period of intermittent irrigation, notably decreased when the method of irrigation/artificial drainage was changed to irrigation/percolation. In a sensitivity analysis evaluating the synergy effect of degradation and adsorbability in soil, the degradation rate constant in soil greatly affected pesticide concentration when the adsorption coefficient was small but did not affect pesticide concentration when the adsorption coefficient was large. The pesticide concentration in the river water substantially decreased when either or both the degradation rate constant in soil and adsorption coefficient was large.
21104337	The effect of cerium on mitochondria isolated from hybrid rice Shanyou 63 (Oryza sativa L) was investigated. Through in vivo culture, low dose Ce3+ promoted, but higher dose Ce3+, restrained mitochondrial heat production. However, through vitro incubation, Ce3+ showed only inhibitory action on mitochondrial energy turnover, the concentration required for 50% inhibition being 46.7 μM. In addition, Ce3+, like Ca2+, induced rice mitochondrial swelling and decreased membrane potential (△ψ), which was inhibited by the specific permeability transition inhibitor cyclosporine A (CsA). The induction approached a constant level while mitochondrial metabolism was fully prevented by Ce3+. These results demonstrated that cerium influenced rice mitochondria in vivo and in vitro via different action pathways, and the latter involved the opening of rice mitochondrial permeability.
21105392	Boehm titration method was used to analyze functional groups on cell surface of rice husk ash burned at low temperature in the present paper. Effects of initial pH value and temperature on Cr(VI) adsorption were studied, adsorption capacity was tested with the help of kinetic models and adsorption isotherms, instruments of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy(FTIR) and scanning electron microscope (SEM) were used to check characteristics and adsorption mechanism of Cr(VI). The results indicated that optimal removing rate was achieved at initial pH value 5, and pH values of aqueous solution changed little be fore and after adsorption process. The adsorbent of rice husk ash could remove Cr(VI) effectively, and the maximum removing rate could be 95% with Cr(VI) concentration 20 mg x L(-1) and achieve 1-2 level of state standard(GB8978-1996). The adsorption process fits pseudo-second-order kinetic model and Langmuir isotherm better, the maximum adsorption capacity of Cr(VI) was 3.2776 mg x g(-1). Results of FTIR showed that amide II band, Si--O--Si, O--Si--O were important for Cr(VI) removal. SEM micrographs revealed that series of needle-shaped precipitation appeared on cell surface, and inorganic precipitation mechanism and redox mechanism might work in the test. As a kind of low cost adsorbent, rice husk ash can be applied to remove heavy metals in environment with great potential.
21105928	Rice glutelins are synthesized at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) as precursors (pro-glutelins), and are transported to protein storage vacuoles, where they are processed into mature proteins. The molecular basis of this process is largely unknown. Here, we report the isolation of a rice mutant, gpa1, that accumulates 57 kDa pro-glutelins in seeds and whose endosperm has a floury appearance. Transmission electron microscopy analysis showed that the gpa1 endosperm cells have an enlarged ER lumen and a smaller protein body II (PBII), and accumulated three types of newly generated subcellular structures. Moreover, a proportion of glutelins in the gpa1 endosperm cells were not delivered to PBII, and instead were mis-targeted to two of the newly generated structures or secreted. The gene corresponding to the gpa1 mutation was found to be OsRab5a, which encodes a small GTPase. In Arabidopsis protoplasts, OsRab5a protein was found to co-localize predominantly with AtVSR2, a molecular marker for the pre-vacuolar compartments (PVC). We conclude that OsRab5a plays an essential role in trafficking of storage protein to PBII, possibly as part of its function in organizing the endomembrane system in developing endosperm cells of rice.
21106003	High-resolution melting (HRM) analysis relies on the use of fluorescent dyes, such as LCGreen, ResoLight, and SYTO9, which bind in a saturated manner to the double-stranded DNAs. These dyes are expensive in use and may not be affordable when dealing with a large quantity of samples. EvaGreen is a much cheaper DNA helix intercalating dye and has been used in quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and post-PCR DNA melt curve analysis. Here we report on the development of an EvaGreen-based HRM analysis and its performance, in comparison with the popular LCGreen-based HRM analysis, in detection of DNA polymorphism in plants. We found that various polymorphisms ranged from single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to Indels were equally detected by using EvaGreen- or LCGreen-based HRM. EvaGreen dye was sensitive enough in discovery of SNPs in fivefold pooled samples. Using this economical dye we successfully identified multiple novel mutant alleles of Gln1-3 gene, which produces a cytosolic glutamine synthetase isoenzyme (GS1), in a maize ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-mutagenized library, and genotyped rice mapping populations with SNP markers. The current results suggest that EvaGreen is a promising dye for HRM analysis for its ease to use and cost effectiveness.
21106006	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are essential hormones for growth and development of plant. In rice, BRs regulate multiple developmental processes and affect many important traits such as height, leaf angle, fertility and seed filling. We identified brassinosteroid-regulated proteins in rice using proteomic approaches and performed functional analysis of some BR-regulated proteins by overexpression experiments. Using two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2-D DIGE) followed by protein identification by mass spectrometry, we compared proteomic differences in the shoots and roots of the BR-insensitive mutant d61-4 and BR-deficient mutant brd1-3. We identified a large number of proteins differentially expressed in the mutants compared with wild type control. These include a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein (OsGRP1) and a DREPP2 protein, which showed reduced levels in the BR mutants. Overexpression of these two proteins partially suppressed the dwarf phenotype of the Arabidopsis BR-insensitive mutant bri1-5. In contrast to the reduced protein level, the RNA level of OsGRP1 was not significantly affected in the BR mutants or by BR treatment, suggesting BR regulation of OsGRP1 at the posttranslational level. This study identifies many BR-regulated proteins and demonstrates that OsGRP1 functions downstream in the BR signal transduction pathway to promote cell expansion.
21106056	Arabidopsis thaliana is clearly established as the model plant species. Given the ever-growing demand for food, there is a need to translate the knowledge learned in Arabidopsis to agronomically important species, such as rice (Oryza sativa). To gain a comparative insight into the similarities and differences into how organs are built and how plants respond to stress, the transcriptomes of Arabidopsis and rice were compared at the level of gene orthology and functional categorisation. Organ specific transcripts in rice and Arabidopsis display less overlap in terms of gene orthology compared to the orthology observed between both genomes. Although greater overlap in terms of functional classification was observed between root specific transcripts in rice and Arabidopsis, this did not extend to flower, leaf or seed specific transcripts. In contrast, the overall abiotic stress response transcriptome displayed a significantly greater overlap in terms of gene orthology compared to the orthology observed between both genomes. However, ~50% or less of these orthologues responded in a similar manner in both species. In fact, under cold and heat treatments as many or more orthologous genes responded in an opposite manner or were unchanged in one species compared to the other. Examples of transcripts that responded oppositely include several genes encoding proteins involved in stress and redox responses and non-symbiotic hemoglobins that play central roles in stress signalling pathways. The differences observed in the abiotic transcriptomes were mirrored in the presence of cis-acting regulatory elements in the promoter regions of stress responsive genes and the transcription factors that potentially bind these regulatory elements. Thus, both the abiotic transcriptome and its regulation differ between rice and Arabidopsis. These results reveal significant divergence between Arabidopsis and rice, in terms of the abiotic stress response and its regulation. Both plants are shown to employ unique combinations of genes to achieve growth and stress responses. Comparison of these networks provides a more rational approach to translational studies that is based on the response observed in these two diverse plant models.
21106060	Genetic populations provide the basis for a wide range of genetic and genomic studies and have been widely used in genetic mapping, gene discovery and genomics-assisted breeding. Chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) are the most powerful tools for the detection and precise mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs), for the analysis of complex traits in plant molecular genetics. In this study, a wide population consisting of 128 CSSLs was developed, derived from the crossing and back-crossing of two sequenced rice cultivars: 9311, an elite indica cultivar as the recipient and Nipponbare, a japonica cultivar as the donor. First, a physical map of the 128 CSSLs was constructed on the basis of estimates of the lengths and locations of the substituted chromosome segments using 254 PCR-based molecular markers. From this map, the total size of the 142 substituted segments in the population was 882.2 Mb, was 2.37 times that of the rice genome. Second, every CSSL underwent high-throughput genotyping by whole-genome re-sequencing with a 0.13× genome sequence, and an ultrahigh-quality physical map was constructed. This sequencing-based physical map indicated that 117 new segments were detected; almost all were shorter than 3 Mb and were not apparent in the molecular marker map. Furthermore, relative to the molecular marker-based map, the sequencing-based map yielded more precise recombination breakpoint determination and greater accuracy of the lengths of the substituted segments, and provided more accurate background information. Third, using the 128 CSSLs combined with the bin-map converted from the sequencing-based physical map, a multiple linear regression QTL analysis mapped nine QTLs, which explained 89.50% of the phenotypic variance for culm length. A large-effect QTL was located in a 791,655 bp region that contained the rice 'green revolution' gene. The present results demonstrated that high throughput genotyped CSSLs combine the advantages of an ultrahigh-quality physical map with high mapping accuracy, thus being of great potential value for gene discovery and genetic mapping. These CSSLs may provide powerful tools for future whole genome large-scale gene discovery in rice and offer foundations enabling the development of superior rice varieties.
21106061	Variation of gene number among species indicates that there is a general process of new gene origination. One of the major mechanism providing raw materials for the origin of new genes is gene duplication. Retroposition, as a special type of gene duplication- the RNA-based duplication, has been found to play an important role in new gene evolution in mammals and plants, but little is known about the process in the teleostei genome. Here we screened the zebrafish genome for identification of retrocopies and new chimerical retrogenes and investigated their origination and evolution. We identified 652 retrocopies, of which 440 are intact retrogenes and 212 are pseudogenes. Retrocopies have long been considered evolutionary dead ends without functional significance due to the presumption that retrocopies lack the regulatory element needed for expression. However, 437 transcribed retrocopies were identified from all of the retrocopies. This discovery combined with the substitution analysis suggested that the majority of all retrocopies are subject to negative selection, indicating that most of the retrocopies may be functional retrogenes. Moreover, we found that 95 chimerical retrogenes had recruited new sequences from neighboring genomic regions that formed de novo splice sites, thus generating new intron-containing chimeric genes. Based on our analysis of 38 pairs of orthologs between Cyprinus carpio and Danio rerio, we found that the synonymous substitution rate of zebrafish genes is 4.13×10⁻⁹ substitution per silent site per year. We also found 10 chimerical retrogenes that were created in the last 10 million years, which is 7.14 times the rate of 0.14 chimerical retrogenes per million years in the primate lineage toward human and 6.25 times the rate of 0.16 chimerical genes per million years in Drosophila. This is among the most rapid rates of generation of chimerical genes, just next to the rice. There is compelling evidence that much of the extensive transcriptional activity of retrogenes does not represent transcriptional "noise" but indicates the functionality of these retrogenes. Our results indicate that retroposition created a large amount of new genes in the zebrafish genome, which has contributed significantly to the evolution of the fish genome.
21106132	The aim of the present study was to examine the association between dietary patterns and weight change prospectively. We followed up 1231 adults aged 20 years and older (mean age 49·3 years) from 2002 to 2007. Food intake was assessed at baseline by an FFQ. Factor analysis was used to identify dietary patterns. Nutrient intake was measured by food weighing plus consecutive individual 3 d food records. Body weight and height were measured. The mean 5-year weight gain among all participants was 0·8 (sd 4·7) kg. The mean weight changes across quartiles of the 'traditional' pattern (rice, fresh vegetables, pork and wheat flour) were 2·0, 0·6, 0·6 and 0·0 kg. The corresponding values were 0·4, 0·5, 0·7 and 1·6 kg across quartiles of the 'vegetable-rich' pattern. No significant association between the 'macho' dietary pattern (meat and alcohol), the 'sweet tooth' pattern (drinks and cake) and weight gain was found. In multivariate linear regression, using the first quartile as the reference, participants in the highest quartile of the 'traditional' pattern had a β of - 2·18 (95 % CI - 2·91, - 1·45) for weight gain. However, the β from weight change of the highest quartile of the 'vegetable-rich' pattern was 1·00 (95 % CI 0·25, 1·74). In conclusion, the 'traditional' dietary pattern was negatively and the 'vegetable-rich' pattern was positively associated with weight gain in Chinese adults.
21106719	Double fertilization in flowering plants refers to a process in which two sperm cells, carried by the pollen tube, fertilize both the egg and the central cell after their release into a synergid cell of the female gametophyte. The molecular processes by which the female gametophytic cells express their unique functions during fertilization are not well understood. Genes expressed in egg and synergid cells might be important for multiple stages of the plant reproductive process. Here, we profiled genome-wide gene expression in egg and synergid cells in rice (Oryza sativa), a model monocot, using a nonenzymatic cell isolation technique. We found that the expression profiles of the egg and synergid cells were already specified at the micropylar end of the female gametophyte during the short developmental period that comprises the three consecutive mitotic nuclear divisions after megaspore generation. In addition, we identified a large number of genes expressed in the rice egg and synergid cells and characterized these genes using Gene Ontology analysis. The analysis suggested that epigenetic and posttranscriptional regulatory mechanisms are involved in the specification and/or maintenance of these cells. Comparisons between the rice profiles and reported Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) profiles revealed that genes enriched in the egg/synergid cell of rice were distinct from those in Arabidopsis.
21106933	The concentration of LDL cholesterol in plasma is strongly influenced by the amount and type of lipid in the diet. Our studies have shown that positional changes in the fatty acids in blended oil introduced using lipase-catalyzed interesterification differentially modulate circulating LDL levels in rats compared with those observed in rats given a physical blend of oils. To investigate the molecular basis of these differences, transcriptional profiling of genes involved in cholesterol homeostasis was studied after feeding rats with a semipurified diet containing 10% fat from native oils; coconut oil (CNO), rice bran oil (RBO), or sesame oil (SESO); blended (B); CNO+RBO(B) or CNO+SESO(B) and interesterified oil (I); CNO+RBO(I) or CNO+SESO(I) for 60 d. Hepatic LDL receptor (LDL-R) expression significantly increased in rats fed interesterified oils by 100-200% compared with rats fed blended oils and by 400-500% compared with rats fed CNO. Positional alteration in fatty acids of oils used in the diet induced changes in LDL-R expression, which was accompanied by parallel changes in cholesterol-7α-hydroxylase (CYP7A1) and SREBP-2 genes. This suggested that not only the fatty acid type but also its position in the TG of dietary lipids play an important role in maintaining plasma cholesterol levels by suitably modulating gene expression for LDL-R in rat liver.
21107017	Many viruses display affinity for polysaccharides presented at the surface of target cells with high biological relevance for virus attachment and entry. This raises the possibility of the application of polysaccharides, particularly their sulfated modifications, in studies of receptor binding and also in antiviral therapy. In this study, we analysed various sulfated glucans, generated from a commercial preparation of rice bran using chemical, chromatographic, spectroscopic and virological methods. A number of sulfated polysaccharides with different charge densities were generated from a commercial rice bran preparation by aqueous extraction followed by chemical sulfation. The backbone of the type of glucans identified was made up mainly of α-(1→4)-linked glucopyranosyl residues. Sulfate groups were found to be located at C6 and partly at C2 or C3 of glucopyranosyl residues. Sulfation appeared to be very important for anti-cytomegaloviral activity, as desulfation experiments demonstrated an impairment of activity. Using an established cytomegalovirus replication assay with primary human fibroblasts, data demonstrated that the anti-cytomegaloviral effect was determined primarily at the stage of viral entry. Sulfated glucans derived from rice bran possess very promising characteristics for their potential use as entry-inhibiting anti-cytomegaloviral agents.
21107422	Sugar efflux transporters are essential for the maintenance of animal blood glucose levels, plant nectar production, and plant seed and pollen development. Despite broad biological importance, the identity of sugar efflux transporters has remained elusive. Using optical glucose sensors, we identified a new class of sugar transporters, named SWEETs, and show that at least six out of seventeen Arabidopsis, two out of over twenty rice and two out of seven homologues in Caenorhabditis elegans, and the single copy human protein, mediate glucose transport. Arabidopsis SWEET8 is essential for pollen viability, and the rice homologues SWEET11 and SWEET14 are specifically exploited by bacterial pathogens for virulence by means of direct binding of a bacterial effector to the SWEET promoter. Bacterial symbionts and fungal and bacterial pathogens induce the expression of different SWEET genes, indicating that the sugar efflux function of SWEET transporters is probably targeted by pathogens and symbionts for nutritional gain. The metazoan homologues may be involved in sugar efflux from intestinal, liver, epididymis and mammary cells.
21107519	Most existing statistical methods for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTL) are not suitable for analyzing survival traits with a skewed distribution and censoring mechanism. As a result, researchers incorporate parametric and semi-parametric models of survival analysis into the framework of the interval mapping for QTL controlling survival traits. In survival analysis, accelerated failure time (AFT) model is considered as a de facto standard and fundamental model for data analysis. Based on AFT model, we propose a parametric approach for mapping survival traits using the EM algorithm to obtain the maximum likelihood estimates of the parameters. Also, with Bayesian information criterion (BIC) as a model selection criterion, an optimal mapping model is constructed by choosing specific error distributions with maximum likelihood and parsimonious parameters. Two real datasets were analyzed by our proposed method for illustration. The results show that among the five commonly used survival distributions, Weibull distribution is the optimal survival function for mapping of heading time in rice, while Log-logistic distribution is the optimal one for hyperoxic acute lung injury.
21108023	In this study, we cloned a cDNA for the K+ channel β subunit from the halophyte Puccinellia tenuiflora and named it KPutB1. KPutB1 was preferentially expressed in the roots and was transiently induced by K+-starvation, salt stress, or the combination of both stresses. By yeast two-hybrid assay, we demonstrated that KPutB1 interacts with PutAKT1, α subunit of an AKT1-type K+ channel of P. tenuiflora. The functional relevance of this interaction on K+-nutrition was investigated by co-expression experiments in yeast under various ionic conditions, and K+ channel α and β subunit homologues from rice (OsAKT1 and KOB1, respectively) were included for comparison. Yeast co-expressing PutAKT1 and the β subunits (KPutB1 and KOB1) had better growth and higher K+-uptake ability than yeast expressing PutAKT1 alone. In contrast, yeast co-expressing the β subunits (KPutB1 and KOB1) with OsAKT1 had slower growth and lower K+ uptake than yeast expressing OsAKT1 alone. Arabidopsis plants over-expressing the K+ channel β subunit of P. tenuiflora or rice showed increased shoot K+ content and decreased root Na+ content under control, 75 mM NaCl, and K+-starvation stress conditions. These results suggest that ectopic expression of the K+ channel β subunit could alter K+ and Na+ homeostasis in plants.
21108092	The aim of this study was to apply RP-HPLC/ESI-ITMS and RP-HPLC/ESI-TOFMS to investigate and characterise six new higher molecular weight fumonisins (three pairs of isomers) extracted from a Fusarium verticillioides-infected solid rice culture. The ITMS and ITMS² spectra clearly indicated the m/z values (960, 984 and 986) of the protonated molecules and the FB₁ toxin-like structures of these compounds, respectively. Moreover, the data evaluation software of the TOFMS equipment unambiguously demonstrated the exact masses of the protonated molecules and the suggested empirical formulae (C₅₀H₈₉NO₁₆, C₅₂H₈₉NO₁₆ and C₅₂H₉₁NO₁₆) of the new fumonisins, with mass accuracy in the range between 0.1 and -1.1 ppm. Subtraction of the empirical formula of FB₁ toxin (C₃₄H₅₉NO₁₅) from these formulae and correction for the mass of water split-off from the fumonisin molecule during ester formation resulted in the empirical formulae of the fumonisin backbone esterifying agents (fatty acids): C₁₆H₃₂O₂ (palmitic acid, PA), C₁₈H₃₂O₂ (linoleic acid, LA) and C₁₈H₃₄O₂ (oleic acid, OA). We denoted the new compounds as esterified FB₁ (EFB₁) toxins, with the suggested names EFB₁ PA, iso-EFB₁ PA, EFB₁ LA, iso-EFB₁ LA, EFB₁ OA and iso-EFB₁ OA. The total amount of these new compounds comprised 0.1% of the FB₁ concentration, which may be rated as significant when it is considered that these new components are significantly more apolar than earlier-described fumonisins, and their uptake into and toxicity elicited in the various tissues of living organisms may therefore also be significantly different from those of other fumonisins.
21108683	A comparative study among Korean native cow (Hanwoo), Holstein dairy cow, Korean native goat and crossbred sheep on the population and marker concentration of ruminal microbes, the activities of carboxymethylcellulase (CMCase), xylanase and amylase, and in situ dry matter (DM) degradability were conducted. Twelve ruminally cannulated animals, three of each species, were used. Animals were fed the same diet containing 40% formula feed and 60% rice straw at the level of 2.5% of body weight. Total viable microbial populations in the rumen fluid were significantly (P < 0.01) greater for bacteria and fungi in goat than those of Holstein. The protozoan population among ruminant species was the reverse from that of bacteria. The concentrations of 2,6-diaminopimelic acid and chitin as markers for bacteria and fungi in the rumen fluid, respectively, were highest in goat, which is in accordance with the above population data. The concentration of aminoethylphosphonic acid as marker of protozoa was highest in Hanwoo and lowest in sheep (P < 0.01). Goat had the highest (P < 0.01) activities of all the enzymes investigated among ruminants. In situ effective degradation of the DM of rice straw was approximately 19% higher in the rumen of goat compared with other animals.
21110131	Spontaneous necrotic lesions were found in a lesion mimic mutant brown leaf spot 2 (bl2) without pathogenic infection. Small spots in the seedlings appeared at the four leaves stage and gradually grew into a large round and black area with a gray center on the leaf surfaces. Lower growth habit and lower agronomic trait values with reduced stature, tiller, and panicle number, as well as lower yield potential were noted in the mutants relative to the trait values of the wild-type plants. Microscopic analysis revealed that mesophyll chloroplast was severely damaged or absent in the spotted area of the mutant leaves. Total chlorophyll content, hydrogen peroxide level, and catalase activity were increased at up to 45 days after germination and were dropped at 60 d in the mutant leaves. However, the total protein contents were reduced slightly with a growth period of up to 45 days and were increased at 60 days after germination. A gradual increment of the total ascorbic acid contents in the mutants were observed with advanced plant age, but increased until 45 days and dropped comparatively at 60 days in the wild-type leaves. Increased gene transcriptions of OsPDI and OsGPX1 were noted in the spotted leaves as compared to the non-spotted leaves of the mutant and wild-type leaves, whereas transcripts of OsTPX were transcribed at lower levels in the spotted leaves as compared to the non-spotted leaves. The genetic nature of the bl2 mutant indicated that the F(1) plants evidenced the wild-type phenotype and that bl2 was governed by a single recessive gene.
21112065	Tryptophan-derived secondary metabolites, including serotonin and its hydroxycinnamic acid amides, markedly accumulate in rice leaves in response to pathogen attack. These compounds have been implicated in the physical defense system against pathogen invasion by being deposited in cell walls. Serotonin is biosynthesized from tryptophan via tryptamine, and tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC) catalyzes the first committed reaction. In this study, (S)-α-(fluoromethyl)tryptophan (S-αFMT) was utilized to investigate the effects of the inhibition of TDC on the defense responses of rice leaves. S-αFMT, enantiospecifically synthesized from L-tryptophan, effectively inhibited TDC activity extracted from rice leaves infected by Bipolaris oryzae. The inhibition rate increased dependently on the incubation time, indicating that S-αFMT served as a suicide substrate. Treatment of rice seedlings with S-αFMT suppressed accumulation of serotonin, tryptamine, and hydroxycinnamic acid amides of serotonin in a dose-dependent manner in B. oryzae-inoculated leaves. The lesions formed on seedlings treated with S-αFMT lacked deposition of brown materials, and those leaves were severely damaged in comparison with leaves without S-αFMT treatment. Administrating tryptamine to S-αFMT-treated leaves restored accumulation of tryptophan-derived secondary metabolites as well as deposition of brown material. In addition, tryptamine administration reduced damage caused by fungal infection. Accordingly, the accumulation of tryptophan-derived secondary metabolites was suggested to be part of the effective defense mechanism of rice.
21112958	Plants employ two distinct strategies to obtain iron (Fe) from the soil. In Strategy I but not Strategy II plants, Fe limitation invokes ethylene production which regulates Fe deficiency responses. Oryza sativa (rice) is the only graminaceous plant described that possesses a Strategy I-like system for iron uptake as well as the classic Strategy II system. Ethylene production of rice roots was significantly increased when grown under Fe-depleted conditions. Moreover, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) treatment, a precursor of ethylene, conferred tolerance to Fe deficiency in rice by increasing internal Fe availability. Gene expression analysis of rice iron-regulated bHLH transcription factor OsIRO2, nicotianamine synthases 1 and 2 (NAS1 and NAS2), yellow-stripe like transporter 15 (YSL15) and iron-regulated transporter (IRT1) indicated that ethylene caused an increase in transcript abundance of both Fe (II) and Fe (III)-phytosiderophore uptake systems. RNA interference of OsIRO2 in transgenic rice showed that ethylene acted via this transcription factor to induce the expression of OsNAS1, OsNAS2, OsYSL15, and OsIRT1. By contrast, in Hordeum vulgare L. (barley), no ethylene production or ethylene-mediated effects of Fe response could be detected. In conclusion, Fe-limiting conditions increased ethylene production and signalling in rice, which is novel in Strategy II plant species.
21113019	Plant microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to play critical roles in regulating gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. In this study, we employed high throughput sequencing combined with computational analysis to survey miRNAomes from the seedlings of rice under normal conditions and treatments of H(2)O(2) that result in oxidative stress. Comparison of the miRNAomes and subsequent northern blot analysis identified seven miRNA families differentially expressed under H(2)O(2) stress. Predicted and experimentally validated targets of these H(2)O(2)-responsive miRNAs are involved in different cellular responses and metabolic processes including transcriptional regulation, nutrient transport, auxin homeostasis, cell proliferation and programmed cell death. This indicates that diverse miRNAs form a complex regulatory network to coordinate plants' responses under oxidative stress. In addition, we also discovered 32 new miRNAs in the seedlings of rice. Interestingly, of these new miRNAs, miR3981 was originally found to be a putative exonic miRNA located in the exon of AK106348, suggesting that plants may also use some exons as an miRNA source. This study is the first genome-wide investigation of H(2)O(2)-regulated miRNAs in plants and broadens our perspectives on the important regulatory roles of miRNAs in plant oxidative stress and physiological adaption.
21113669	OsUgp2, a rice UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase gene, has previously been shown to preferentially express in maturing pollens and plays an important role in pollen starch accumulation. Here, a 1943 bp promoter fragment (P1943) of OsUgp2 was characterized by 5' deletion and gain-of-function experiments. P1943 and its 5' deletion derivatives (P1495, P1005, P665 and P159) were fused to GUS reporter gene and stably introduced into rice plants. Histochemical analyses of different tissues and pollens at different developmental stages of the transgenic plants showed that P1943 could only direct GUS expression in binucleate pollens. P1495 and P1005 could still drive GUS expression in binucleate pollens but at a lower level. On the other hand, neither P665 nor P159 transformant exhibited any GUS activity in pollens. Gain-of-function analyses showed that the region (-1005 to -665 relative to translation start site) combined with a minimal CaMV 35S promoter could direct GUS expression in pollens. Further analysis of 5' deletion truncated at -952, -847 and -740 delimited a 53 bp region (-1005 to -952) essential for pollen-specific expression. The 53 bp sequence contains two motifs of TTTCT and TTTC, which were known to be pollen-specific cis-elements. In addition, the same P1943-GUS fusion construct was introduced into tobacco to analyze its specificity in dicotyledon. Interestingly, the GUS expression pattern in transgenic tobacco was quite different from that in rice. High level of GUS expression was detected in mature pollens as well as leaves, roots, sepals and stigmas. These findings suggested a complicated transcriptional regulation of OsUgp2.
21113680	Seed development is a complex process controlled by temporal and spatial expression of many transcription factors (TF) inside the developing seed. In the present study, transcript profiles of all the 30 members of rice DofTFs from flowering to seed development stages were analyzed. It was found that 16 Dof genes besides a previously characterized Dof gene 'RPBF' are differentially expressed during the seed development and unlike RPBF are not seed specific. Based on the expression patterns, these rice DofTFs were categorized into four groups-6 genes were constitutive while 4 genes were up-regulated and 3 genes were down regulated and four genes were maximally expressed at specific stages of seed development viz. one gene at flowering, two genes at watery ripe and one gene at milky stage. The involvement of more than one gene at different stages of seed development is suggestive of combinatorial regulation of their downstream genes involved in seed development. In silico expression analysis of wheat and Arabidopsis Dof Tfs also revealed that more than 50% of the Dof genes are expressed during the seed development process. Further in silico study of regulatory elements present in the promoters of these genes revealed the presence of some unique and common motifs in the promoters of rice and wheat Dof genes which indicate that Dof genes are possibly involved in ethylene and jasmonate signaling pathways affecting grain filling and grain quality. These Dof genes containing ethylene responsive motifs in their promoter region could possibly be the targets of recently identified Sub1 gene which codes for a ethylene responsive factor.
21113791	Physical maps of chromosomes provide a framework for organizing and integrating diverse genetic information. DNA microarrays are a valuable technique for physical mapping and can also be used to facilitate the discovery of single feature polymorphisms (SFPs). Wheat chromosome arm 2BL was physically mapped using a Wheat Genome Array onto near-isogenic lines (NILs) with the aid of wheat-rice synteny and mapped wheat EST information. Using high variance probe set (HVP) analysis, 314 HVPs constituting genes present on 2BL were identified. The 314 HVPs were grouped into 3 categories: HVPs that match only rice chromosome 4 (298 HVPs), those that match only wheat ESTs mapped on 2BL (1), and those that match both rice chromosome 4 and wheat ESTs mapped on 2BL (15). All HVPs were converted into gene sets, which represented either unique rice gene models or mapped wheat ESTs that matched identified HVPs. Comparative physical maps were constructed for 16 wheat gene sets and 271 rice gene sets. Of the 271 rice gene sets, 257 were mapped to the 18-35 Mb regions on rice chromosome 4. Based on HVP analysis and sequence similarity between the gene models in the rice chromosomes and mapped wheat ESTs, the outermost rice gene model that limits the translocation breakpoint to orthologous regions was identified.
21113795	Activity of B-esterases (BChE: butyrylcholinesterase and CbE: carboxylesterase using two model substrates: α-naphthyl acetate and 4-nitrophenyl valerate) in a native frog, Leptodactylus chaquensis from rice fields (RF1: methamidophos and RF2: cypermethrin and endosulfan sprayed by aircraft) and non-contaminated area (pristine forest) was measured. The ability of pyridine-2-aldoxime methochloride (2-PAM) to reactivate BChE levels was also explored. In addition, changes in blood cell morphology and parasite infection were determined. Mean values of plasma BChE activities were lower in samples from the two rice fields than in those from the reference site. CbE (4-nitrophenyl valerate) levels varied in the three sites studied, being highest in RF1. Frog plasma from RF1 showed positive reactivation of BChE activity after incubation with 2-PAM. Blood parameters of frogs from RF2 revealed morphological alterations (anisochromasia and immature erythrocytes frequency). Moreover, a major infection of protozoan Trypanosoma sp. in individuals from the two rice fields was detected. We suggest that integrated use of several biomarkers (BChE and CBEs, chemical reactivation of plasma with 2-PAM, and blood cell parameters) may be a promising procedure for use in biomonitoring programmes to diagnose pesticide exposure of wild populations of this frog and other native anuran species in Argentina.
21114083	Drawing on microlevel research with men and women of differing ages living in rural and urban Siem Reap (home to the global heritage and tourist site of Angkor), this article focuses on the key discourses and practices that men and women draw on to (de)stabilize putatively traditional ideals of Cambodian womanhood and to (re)situate them in the contemporary period. Mapping the complex ways that people represent, make sense of, and respond to prerevolutionary cultural norms of female behavior in a very different era (with particular, though not exclusive, attention paid to mobility and education), the article demonstrates how deeper ideological changes concerning women’s relationship to Khmer tradition will have to accompany the surface reordering of Cambodian gender relations if equality between women and men is to be achieved. Until then, the ideal woman in contemporary Cambodian society is ultimately one who can creatively negotiate and balance the multiple demands placed on her by society, family, and self.
21114100	The removal efficiency of lead, cadmium and zinc from aqueous solution on adsorption by using rice husk, a non-conventional material in its natural and chemically modified form has been presented in this paper. It has been observed that rate of adsorption is dependent on the nature of the adsorbent, adsorbent dose, particle size of the adsorbent, concentration, pH, contact time, temperature, etc. Under identical experimental condition chemically modified rice husk was found to possess greater adsorption capacity for all metals than untreated rice husk and chemically modified rice husk ash. Chemically modified rice husk could remove 99.8% Pb, 95% Cd and 97% Zn from aqueous solution at room temperature.
21114104	The objective of this study was to monitor the concentration of trace metals in rice. Eight different commercial rice samples were collected from retail market and among these samples Fe, Cd, Cr and Zn metal concentrations were determined by using Flame Atomic Absorption Spectrometer (FAAS) and Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrophotometer (ICP-AES). The powdered rice samples were digested by wet chemical method. The analytical results obtained by both the instruments were found comparable. The accuracy of the method has been confirmed by analyzing Certified Reference Material CRM No. 10-b of National Institute for Environmental Studies (NIES). The concentrations of Fe, Cd, Cr and Zn in different brands were found in the range of 15.4 +/- 1.1 to 57.7 +/- 2.5 mg/kg, 0.08 +/- 0.03 to 0.39 +/- 0.05 mg/kg, 0.16 +/- 0.03 to 0.58 +/- 0.08 mg/kg and 7.3 +/- 0.3 to 18.6 +/- 0.5 mg/kg respectively. The standard deviation of the measurements has been calculated for Fe, Cd, Cr and Zn in six replicates of each sample and was found to be less than +/- 3% by the method proposed.
21114612	We show here that transgenic Arabidopsis plants that expressed chimeric repressors derived from the AtMYB102, ANAC047, HRS1, ZAT6 and AtERF5 transcription factors were tolerant to treatment with 400 mm NaCl, which was lethal to wild-type plants. The transgenic plants grew well, without any apparent differences from the wild-type plants under normal growth condition. The transgenic lines expressing the AtMYB102, ANAC047 and HRS1 chimeric repressors germinated in the presence of 225 mm NaCl, while those expressing the ZAT6 and AtERF5 did not. However, the latter lines were tolerant to osmotic stress and germinated in the presence of 600 mm mannitol, suggesting a link between responses to salt and osmotic stress. Expression of the AtMYB102, ANAC047, ZAT6 and AtERF5 genes was induced by salt treatment, while that of HRS1 was repressed. HRS1 has transcriptional repressive activity and appears to suppress the expression of factors that negatively regulate salt tolerance. Microarray analysis revealed that the levels of expression of DREB1A, DREB2B and several genes for ZAT transcription factors rose 10- to 100-fold in the AtMYB102 chimeric repressor line under both normal and stress conditions. Elevated expression of DREB- and ZAT- related genes might be involved in the salt tolerance of the AtMYB102 chimeric repressor line. Transgenic rice plants expressing chimeric repressors derived from Os02g0325600 and Os03g0327800, rice homologues of HRS1 and ANAC047, were tolerant to salinity stress demonstrated by suppression of growth inhibition and ion leakages. Expression of a chimeric repressor provides an effective strategy for enhancing tolerance of plants to abiotic stress.
21115329	New data on food allergy has recently changed the management of children with cow's milk protein allergy (CMPA). The diagnosis of CMPA first requires the elimination of cow's milk proteins and then an oral provocation test following a standard diagnostic procedure for food allergy, without which the elimination diet is unjustified and sometimes harmful. Once the diagnosis is made, the elimination diet is strict, at least until the age of 9-12 months. If the child is not breastfed or the mother cannot or no longer wishes to breastfeed, the first choice is a formula based on extensive hydrolyzate of cow's milk (eHF), provided that its effectiveness has been demonstrated. When eHF fails, a formula based on amino acids is warranted. eHF based on rice protein hydrolysates is an alternative to cow's milk eHF. Infant formulas based on soy protein can be used after the age of 6 months, after verification of good clinical tolerance to soy. Most commonly, CMPA disappears within 2 or 3 years of life. However, the age of recovery varies depending on the child and the type of CMPA, and whether or not it is IgE-mediated, the first being more sustainable. When the child grows, a hospital oral provocation test evaluates the development of tolerance and, if possible, authorizes continuing the reintroduction of milk proteins at home. Some children with CMPA will tolerate only a limited daily amount of cow's milk proteins. The current therapeutic options are designed to accelerate the acquisition of tolerance, which seems facilitated by regular exposure to cow's milk proteins.
21115808	The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) gene and its orthologs in other plant species (e.g. rice [Oryza sativa] OsFTL2/Hd3a) have an established role in the photoperiodic induction of flowering response. The genomic and phenotypic variations associated with the perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) ortholog of FT, designated LpFT3, was assessed in a diverse collection of nine European germplasm populations, which together constituted an association panel of 864 plants. Sequencing and genotyping of a series of amplicons derived from the nine populations, containing the complete exon and intron sequences as well as 5' and 3' noncoding sequences of LpFT3, identified a total of seven haplotypes. Genotyping assays designed to detect the genomic variation showed that three haplotypes were present in approximately equal proportions and represented 84% of the total, with a fourth representing a further 11%. Of the three major haplotypes, two were predicted to code for identical protein products and the third contained two amino acid substitutions. Association analysis using either a mixed model with a relationship matrix to correct for population structure and relatedness or structured association with further correction using genomic control indicated significant associations between LpFT3 and variation in flowering time. These associations were corroborated in a validation population segregating for the same major alleles. The most "diagnostic" region of genomic variation was situated 5' of the coding sequence. Analysis of this region identified that the interhaplotype variation was closely associated with sequence motifs that were apparently conserved in the 5' region of orthologs of LpFT3 from other plant species. These may represent cis-regulatory elements involved in influencing the expression of this gene.
21115813	To cause rice blast disease, the fungus Magnaporthe oryzae breaches the tough outer cuticle of the rice leaf by using specialized infection structures called appressoria. These cells allow the fungus to invade the host plant and proliferate rapidly within leaf tissue. Here, we show that a unique NADPH-dependent genetic switch regulates plant infection in response to the changing nutritional and redox conditions encountered by the pathogen. The biosynthetic enzyme trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (Tps1) integrates control of glucose-6-phosphate metabolism and nitrogen source utilization by regulating the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, the generation of NADPH, and the activity of nitrate reductase. We report that Tps1 directly binds to NADPH and, thereby, regulates a set of related transcriptional corepressors, comprising three proteins, Nmr1, Nmr2, and Nmr3, which can each bind NADP. Targeted deletion of any of the Nmr-encoding genes partially suppresses the nonpathogenic phenotype of a Δtps1 mutant. Tps1-dependent Nmr corepressors control the expression of a set of virulence-associated genes that are derepressed during appressorium-mediated plant infection. When considered together, these results suggest that initiation of rice blast disease by M. oryzae requires a regulatory mechanism involving an NADPH sensor protein, Tps1, a set of NADP-dependent transcriptional corepressors, and the nonconsuming interconversion of NADPH and NADP acting as signal transducer.
21117241
21117649	Metallocene ions (Cp(2)M(+), M = Cr, Co, Ni) were studied by threshold photoelectron photoion coincidence spectroscopy (TPEPICO) to investigate the mechanism, energetics, and kinetics of the ionic dissociation processes. The examined energy-selected Cp(2)M(+) ions fragment by losing the neutral cyclopentadienyl ligand. In addition, CH and C(2)H(2) losses appear as minor channels, while the cobaltocene ion also loses an H atom. A possible isomerization pathway has also been observed for Cp(2)Ni(+), yielding a complex with pentafulvalene (C(10)H(8)) with a loss of H(2). In order to determine the 0 K appearance energies for the CpM(+) fragment ions, the asymmetric time-of-flight peak shapes and the breakdown diagrams of the energy-selected metallocene ions were modeled by both the rigid activated complex (RAC) Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory and the simplified statistical adiabatic channel model (SSACM). The following appearance energies were obtained with SSACM, which is more reliable for loose transition states: 10.57 ± 0.14, 11.01 ± 0.13, and 10.18 ± 0.13 eV for M = Cr, Co, and Ni, respectively. These values combined with the corresponding adiabatic ionization energies yield M-Cp bond dissociation energies in Cp(2)M(+) ions of 5.04 ± 0.16, 5.77 ± 0.15, and 3.96 ± 0.15 eV. Density functional calculations at the B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level of theory were used to determine the structures of these complexes and to provide parameters necessary for the analysis of the experimental data. The trends in the M-Cp bond energies can be related to the electronic structures of the metallocene ions based on a simple molecular orbital picture.
21117708	The best known silicon (Si)-accumulating plant, rice (Oryza sativa L.), stores most of its Si in leaves, but the importance of Si has been limited to a mechanical role. Our initial studies showed that Si-induced cadmium (Cd) tolerance is mediated by the enhancement of instantaneous water-use-efficiency, carboxylation efficiency of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase (RuBisCO), and light-use-efficiency in leaves of rice plants. In this study, we investigated changes in the rice leaf proteome in order to identify molecular mechanisms involved in Si-induced Cd tolerance. Our study identified 60 protein spots that were differentially regulated due to Cd and/or Si treatments. Among them, 50 were significantly regulated by Si, including proteins associated with photosynthesis, redox homeostasis, regulation/protein synthesis, pathogen response and chaperone activity. Interestingly, we observed a Si-induced up-regulation of a class III peroxidase and a thaumatin-like protein irrespective of Cd treatment, in addition to a Cd-induced up-regulation of protein disulfide isomerase, a HSP70 homologue, a NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, and a putative phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, especially in the presence of Si. Taken together, our study sheds light on molecular mechanisms involved in Si-induced Cd tolerance in rice leaves and suggests a more active involvement of Si in plant physiological processes than previously proposed.
21118056	Total dietary fiber (TDF), insoluble dietary fiber (IDF) and soluble dietary fiber (SDF) contents of 37 composite dishes commonly consumed in the State of Kuwait were determined by the AOAC enzymatic-gravimetric method of Prosky et al. Levels (g/100 g) of SDF ranged over 0.3-0.5 in fish-based dishes, 0.3-2.6 in meat-based dishes, 0.1-1.4 in rice dishes, 3.2-4.6 in vegetable dishes, 0.3-0.7 in soup dishes, 0 in dairy dishes, 0.7-0.8 in sandwiches, and 0.1-5.0 in sweet dishes. IDF levels ranged over 1.1-1.8 in fish-based, 0.9-3.2 in meat-based, 0.6-2.7 in rice, 2.1-4.0 in vegetables, 0.6-3.4 in soup, 0 in dairy, 0.2-0.3 in sandwiches, and 0.2-11.6 in sweets. TDF values ranged over 1.4-2.3 in fish-based, 1.2-3.7 in meat-based, 0.3-4.1 in rice, 3.2-4.6 in vegetables, 0.9-3.8 in soup, 0 in dairy, 0.7-0.8 in sandwiches and 0.3-15.4 in sweets. This work attempts to provide new data on TDF, IDF and SDF of selected commonly consumed Kuwaiti composite dishes.
21118257	• The rice-rice blast pathosystem is of great interest, not only because of the damaging potential of rice blast to the rice crop, but also because both the pathogen and its host are experimentally amenable. The rice blast resistance gene Pik, which is one of the five classical alleles located at the Pik locus on the long arm of chromosome 11, confers high and stable resistance to many Chinese rice blast isolates. • The isolation and functional characterization of Pik were performed in the present study through genetic and genomic approaches. • A combination of Pik-1 and Pik-2 is required for the expression of Pik resistance. Both Pik-1 and Pik-2 encode coiled-coil nucleotide binding site leucine-rich repeat (NBS-LRR) proteins, and each shares a very high level of protein identity with corresponding proteins encoded by the Pik-m and Pik-p alleles. Pik could be distinguished from other Pik alleles, including Pik-m and Pik-p, by the allele-specific, single-nucleotide polymorphism T1-2944G. • The coupled genes probably did not evolve as a result of a duplication event, and are far from any NBS-LRR R gene characterized. Pik is a younger allele at the locus that probably emerged after rice domestication.
21118513	Physical maps are the substrate of genome sequencing and map-based cloning and their construction relies on the accurate assembly of BAC clones into large contigs that are then anchored to genetic maps with molecular markers. High Information Content Fingerprinting has become the method of choice for large and repetitive genomes such as those of maize, barley, and wheat. However, the high level of repeated DNA present in these genomes requires the application of very stringent criteria to ensure a reliable assembly with the FingerPrinted Contig (FPC) software, which often results in short contig lengths (of 3-5 clones before merging) as well as an unreliable assembly in some difficult regions. Difficulties can originate from a non-linear topological structure of clone overlaps, low power of clone ordering algorithms, and the absence of tools to identify sources of gaps in Minimal Tiling Paths (MTPs). To address these problems, we propose a novel approach that: (i) reduces the rate of false connections and Q-clones by using a new cutoff calculation method; (ii) obtains reliable clusters robust to the exclusion of single clone or clone overlap; (iii) explores the topological contig structure by considering contigs as networks of clones connected by significant overlaps; (iv) performs iterative clone clustering combined with ordering and order verification using re-sampling methods; and (v) uses global optimization methods for clone ordering and Band Map construction. The elements of this new analytical framework called Linear Topological Contig (LTC) were applied on datasets used previously for the construction of the physical map of wheat chromosome 3B with FPC. The performance of LTC vs. FPC was compared also on the simulated BAC libraries based on the known genome sequences for chromosome 1 of rice and chromosome 1 of maize. The results show that compared to other methods, LTC enables the construction of highly reliable and longer contigs (5-12 clones before merging), the detection of "weak" connections in contigs and their "repair", and the elongation of contigs obtained by other assembly methods.
21119003	During meiosis, the paired homologous chromosomes are tightly held together by the synaptonemal complex (SC). This complex consists of two parallel axial/lateral elements (AEs/LEs) and one central element. Here, we observed that PAIR3 localized to the chromosome core during prophase I and associated with both unsynapsed AEs and synapsed LEs. Analyses of the severe pair3 mutant demonstrated that PAIR3 was essential for bouquet formation, homologous pairing and normal recombination, and SC assembly. In addition, we showed that although PAIR3 was not required for the initial recruitment of PAIR2, it was required for the proper association of PAIR2 with chromosomes. Dual immunostaining revealed that PAIR3 highly colocalized with REC8. Moreover, studies using a rec8 mutant indicated that PAIR3 localized to chromosomes in a REC8-dependent manner.
21119645	The use of fertilizer results in tall rice plants that are susceptible to lodging and results in reduced plant yields. In this study, using chromosome segment substitution lines, we identified an effective quantitative trait loci (QTL) for culm strength, which was designated STRONG CULM2 (SCM2). Positional cloning of the gene revealed that SCM2 was identical to ABERRANT PANICLE ORGANIZATION1 (APO1), a gene previously reported to control panicle structure. A near-isogenic line carrying SCM2 showed enhanced culm strength and increased spikelet number because of the pleiotropic effects of the gene. Although SCM2 is a gain-of-function mutant of APO1, it does not have the negative effects reported for APO1 overexpression mutants, such as decreased panicle number and abnormal spikelet morphology. The identification of lodging-resistance genes by QTL analysis combined with positional cloning is a useful approach for improving lodging resistance and overall productivity in rice.
21120521	The 14-3-3s are a group of proteins that are ubiquitously found in eukaryotes. Plant 14-3-3 proteins are encoded by a large multigene family and are involved in signaling pathways to regulate plant development and protection from stress. Recent studies in Arabidopsis and rice have demonstrated the isoform specificity in 14-3-3s and their client protein interactions. However, detailed characterization of 14-3-3 gene family in legumes has not been reported. In this study, soybean 14-3-3 proteins were identified and their molecular characterization performed. Data mining of soybean genome and expressed sequence tag databases identified 18 14-3-3 genes, of them 16 are transcribed. All 16 SGF14s have higher expression in embryo tissues suggesting their potential role in seed development. Subcellular localization of all transcribed SGF14s demonstrated that 14-3-3 proteins in soybean have isoform specificity, however, some overlaps were also observed between closely related isoforms. A comparative analysis of SGF14s with Arabidopsis and rice 14-3-3s indicated that SGF14s also group into epsilon and non-epsilon classes. However, unlike Arabidopsis and rice 14-3-3s, SGF14s contained only one kind of gene structure belonging to each class. Overall, soybean consists of the largest family of 14-3-3 proteins characterized to date. Our results provide a solid framework for further investigations into the role of SGF14s and their involvement in legume-specific functions.
21120628	The superfamily of RNA binding proteins (RBPs) is vastly expanded in plants compared to other eukaryotes. A subfamily of RBPs that contain three RNA recognition motifs (RRMs) from the Arabidopsis (24), rice (19) and poplar (37) genomes was analyzed in this study. Phylogenetic analysis with full-length protein sequences of 80 RBPs identified nine clades. The largest clade, comprising 23 members, showed high homology to human RBPs involved in oxidative signaling. Digital northern analysis revealed that Arabidopsis RBPs are transcriptionally responsive to biotic, abiotic and hormonal treatments. Northern blot analysis of eight Arabidopsis RBPs belonging to the tobacco RBP45/47 family showed that these genes respond to ozone stress. AtRBP45b, which shows closest homology to the yeast oxidative stress regulatory protein, CSX1, was expressed in multiple tissues. Two novel splice variant forms of AtRBP45b were identified by 3'RACE analysis. Based on RT-PCR, splice variant AtRBP45b-SV1 was observed only in response to mechanical wounding caused by pathogen or chemical infiltrations and was not detectable in response to salt or temperature stress. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay demonstrated that recombinant full-length and splice variant forms of AtRBP45b bound synthetic RNA. Identifying in vivo RNA targets of AtRBP45b will aid in determining the precise functional role of these proteins during oxidative signaling.
21121075	Seed vigor is an important characteristic of seed quality, and rice cultivars with strong seed vigor are desirable in direct-sowing rice production for optimum stand establishment. In the present study, the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) of three traits for rice seed vigor during the germination stage, including germination rate, final germination percentage, and germination index, were investigated using one recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from a cross between japonica Daguandao and indica IR28, and using the multiple interval mapping (MIM) approach. The results show that indica rice presented stronger seed vigor during the germination stage than japonica rice. A total of ten QTLs, and at least five novel alleles, were detected to control rice seed vigor, and the amount of variation (R(2)) explained by an individual QTL ranged from 7.5% to 68.5%, with three major QTLs with R(2)>20%. Most of the QTLs detected here are likely to coincide with QTLs for seed weight, seed size, or seed dormancy, suggesting that the rice seed vigor might be correlated with seed weight, seed size, and seed dormancy. At least five QTLs are novel alleles with no previous reports of seed vigor genes in rice, and those major or minor QTLs could be used to significantly improve the seed vigor by marker-assisted selection (MAS) in rice.
21121088	Repeated phenotypic evolution can occur at both the inter- and intraspecific level and is especially prominent in domesticated plants, where artificial selection has favoured the same traits in many different species and varieties. The question of whether repeated evolution reflects changes at the same or different genes in each lineage can now be addressed using the domestication and improvement genes that have been identified in a variety of crops. Here, we document the genetic basis of nonpigmented ('white') pericarps in domesticated African rice (Oryza glaberrima) and compare it with the known genetic basis of the same trait in domesticated Asian rice (Oryza sativa). In some cases, white pericarps in African rice are apparently caused by unique mutations at the Rc gene, which also controls pericarp colour variation in Asian rice. In one case, white pericarps appear to reflect changes at a different gene or potentially a cis-regulatory region.
21121728	Frontoethmoidal mengingoencephaloceles (fMECs) are frequently observed in Cambodia, especially in poor families. The authors describe issues related to the surgical treatment of fMECs in Cambodia at the end of a humanitarian program that provided surgery free of charge to patients and their families. The authors reviewed 257 cases of fMEC involving patients who presented to their institution, the Children's Surgical Center in Phnom Penh, between 2004 and 2009. They treated 200 of these patients surgically (108 males, 92 females; 89% younger than 18 years) using a "low-cost" management plan with no routine pre- or postoperative investigations. Initially, surgery was performed by visiting foreign surgeons who taught the procedures to resident surgeons. Patients were not charged for consultations or treatment and received at least 1 follow-up examination 6 months postoperatively. The nasoethmoidal type was the most frequent fMEC encountered (69%). Many patients had associated ophthalmological issues (46% of cases). Only 1 familial case was detected. Combined neurosurgical and facial procedures were successfully standardized and learned by surgeons initially unfamiliar with fMEC management. A neurosurgical approach avoided the need for a facial incision in 42 cases, improving cosmetic results. The most common postoperative issues were a temporary CSF leak (24 cases [12%]) and/or infection (28 cases [14%]). There were 3 deaths directly related to the operations. Cosmetic results were good in 145 cases, average in 27, poor in 7, and worse than preoperative appearance in 6 patients. Fifteen patients were lost to follow-up. The parents of 87% of the children were rice farmers. Questionnaire results confirmed that fMEC has important social and educational consequences for the affected children and that these consequences can be partially improved by fMEC correction. This experience in fMEC management demonstrates that local surgeons can treat these malformations with limited surgical materials and in a nonspecialized infrastructure after principles of treatment have been learned and if they are carefully respected. Surgery for fMEC can thus be more accessible to a larger number of patients in developing countries. Moreover, local treatment facilitates better postoperative and follow-up care.
2112187	To compare the use of rice-based oral rehydration solution (R-ORS), with the introduction of food immediately after rehydration ("early feeding"), using standard glucose-based oral rehydration solution (G-ORS) in the management of acute diarrhea, we conducted a four-cell randomized, controlled trial among 200 hospitalized Egyptian infants between 3 and 18 months of age. During the rehydration phase (first 4 hours), three groups were given G-ORS and a fourth group was given R-ORS. During the subsequent maintenance phase, the control group was given a soy-based, lactose-free formula (G-ORS + SF), a second group (G-ORS + RF) was given a rice-based formula, and a third group (G-ORS + rice) was given boiled rice. The fourth group (R-ORS + SF) continued to receive R-ORS for the first 24 hours of the maintenance period, followed by a soy-based lactose-free formula. During the first and second 24 hours of the maintenance period, infants in the three treatment groups had a lower mean stool output in comparison with the control group (p = 0.006 and 0.03, respectively). The mean total stool output in the R-ORS + SF group was significantly lower than in the control group (p = 0.02). There were no statistically significant differences among the four groups in the mean duration of diarrhea. We conclude that (1) infants who were given R-ORS had reduced total stool output (by 35%) compared with the control group and (2) feeding of boiled rice or a rice-based formula immediately after rehydration therapy was as efficacious as treatment with R-ORS alone for 24 hours, followed by feeding with a soy-based, lactose-free formula.
21122096	The floral homeotic C function gene AGAMOUS (AG) confers stamen and carpel identity and is involved in the regulation of floral meristem termination in Arabidopsis. Arabidopsis ag mutants show complete homeotic conversions of stamens into petals and carpels into sepals as well as indeterminacy of the floral meristem. Gene function analysis in model core eudicots and the monocots rice and maize suggest a conserved function for AG homologs in angiosperms. At the same time gene phylogenies reveal a complex history of gene duplications and repeated subfunctionalization of paralogs. EScaAG1 and EScaAG2, duplicate AG homologs in the basal eudicot Eschscholzia californica show a high degree of similarity in sequence and expression, although EScaAG2 expression is lower than EScaAG1 expression. Functional studies employing virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) demonstrate that knock down of EScaAG1 and 2 function leads to homeotic conversion of stamens into petaloid structures and defects in floral meristem termination. However, carpels are transformed into petaloid organs rather than sepaloid structures. We also show that a reduction of EScaAG1 and EScaAG2 expression leads to significantly increased expression of a subset of floral homeotic B genes. This work presents expression and functional analysis of the two basal eudicot AG homologs. The reduction of EScaAG1 and 2 functions results in the change of stamen to petal identity and a transformation of the central whorl organ identity from carpel into petal identity. Petal identity requires the presence of the floral homeotic B function and our results show that the expression of a subset of B function genes extends into the central whorl when the C function is reduced. We propose a model for the evolution of B function regulation by C function suggesting that the mode of B function gene regulation found in Eschscholzia is ancestral and the C-independent regulation as found in Arabidopsis is evolutionarily derived.
21122150	Microarray technology is limited to monitoring the expression of previously annotated genes that have corresponding probes on the array. Computationally annotated genes have not fully been validated, because ESTs and full-length cDNAs cannot cover entire transcribed regions. Here, mRNA-Seq (an Illumina cDNA sequencing application) was used to monitor whole mRNAs of salinity stress-treated rice tissues. Thirty-six-base-pair reads from whole mRNAs were mapped to the rice genomic sequence: 72.0% to 75.2% were mapped uniquely to the genome, and 5.0% to 5.7% bridged exons. From the piling up of short reads mapped on the genome, a series of programs (Bowtie, TopHat, and Cufflinks) comprehensively predicted 51,301 (shoot) and 54,491 (root) transcripts, including 2,795 (shoot) and 3,082 (root) currently unannotated in the Rice Annotation Project database. Of these unannotated transcripts, 995 (shoot) and 1,052 (root) had ORFs similar to those encoding the amino acid sequences of functional proteins in a BLASTX search against UniProt and RefSeq databases. Among the unannotated genes, 213 (shoot) and 436 (root) were differentially expressed in response to salinity stress. Sequence-based and array-based measurements of the expression ratios of previously annotated genes were highly correlated. Unannotated transcripts were identified on the basis of the piling up of mapped reads derived from mRNAs in rice. Some of these unannotated transcripts encoding putative functional proteins were expressed differentially in response to salinity stress.
21124849	Xylans constitute the major non-cellulosic component of plant biomass. Xylan biosynthesis is particularly pronounced in cells with secondary walls, implying that the synthesis network consists of a set of highly expressed genes in such cells. To improve the understanding of xylan biosynthesis, we performed a comparative analysis of co-expression networks between Arabidopsis and rice as reference species with different wall types. Many co-expressed genes were represented by orthologs in both species, which implies common biological features, while some gene families were only found in one of the species, and therefore likely to be related to differences in their cell walls. To predict the subcellular location of the identified proteins, we developed a new method, PFANTOM (plant protein family information-based predictor for endomembrane), which was shown to perform better for proteins in the endomembrane system than other available prediction methods. Based on the combined approach of co-expression and predicted cellular localization, we propose a model for Arabidopsis and rice xylan synthesis in the Golgi apparatus and signaling from plasma membrane to nucleus for secondary cell wall differentiation. As an experimental validation of the model, we show that an Arabidopsis mutant in the PGSIP1 gene encoding one of the Golgi localized candidate proteins has a highly decreased content of glucuronic acid in secondary cell walls and substantially reduced xylan glucuronosyltransferase activity.
21125113	In many plant species, the duration of the daily exposure to light (photoperiod) provides a seasonal cue that helps to adjust flowering time to the most favourable time of the year. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the core mechanism of acceleration of flowering by long days involves the stabilisation of the CONSTANS (CO) protein by light reaching the leaves, the direct induction of the expression of FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) by CO and the migration of FT to the apex to promote flowering. In rice (Oryza sativa), the promotion of flowering by short days depends on the interplay between light conditions, and the genes Grain number, plant height and heading date locus 7 (Ghd7) and Early heading date 1 (Ehd1). In both cases, other day length-induced changes reinforce the core photoperiodic pathway of promotion of flowering. However, there are regulators of flowering time, quantitatively less important than the core pathways but still significant, which impact in the opposite direction, i.e. favouring rice flowering under long days or Arabidopsis flowering under short days. We show, for instance, that short days enhance leaf expression of SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN-LIKE 3 (SPL3), which stimulates Arabidopsis flowering under these conditions. We propose that fine tuning of flowering time depends on the balance of a hierarchy of multiple points of action of photoperiod on the network controlling flowering.
21125203	"IZUMI" is a new kind of vinegar resulting from an improvement in the manufacturing method of Kurosu, a traditional vinegar product made from unpolished rice. We evaluated the antioxidant activity of this new Kurosu by means of measuring the level of diacron-reactive oxygen metabolites (d-ROM), the biological antioxidant potential (BAP), as well as RBC deformability using the microchannel array flow method. Ten healthy, untrained female volunteers participated in this study. All subjects drank 50 ml of "IZUMI" on a daily basis, and blood samples were collected pre-"IZUMI" (I), after one month "IZUMI" consumption (II), and after two months "IZUMI" consumption (III). The subjects continuously wore a lifecorder during a 7-day period and the nutritional intake was measured before the initial blood sample collection. There were no significant changes in weight, BMI, fat mass, or fat-free mass. There were no significant differences in daily energy consumption, physical activity and nutritional intake. Peripheral blood variables did not change significantly. The drinking of " IZUMI " increased serum BAP level gradually, and after 30 days it was significantly higher as compared to the pre-drinking level. The serum level of d-ROM and blood filtration time (BFT) decreased by drinking "IZUMI"; with d-ROM significantly lower than the pre-drinking level after 30 days and BFT significantly decreased after 60 days (all P < 0.05). These results suggest that "IZUMI", a Kurosu containing a higher level of amino acids, increases antioxidant activity and reduces oxidative stress and blood filtration time in female subjects.
21125564	The open reading frame (ORF) encoding a novel G protein α subunit, Lo Gα(o), was cloned from the parthenogenetic rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel (Coleoptera: Curculionidae). The Lo Gα(o) ORF encodes a protein of 354 amino acid residues. The deduced protein sequence shares high homology with Gα(o) from other species. The expression patterns of Lo Gα(o) in various adult tissues were indicated by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot. The results showed that Lo Gα(o) mRNA was expressed at similar levels in tissues except relative high levels in the antennae of adult, and Lo Gα(o) protein of an apparent molecular mass of about 40 kDa was expressed in various tissues of the adult. Immunocytochemical localization showed that Lo Gα(o) was mainly expressed in the dendrites of the trichoid sensilla in the antenna of the weevil. The tissue and cellular localization of Lo Gα(o) suggests that Lo Gα(o) may take a part in signal transduction of olfactory/gustatory.
21125987	Thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) is the major biologically active form of thiamine (vitamin B1). This cross-sectional study assessed whole-blood thiamine pyrophosphate concentration (WBTPPC) in boarding school students in the Southern Region of Papua New Guinea. Sample size for each of the five boarding schools was calculated using the 'proportionate to population size' cluster sampling technique. The 'Clin-Rep' reagent kit was used for the extraction of thiamine pyrophosphate from whole blood. Reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography with post-column derivatization was used to determine the thiamine pyrophosphate concentration. Informed consent was obtained from 468 students, mean age 17.7 +/- 1.5 years. The gender distribution of these students was 274 (58.5%) males and 194 (41.5%) females. The median and interquartile range of WBTPPC for all students was 95.41 microg/l (82.27-113.55). Severe to marginal status of thiamine deficiency was present in 6.4% of all the students. The mean WBTPPC for female students was significantly lower than that for the male students (p < 0.001), with a mean difference of 14.17 microg/l (95% CI of the difference: 9.85-18.50). Severe to marginal status of thiamine deficiency was present in 9.8% of female students and 4.0% of male students. The data strongly support the need for effective implementation and monitoring of food fortification legislation in Papua New Guinea. Withdrawal of fortification or suboptimal thiamine fortification of rice and other cereal products in Papua New Guinea would have serious negative public health implications, especially among students in boarding schools.
21126818	To establish energetically and environmentally viable paddy rice-based bioethanol production systems in northern Japan, it is important to implement appropriately selected agronomic practice options during the rice cultivation step. In this context, effects of rice variety (conventional vs. high-yielding) and rice straw management (return to vs. removal from the paddy field) on energy inputs from fuels and consumption of materials, greenhouse gas emissions (fuel and material consumption-derived CO(2) emissions as well as paddy soil CH(4) and N(2)O emissions) and ethanol yields were assessed. The estimated ethanol yield from the high-yielding rice variety, "Kita-aoba" was 2.94 kL ha(-1), a 32% increase from the conventional rice variety, "Kirara 397". Under conventional rice production in northern Japan (conventional rice variety and straw returned to the paddy), raising seedlings, mechanical field operations, transportation of harvested unhulled brown rice and consumption of materials (seeds, fertilizers, biocides and agricultural machinery) amounted to 28.5 GJ ha(-1) in energy inputs. The total energy input was increased by 14% by using the high-yielding variety and straw removal, owing to increased requirements for fuels in harvesting and transporting harvested rice as well as in collecting, loading and transporting rice straw. In terms of energy efficiency, the variation among rice variety and straw management scenarios regarding rice varieties and rice straw management was small (28.5-32.6 GJ ha(-1) or 10.1-14.0 MJ L(-1)). Meanwhile, CO(2)-equivalent greenhouse gas emissions varied considerably from scenario to scenario, as straw management had significant impacts on CH(4) emissions from paddy soils. When rice straw was incorporated into the soil, total CO(2)-equivalent greenhouse gas emissions for "Kirara 397" and "Kita-aoba" were 25.5 and 28.2 Mg CO(2) ha(-1), respectively; however, these emissions were reduced notably for the two varieties when rice straw was removed from the paddy fields in an effort to mitigate CH(4) emissions. Thus, rice straw removal avers itself a key practice with respect to lessening the impacts of greenhouse gas emissions in paddy rice-based ethanol production systems in northern Japan. More crucially, the rice straw removed is available for ethanol production and generation of heat energy with a biomass boiler, all elements required for biomass-to-ethanol transformation steps including saccharification, fermentation and distillation. This indicates opportunities for further improvement in energy efficiency and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions under whole rice plant-based bioethanol production systems.
21127026	Cadmium (Cd) in rice is a major source of Cd intake for people on a staple rice diet. The mechanisms underlying Cd accumulation in rice plant are still poorly understood. Here, we characterized the physiology and genetics of Cd transport in a high-Cd-accumulating cultivar (Jarjan) of rice (Oryza sativa). Jarjan showed 5- to 34-fold higher Cd accumulation in the shoots and grains than the cultivar Nipponbare, when it was grown in either a non-Cd-contaminated or a Cd-contaminated soil. A short-term uptake experiment showed no significant difference in Cd uptake by the roots between the two cultivars. However, Jarjan translocated 49% of the total Cd taken up to the shoots, whereas Nipponbare retained most of the Cd in the roots. In both concentration- and time-dependent experiments, Jarjan showed a superior capacity for root-to-shoot translocation of Cd. These results indicate that the high-Cd-accumulation phenotype in Jarjan results from efficient translocation of Cd from roots to shoots. Genetic analysis using an F(2) population derived from Jarjan and Nipponbare revealed that plants showing high- and low-Cd-accumulation phenotypes segregated in a 1:3 ratio, indicating that high accumulation in Jarjan is controlled by a single recessive gene. Furthermore, we isolated OsHMA3, a gene encoding a tonoplast-localized Cd transporter from Jarjan. The OsHMA3 protein was localized in all roots cells, but the sequence has a mutation leading to loss of function. Therefore, failure to sequester Cd into the root vacuoles by OsHMA3 is probably responsible for high Cd accumulation in Jarjan.
21127404	Increasing evidence has revealed that membrane trafficking is highly associated with cell wall metabolism. Factors involved in vesicle delivery, e.g. cytoskeleton and motor proteins, have showed regulatory effects on cell wall structure and components. However, little is known about the involvement of other trafficking components in distribution of cell wall-related compartments. Dynamins are important proteins functioning in membrane tubulation and vesiculation. Recently, we have reported characterization of the rice dynamin-related protein 2B (OsDRP2B). Mutation in OsDRP2B causes a significant reduction in cellulose content. Its association with the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and clathrin-coated vesicles and the reduced CESA4 abundance at the bc3 plasma membrane suggest that BC3/OsDRP2B is involved in the transport of essential elements for cellulose synthesis. Here, we provide additional evidence for BC3 subcellular localization via observing OsDRP2B-GFP in living root hairs of transgenic plants. Uronic acid and fractional composition analyses further confirm that the amount of arabinoxylan and other noncellulosic polysaccharides is increased in bc3. However, three putative xylan synthesis genes are down-regulated in mutant plant revealed by real-time PCR analysis. These results imply that compartments delivered by OsDRP2B are specifically responsible for cellulose biosynthesis.
21127849	A new and efficient analytic methodology based on cloud point extraction (CPE) was developed for determination of pesticide residues of metsulfuron-methyl (MSM), chlorsulfuron (CS), and bensulfuron-methyl (BSM) in water, soil, and rice grain by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Multiple experimental conditions that affected CPE efficiency-including surfactant type and concentration, equilibration temperature and duration, ionic strength, and solution pH were identified. CPE conditions were optimized as follows: 1.5% Triton X-114 (w/v), 12% Na(2)SO(4) (w/v) solution (pH 2.0), and heat-assisted at 50 °C for 15 min. The calibration curves for all analytes were linear, ranging from 0.05 to 4.0 mg L(-1), with the correlation coefficients >0.9995 by HPLC-ultraviolet detector and were linear, ranging from 0.004 to 2.0 mg L(-1), with correlation coefficients >0.9983 by CPE-HPLC. The average recoveries at the three spiked levels using CPE ranged from 86.0% to 94.5% for water samples with relative SDs (RSDs) of 0.4% to approximately 7.8%; from 85.6% to 94.8% for soil samples with RSDs of 1.2% to approximately 9.5%; and from 81.9% to 91.3% for rice samples with RSDs of 1.7% to approximately 5.8%. The proposed CPE-HPLC method can be successfully used to analyze MSM, CS, and BSM residues from contaminated water, soil, and rice grain samples.
21128071	Siderophore production confers to bacteria competitive advantages to colonize plant tissues and to exclude other microorganisms from the same ecological niche. This work shows that the community of endophytic siderophore-producing bacteria (SPB) associated to Oryza sativa cultivated in Uruguayan soils is dynamic and diverse. These bacteria were present in grains, roots, and leaves, and their density fluctuated between log(10) 3.44 and log(10) 5.52 cfu g(-1) fresh weight (fw) during the plant growth. Less than 10% of the heterotrophic bacteria produced siderophores in roots and leaves of young plants, but most of the heterotrophic bacteria were siderophore-producers in mature plants. According to their amplified restriction DNA ribosomal analysis (ARDRA) pattern, 54 of the 109 endophytic SPB isolated from different plant tissues or growth stages from replicate plots, were unique. Bacteria belonging to the genera Sphingomonas, Pseudomonas, Burkholderia, and Enterobacter alternated during plant growth, but the genus Pantoea was predominant in roots at tillering and in leaves at subsequent stages. Pantoea ananatis was the SPB permanently associated to any of the plant tissues, but the genetic diversity within this species-revealed by BOX-PCR fingerprinting- showed that different strains were randomly distributed along time and plant tissue, suggesting that a common trait of the species P. ananatis determined the interaction with the rice plant. Several isolates were stronger IAA producers than Azospirillum brasilense or Herbaspirillum seropedicae. In vitro inhibition assays showed that SPB of the genus Burkholderia were good antagonists of pathogenic fungi and that only one SPB isolate of the genus Pseudomonas was able to inhibit A. brasilense and H. seropedicae. These results denoted that SPB were selected into the rice plant. P. ananatis was the permanent and dominant associated species which was unable to inhibit two of the relevant plant growth-promoting bacteria.
21128072	We assessed the temporal dynamics of bacterial and fungal communities in a soil ecosystem supporting genetically modified (GM) rice (Oryza sativa L., ABC-TPSP; fusion of trehalose-6-phosphate synthase and phosphatase). Using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and real-time quantitative PCR, we compared bacterial and fungal communities in the soils underlying GM rice (ABC-TPSP), and its host cultivar (Nakdong) during growing seasons and non-growing seasons. Overall, the soils supporting GM and non-GM rice did not differ significantly in diversity indices, including ribotype numbers, for either bacteria or fungi. The diversity index (H) in both the bacterial and fungal communities was correlated with water content, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), and ammonium nitrogen, and the correlation was stronger in fungi than in bacteria. Multivariate analysis showed no differences in microbial community structures between the two crop genotypes, but such differences did appear in time, with significant changes observed after harvest. Gene copy number was estimated as 10(8)~10(11) and 10(5)~10(7) per gram of soil for bacteria and fungi, respectively. As observed for community structure, the rice genotypes did not differ significantly in either bacterial- or fungal-specific gene copy numbers, although we observed a seasonal change in number. We summarize the results of this study as follows. (1) GM rice did not influence soil bacterial and fungal community structures as compared to non-GM rice in our system, (2) both bacterial and fungal communities changed with the growth stage of either rice genotype, (3) fungal communities were less variable than bacterial communities, and (4) although several environmental factors, including ammonium nitrogen and DOC correlated with shifts in microbial community structure, no single factor stood out.
21128771	Melanoma growing as a tumorigenic nodule is one of the most virulent neoplasms to which the flesh is heir. At a considerably small tumor size, it incurs significant risk for widespread metastatic dissemination. There are no effective means of surgical intervention, chemical therapy, or immunologic therapy for advanced and metastatic melanoma. To review the literature and highlight recent cardinal advances in the understanding of melanoma vertical growth, with specific emphasis on how its recognition and characterization may be applied to diagnostic practice and development of novel investigative approaches. Literature review, archival material, personal experience, and research collaborators. The study of tumorigenic melanoma, both in primary lesions and in metastases, is the key to the eventual eradication of this highly virulent neoplasm that may disseminate widely when only occupying the volume of a grain of rice. Morphology often provides the first insight into structure and function. A growing database using meticulous and inclusive criteria to define tumor stem cells in the context of clinically relevant models now indicates that the key to melanoma heterogeneity may reside in a small subpopulation with the ability to self-renew and form tumors despite most cells present being significantly less virulent. Hopefully, from these insights into melanoma tumor progression from radial growth phase to heterogeneous and tumorigenic vertical growth phase will come additional answers to how smart therapies may be developed that specifically target those vertical growth phase cells that most pertain to patient survival.
21128943	• Acyl-CoA-binding proteins (ACBPs) show conservation in an acyl-CoA-binding domain (ACB domain) which binds acyl-CoA esters. Previous studies on plant ACBPs focused on eudicots, Arabidopsis and Brassica. Here, we report on the phylogeny and characterization of the ACBP family from the monocot Oryza sativa (rice). • Phylogenetic analyses were conducted using 16 plant genomes. Expression profiles of rice ACBPs under normal growth, as well as biotic and abiotic stress conditions, were examined by quantitative real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reactions. In vitro acyl-CoA-binding assays were conducted using recombinant (His)₆-tagged ACBPs. • The ACBP family diversified as land plants evolved. Classes I and IV show lineage-specific gene expansion. Classes II and III are closely related phylogenetically. As in the eudicot Arabidopsis, six genes (designated OsACBP1 to OsACBP6) encode rice ACBPs, but their distribution into various classes differed from Arabidopsis. Rice ACBP mRNAs showed ubiquitous expression and OsACBP4, OsACBP5 and OsACBP6 were stress-responsive. All recombinant rice ACBPs bind [¹⁴C]linolenoyl-CoA besides having specific substrates. • Phylogeny, gene expression and biochemical analyses suggest that paralogues within and across classes are not redundant proteins. In addition to performing conserved basal functions, multidomain rice ACBPs appear to be associated with stress responses.
21130479	Combined genomics and metabolomics approaches were used to unravel molecular mechanisms behind interactions between winter cress (Barbarea vulgaris) and flea beetle (Phyllotreta nemorum). B. vulgaris comprises two morphologically, biochemically and cytologically deviating types, which differ in flea beetle resistance, saponin and glucosinolate profiles, as well as leaf pubescence. An F2 population generated from a cross between the two B. vulgaris types was used to construct a B. vulgaris genetic map based on 100 AFLP and 31 microsatellite markers. The map was divided into eight linkage groups. QTL (quantitative trait loci) analysis revealed a total of 15 QTL affecting eight traits, including nine QTL for four saponins, two QTL for two glucosinolates, two QTL for hairiness, and two QTL for flea beetle resistance. The two QTL for resistance towards flea beetles in B. vulgaris co-localized with QTL for the four saponins associated with resistance. Furthermore, global QTL analysis of B. vulgaris metabolites identified QTL for a number of flavonoid glycosides and additional saponins from both resistant and susceptible types. The transcriptome of the resistant B. vulgaris type was sequenced by pyrosequencing, and sequences containing microsatellites were identified. Microsatellite types in B. vulgaris were similar to Arabidopsis thaliana but different from Oryza sativa. Comparative analysis between B. vulgaris and A. thaliana revealed a remarkable degree of synteny between a large part of linkage groups 1 and 4 of B. vulgaris harboring the two QTL for flea beetle resistance and Arabidopsis chromosomes 3 and 1. Gene candidates that may underlie QTL for resistance and saponin biosynthesis are discussed.
21130768	In this study, we identified and functionally characterized the mitochondrial heat shock protein 70 (mtHsp70). Over-expression of mtHsp70 suppressed heat- and H(2)O(2)-induced programmed cell death (PCD) in rice protoplasts, as reflected by higher cell viability, decreased DNA laddering and chromatin condensation. Mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψ(m)) after heat shock was destroyed gradually in protoplasts, but mtHsp70 over-expression showed higher Δψ(m) relative to the vector control cells, and partially inhibited cytochrome c release from mitochondria to cytosol. Heat treatment also significantly increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, a phenomenon not observed in protoplasts over-expressing mtHsp70. Together, these results suggest that mtHsp70 may suppress PCD in rice protoplasts by maintaining mitochondrial Δψ(m) and inhibiting the amplification of ROS.
21131502	A novel methanotroph, designated strain E10(T), was isolated from a rice paddy field in Uruguay. Strain E10(T) grew on methane and methanol as sole carbon and energy sources. Cells were Gram-negative, non-motile, non-pigmented, slightly curved rods showing type I intracytoplasmic membranes arranged in stacks. The strain was neutrophilic and mesophilic; optimum growth occurred at 30-35 °C with no growth above 37 °C. The strain possessed only a particulate methane monooxygenase (pmoA). Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that the strain was most closely related to the moderately thermophilic strains Methylocaldum szegediense OR2(T) (91.6 % sequence similarity) and Methylococcus capsulatus Bath (91.5 %). Comparative sequence analysis of pmoA genes also confirmed that strain E10(T) formed a new lineage among the genera Methylocaldum and Methylococcus with 89 and 84 % derived amino acid sequence identity to Methylococcus capsulatus Bath and Methylocaldum gracile VKM-14L(T), respectively. The DNA G+C content was 63.1 mol% and the major cellular fatty acid was C(16 :0) (62.05 %). Thus, strain E10(T) (=JCM 16910(T) = DSM 23452(T)) represents the type strain of a novel species within a new genus, for which the name Methylogaea oryzae gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed.
21132530	Oryza rufipogon L. (O. rufipogon) or a common wild rice, showed considerable aluminum (Al) tolerance. In this study, we examined the physiologic and genetic response of wild rice short term and long term to Al toxicity, respectively. In the short term study, morin staining, DAPI staining and aniline blue staining were used to detect Al distribution, cell division and callose production in the roots of O. rufipogon. The results indicated cell division could be enhanced by Al within low concentration range. In the long term study, we chose Oryza sativa L (O. sativa) (the close sib of O. rufipogon) as a reference. It showed that O. rufipogon grew better than O. sativa when treated with Al of 1.4 mmol/l concentration and also experienced a short period of root growth stimulation. This study gave some basic data to explain the mechanisms Oryza rufipogon L. developed to deal with Al and lay a good foundation to further study. SSH (suppression subtractive hybridization) proved that transcripts of the small subunit of Rubisco and a Photosystem I P700 apoprotein were enhanced under long term Al treatment in wild rice. Further investigation via the assessment of the content of chlorophyll a, b indicated that the content of chlorophyll a, b in the leaves of O. rufipogon generally rose after Al treatment for 15 days. This indicated that intake of Al can affect photosynthesis of plant.
21132544	Panicle exsertion, an essential physiological process for obtaining high grain yield in rice is mainly driven by peduncle (uppermost internode) elongation. Drought at heading/panicle emergence prevented peduncle elongation from reaching its maximum length even after re-watering. This inhibitory effect of drought resulted in delayed heading and trapping spikelets lower down the panicle inside the flag-leaf sheath, thus increasing sterility in the lower un-exserted spikelets and also among the upper superior spikelets whose exsertion was delayed. Intermittent drought stress caused a significant reduction in relative water content (RWC) and an increase in the abscisic acid (ABA) level of the peduncles, while both returned to normal levels upon re-watering. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed the down-regulation of GA biosynthetic genes during drought. 2D-PAGE analysis of proteins from peduncles collected under well-watered, drought-stressed, and re-watered plants revealed at least twofold differential changes in expression of 31 proteins in response to drought and most of these changes were largely reversed by re-watering. The results indicate that ABA-GA antagonism is a key focal point for understanding the failure of panicle exsertion under drought stress and the consequent increase in spikelet sterility.
21132569	Plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) refer to the bacteria beneficial to plants, and they may affect the growth and development of plants directly or indirectly. This article studied the activities of nitrogen fixation and colonization of a strain of PGPB, Klebsiella pneumoniae NG14, which was isolated from the rice root surface. The results showed that NG14 harbouring the nifH gene had nitrogenase activity, (15)N(2)-fixing activity, and was able to colonize on the root surface and within the cavity of root vascular tissues of rice. Using proteomics technology to study the differences and changes of membrane proteins (MP) of NG14 bacterial biofilm in non-biological surface, 28 proteins showing significant differences before and after the formation of bacterial biofilm have been identified, in which the precursors of membrane pore protein OmpC relevant to osmotic stress resistance was up-regulated. This study would have positive significance on further understanding of the direct and indirect promotion effects of PGPB and related mechanisms.
21132591	A rapid, reliable and sensitive reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography method with fluorescence detection (RP-FLD-HPLC) was developed and validated for simultaneous analysis of the abamectin (ABA), emamectin (EMA) benzoate and ivermectin (IVM) residues in rice. After extraction with acetonitrile/water (2 : 1) with sonication, the avermectin (AVMs) residues were directly derivatised by N-methylimidazole (N-NMIM) and trifluoroacetic anhydride (TFAA) and then analysed on RP-FLD-HPLC. A good linear relationship (r(2)> 0.99) was obtained for three AVMs ranging from 0.01 to 5 microg ml(-1), i.e. 0.01-5.0 microg g(-1) in rice matrix. The limit of detection (LOD) and the limit of quantification (LOQ) were between 0.001 and 0.002 microg g(-1) and between 0.004 and 0.006 microg g(-1), respectively. Recoveries were from 81.9% to 105.4% and precision less than 12.4%. The proposed method was successfully applied to routine analysis of the AVMs residues in rice.
21133958	In wetland ecosystems, methane is actively utilized by methanotrophs. The immobilized methane carbon is then passed on to other organisms such as grazers. Here, we traced the incorporation of methanotrophic biomass into eukaryotes in a rice field soil using phospholipid fatty acid stable-isotope probing (PLFA-SIP). Addition of (13)C-labeled cells of five methanotrophs to soil (5 × 10(7) cells g(-1) soil) did not affect the CO(2) release rate, but significantly increased the carbon isotopic ratio within 24 h. In 48 h, 2-7% of the added bacterial biomass carbon was detected as (13)CO(2) . The soil with Methylobacter luteus released the highest amount of (13)CO(2) , comparable to that with Escherichia coli. The amount of polyunsaturated PLFAs (C18:3ω6c and C20:4ω6c) was not affected by the addition of bacterial cells to soil, but their carbon isotopic ratio increased significantly within 24-48 h. The extent of (13)C-enrichment in PLFAs differed between the added methanotrophs, with the highest labeling upon addition of M. luteus. The relative abundance of (13) C-labeled C18:3ω6c to C20:4ω6C also differed between the strains. The results indicated that the eukaryotes in soil, probably protozoa, preferentially graze on specific methanotrophs and immediately incorporate their biomass.
21134493	The possibility of newer allergens being responsible for atopy needs to be explored at regional level due to environmental variables. Current studies were undertaken to identify common environmental allergens causing atopy in a defined population of India and to correlate the presence of various risk factors with the clinical presentation of allergy. Newer allergens like human dander and rice grain dust were identified and reported as the most common cause of atopy in this region. Atopy, elevated serum total IgE and familial tendency, was observed in 88%, 69% and 58% of allergic patients respectively. Further, allergen-specific immune responses like lymphocyte proliferation and cytokine secretion were studied in vitro using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) isolated from both allergic and non-allergic individuals. Although, some allergens induced significant lymphocyte proliferation in vitro, allergen-induced cytokine secretion except that of TNF-α was not seen. Significantly higher ratio of secreted IL-4/IFN-γ cytokines was observed in PBMC isolated from allergic subjects in response to PHA. Plumbagin (vitamin K3 analogue) completely inhibited PHA-induced cytokine production in PBMC, in both allergic and non-allergic individuals. Plumbagin modulated the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species and glutathione and suppressed PHA induced activation of NF-κB in human PBMC. The results thus show in human PMBC, for the first time, the anti-allergic and anti-inflammatory effects of plumbagin and underscore its therapeutic potential.
21134742	The combined pretreatment of rice straw using dilute-acid and steam explosion followed by enzymatic hydrolysis was investigated and compared with acid-catalyzed steam explosion pretreatment. In addition to measuring the chemical composition, including glucan, xylan and lignin content, changes in rice straw features after pretreatment were investigated in terms of the straw's physical properties. These properties included crystallinity, surface area, mean particle size and scanning electron microscopy imagery. The effect of acid concentration on the acid-catalyzed steam explosion was studied in a range between 1% and 15% acid at 180°C for 2 min. We also investigated the influence of the residence time of the steam explosion in the combined pretreatment and the optimum conditions for the dilute-acid hydrolysis step in order to develop an integrated process for the dilute-acid and steam explosion. The optimum operational conditions for the first dilute-acid hydrolysis step were determined to be 165°C for 2 min with 2% H(2)SO(4) and for the second steam explosion step was to be carried out at 180°C for 20 min; this gave the most favorable combination in terms of an integrated process. We found that rice straw pretreated by the dilute-acid/steam explosions had a higher xylose yield, a lower level of inhibitor in the hydrolysate and a greater degree of enzymatic hydrolysis; this resulted in a 1.5-fold increase in the overall sugar yield when compared to the acid-catalyzed steam explosion.
21135149	In order to understand how the morphology of plant species has diversified over time, it is necessary to decipher how the underlying developmental programs have evolved. The regulatory network controlling shoot meristem activity is likely to have played an important role in morphological diversification and useful insights can be gained by comparing monocots and eudicots. These two distinct monophyletic groups of angiosperms diverged 130 Ma and are characterized by important differences in their morphology. Several studies of eudicot species have revealed a conserved role for NAM and CUC3 genes in meristem functioning and pattern formation through the definition of morphogenetic boundaries during development. In this study, we show that NAM- and CUC3-related genes are conserved in palms and grasses, their diversification having predated the radiation of monocots and eudicots. Moreover, the NAM-miR164 posttranscriptional regulatory module is also conserved in palm species. However, in contrast to the CUC3-related genes, which share a similar expression pattern between the two angiosperm groups, the expression domain of the NAM-miR164 module differs between monocot and eudicot species. In our studies of spatial expression patterns, we compared existing eudicot data with novel results from our work using two palm species (date palm and oil palm) and two members of the Poaceae (rice and millet). In addition to contrasting results obtained at the gene expression level, major differences were also observed between eudicot and monocot NAM-related genes in the occurrence of putative cis-regulatory elements in their promoter sequences. Overall, our results suggest that although NAM- and CUC3-related proteins are functionally equivalent between monocots and eudicots, evolutionary radiation has resulted in heterotopy through alterations in the expression domain of the NAM-miR164 regulatory module.
2113620
21136294	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a warm-season plant exposed to various stresses. Low temperature is an important factor limiting extension of rice cultivation areas and productivity. Previously, we have demonstrated that tomato ERF protein TERF2 enhances freezing tolerance of transgenic tobacco and tomato plants. Herein, we report that overexpression of TERF2 enhances transgenic rice tolerance to cold without affecting growth or agronomic traits. Physiological assays revealed that TERF2 could not only increase accumulation of osmotic substances and chlorophyll, but also reduce reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) content and decrease electrolyte leakage in rice under cold stress. Further analysis of gene expression showed that TERF2 could activate expression of cold-related genes, including OsMyb, OsICE1, OsCDPK7, OsSODB, OsFer1, OsTrx23, and OsLti6, in transgenic rice plants under natural condition or cold stress. Thus, our findings demonstrated that TERF2 modulated expression of stress-related genes and a series of physiological adjustments under cold stress, indicating that TERF2 might have important regulatory roles in response to abiotic stress in rice and possess potential utility in improving crop cold tolerance.
21137414	Analyzing methods of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), scanning electron microscope (SEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD) and X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy (XRF) were used to reveal the adsorption mechanism of Cr(VI) by low-cost adsorbent of rice husk ash. Results of FTIR showed that amide II band, Si--O--Si, and (O--Si--O were important for Cr(VI) removal. SEM micrographs suggested that series of needle-shaped precipitation appeared on cell surface, and inorganic precipitation mechanism and redox mechanism might work in the test. XPS spectra showed that main elements of rice husk ash were C, N, O, P and Si, existing state of C was mainly aldoketones groups, coordi nation reaction existed between C functional groups and Cr(VI); N element, --NH2 in chief, could remove Cr(VI) in the way of physical adsorption based on electrostatic interaction; Si--O might be useful in adsorption process. XRD data suggested representative characteristic adsorption band of SiO2, and the increasing crystallinity of rice husk ash showed metallic compound formed between Cr(VI) and rice husk ash. XRF results indicated that the content of K, Na, Mg and Ca changed, and two new elements were detected, the evidence of ion exchange mechanism. The functional groups played different roles in Cr(VI) adsorption process, and inorganic precipitation mechanism, redox mechanism, surf-complexation mechanism and ion exchange mechanism were important ways in Cr(VI) removal, which could provide theoretical support in further application.
21138330	The effects of pressure on the vibrational spectra of crystalline nitromethane have been studied by computing normal-mode frequencies and eigenvectors and classical power spectra at several hydrostatic pressures between 0 and 27.3 GPa using the full-dimensional Sorescu-Rice-Thompson (J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104, 8406) (SRT) valence force field. The purpose of the study was to determine the limits within which the SRT force field, and classical mechanics more generally, captures the qualitative pressure effects observed experimentally. The current results exhibit good overall agreement between the calculated normal-mode frequencies (and especially their pressure-dependent shifts) and those obtained in published experimental and theoretical studies. Comparisons of the pressure dependencies near room temperature of classical power spectra to experimental pressure-dependent infrared (IR) spectra for particular vibrational modes yield, in the case of the CN stretch, a CH(3) deformation, and the NO(2) asymmetric stretch, intriguingly similar evolution of spectral intensity with respect to pressure, whereas for the case of the NO(2) symmetric stretch mode the classical result bears little similarity to the experimental result.
21138347	Bran cereals are known to contain substantial concentrations of important nutrients, bioactive compounds, fiber, minerals, proteins, lipids, and vitamins. The vitamins present in rice bran include those of the B complex (B(1) and B(3)), which affect the central nervous system (natural antidepressant and tranquilizer effects) acting in schizophrenia, neuralgia, and fatigue. The elevated plus maze (EPM) test is a model widely used for the study of anxiety in animals. The forced swimming (FS) test is the model used most often for evaluating the antidepressant activity in animal models in pharmacology. This study examined the behavior of 32 male Wistar rats, 21 days old, in the FS and EPM tests after treatment with strawberry- or chocolate-flavored rice bran drink for 28 days. The concentration of adrenocorticotropic hormone in the plasma of the animals was determined at the beginning and end of treatment. The values found (<1.0 mg/dL) showed no significant difference between the test and control groups in the periods analyzed. In the EPM, ingesting the chocolate-flavored drink showed an anxiogenic trend in the rats, and the strawberry-flavored rice bran drink led to an anxiolytic profile, although the difference was not statistically significant (P > .05). In the FS test, the duration of immobility of rats in groups consuming rice bran drinks was higher than in the control group, but without a statistically significant difference (P > .05). However, this result may indicate a tendency toward an effect on the central nervous system of the animals after the ingestion of the rice bran beverage.
21139851	Risk-based assessment is a way to evaluate the potential hazards of contaminated sites and is based on considering linkages between pollution sources, pathways, and receptors. These linkages can be broken by source reduction, pathway management, and modifying exposure of the receptors. In Taiwan, the Soil and Groundwater Pollution Remediation Act (SGWPR Act) uses one target regulation to evaluate the contamination status of soil and groundwater pollution. More than 600 sites contaminated with heavy metals (HMs) have been remediated and the costs of this process are always high. Besides using soil remediation techniques to remove contaminants from these sites, the selection of possible remediation methods to obtain rapid risk reduction is permissible and of increasing interest. This paper discusses previous soil remediation techniques applied to different sites in Taiwan and also clarified the differences of risk assessment before and after soil remediation obtained by applying different risk assessment models. This paper also includes many case studies on: (1) food safety risk assessment for brown rice growing in a HMs-contaminated site; (2) a tiered approach to health risk assessment for a contaminated site; (3) risk assessment for phytoremediation techniques applied in HMs-contaminated sites; and (4) soil remediation cost analysis for contaminated sites in Taiwan.
21140152	We investigated estrogen-inducible green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression patterns using an estrogen receptor fused chimeric transcription activator, XVE, in the monocotyledonous model plant rice (Oryza sativa L.). This system has been shown to be an effective chemical-inducible gene expression system in Arabidopsis and has been applied to other plants in order to investigate gene functions or produce marker-free transgenic plants. However, limited information is available on the correlation between inducer concentration and the expression level of the gene induced in monocots. Here, we produced a transgenic rice integrated estrogen-inducible GFP expression vector, pLex:GFP, and investigated dose-response and time-course patterns of GFP induction in rice calli and seedlings for the first time. With 17-β-estradiol treatment at >5 μM, GFP signals were detected in the entire surface of calli within 2 days of culture. Highest GFP signals were extended for 8 days with estradiol treatment at 25 μM. In three-leaf-stage seedlings, GFP signals in the leaves of pLex:GFP-integrated transgenic lines were weaker than those in the leaves of p35S:GFP-integrated transgenic lines. However, GFP signals in the roots of pLex:GFP- and p35S:GFP-integrated transgenic lines were similar with estradiol treatment at >10 μM. With regard to controlling appropriate gene expression, these results might provide helpful indications on estradiol treatment conditions to be used for the XVE system in rice and other monocots.
21140255	The indica rice cultivar, Teqing, shows a high level of resistance to rice stripe virus (RSV). It is believed that this resistance is controlled by the gene, qSTV11(TQ). For positional cloning of the resistance gene, a set of chromosome single segment substitution lines (CSSSLs) was constructed, all of which had the genetic background of the susceptible japonica cultivar, Lemont, with different single substituted segments of Teqing on chromosome 11. By identifying the resistance of the CSSSLs-2006 in a field within a heavily diseased area, the resistance gene qSTV11(TQ) was mapped between the markers Indel7 and RM229. Furthermore, in that region, six new markers were developed and 52 subregion CSSSLs (CSSSLs-2007) were constructed. The natural infection experiment was conducted again at different sites, with two replicates used in each site in order to identify the resistance phenotypes of the CSSSLs-2007 and resistant/susceptible controls in 2007. Through the results of 2007, qSTV11(TQ) was localized in a region defined by the markers, CAPs1 and Indel4. In order to further confirm the position of qSTV11(TQ), another set of subregion CSSSLs (CSSSLs-2009) was constructed. Finally, qSTV11(TQ) was localized to a 55.7 kb region containing nine annotated genes according to the genome sequence of japonica Nipponbare. The relationship between qSTV11(TQ) and Stvb-i (Hayano-Saito et al. in Theor Appl Genet 101:59-63, 2000) and the reliability of the markers used on both sides of qSTV11(TQ) for marker-assisted breeding of resistance to rice stripe disease are discussed.
21141382	Kaoping River Basin is the largest and most intensively used river basin in Taiwan. In this study, 14 types of land-use patterns in the basin are classified with the aid of the Erdas Imagine process (Erdas, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia) and ArcView geographic information system (GIS) (ESRI, Redlands, California). Results from GIS identification and field verification indicate that orchard gardens, rice paddies, and sugarcane fields dominate the farmland areas in the basin. Investigation results indicate that nonpoint-source (NPS) pollution has significant contributions to the suspended solids load to the Kaoping River during the wet season. The average suspended solids concentrations increased from below 64 mg/ L in dry seasons to more than 1700 mg/L in wet seasons. The Integrated Watershed Management Model (Systech Engineering, Inc., San Ramon, California) was applied to simulate the water quality and evaluate the NPS suspended solids load to the river. Modeling results show that forestation and land-use management are feasible best management practices for NPS suspended solids reduction.
21141470	In order to obtain the antagonistic protein of Bacillus subtilis G87 and definitude its characterization. Methods of ammonium sulfate precipitating and column chromatography analyzing were used to isolate and purify the protein. A purified protein (peak 6-2-1) was obtained which molecular weight was 50.8 kD by SDS-PAGE and isoelectric point was 5.90 by IEF-PAGE. The antifungal protein contained 0.62% saccharide and some proline or hydroxyproline, but no lipid and aromatic amino acid. The inhibitory activity of the antifungal protein would decreased distinctly at the higher temperature (> or = 60 degrees C) and in the condition of alkalinity (pH > 8), but tolerant to ultraviolet radiation, chloroform, trypsin, proteinase K and pepsin. Antifungal protein of Bacillus subtilis G87 was a kind of glycoprotein without aromatic hydrocarbon. It was sensitive to higher temperature and tight alkalinity but not to proteinase analog and ultraviolet radiation et al.
21141803	Using the gradient-corrected BPW91 method and 6311++G(2d,2p) basis sets, it was found that adsorption of benzene by iron atoms forms a multiple-decker sandwich (MDS) geometry for the ground state (GS) of Fe(2)-(C(6)H(6))(3), as Fe(2) is broken. Though decoordination occurs, the ligands are bonded symmetrically to the Fe sites by η(6) (for the two external rings) and two η(3) (for the central ring) Fe-C coordinations; this big amount of Fe-C bonds enhances the stability of the MDS GS. This is unexpected, as the experiment suggests MDS for TM(n)-(C(6)H(6))(m) species of earlier transition metals (TMs) and clusters covered with benzene, i.e., rice-ball (RB) structures, for late 3d atoms. However, preserving Fe(2), an RB state was found, quasi-degenerate with the GS, with a smaller amount of Fe-C contacts and a stronger Fe(2) bond. The MDS shows higher stability for electron attachment and deletion events, but its adiabatic electron affinity, 1.11 eV, differs more from the experiment (0.80 ± 0.1 eV) than the one (0.97 eV) for RB. Thus, MDS and RB states can appear in a sample of Fe(2)-(C(6)H(6))(3). Like the electron affinity, the ionization energy of the complex is also smaller than those of the metal and benzene moieties, but closer to the former, signifying that the electron, delocalized through the 3d-π bonds, is mainly deleted from the metallic units.
21141962	This study investigated the antioxidant content and activity of phenolic acids, anthocyanins, α-tocopherol and γ-oryzanol in pigmented rice (black and red rice) brans. After methanolic extraction, the DPPH free radical scavenging activity and antioxidant activity were measured. The pigmented rice bran extract had a greater reducing power than a normal rice bran extract from a long grain white rice. All bran extracts were highly effective in inhibiting linoleic acid peroxidation (60-85%). High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis of antioxidants in rice bran found that γ-oryzanol (39-63%) and phenolic acids (33-43%) were the major antioxidants in all bran samples, and black rice bran also contained anthocyanins 18-26%. HPLC analysis of anthocyanins showed that pigmented bran was rich in cyanidin-3-glucoside (58-95%). Ferulic acid was the dominant phenolic acid in the rice bran samples. Black rice bran contained gallic, hydroxybenzoic, and protocatechuic acids in higher contents than red rice bran and normal rice bran. Furthermore, the addition of 5% black rice bran to wheat flour used for making bread produced a marked increase in the free radical scavenging and antioxidant activity compared to a control bread.
21142081	Soil rhizospheric metaproteomics is a powerful scientific tool to uncover the interactions between plants and microorganisms in the soil ecosystem. The present study established an extraction method suitable for different soils that could increase the extracted protein content. Close to 1000 separate spots with high reproducibility could be identified in the stained 2-DE gels. Among the spots, 189 spots representing 122 proteins on a 2-DE gel of rice soil samples were successfully identified by MALDI-TOF/TOF-MS. These proteins mainly originated from rice and microorganisms. They were involved in protein, energy, nucleotide, and secondary metabolisms, as well as signal transduction and resistance. Three characteristics of the crop rhizospheric metaproteomics seemed apparent: (1) approximately one-third of the protein spots could not be identified by MALDI-TOF/TOF/MS, (2) the conservative proteins from plants formed a feature distribution of crop rhizospheric metaproteome, and (3) there were very complex interactions between plants and microorganisms existing in a crop rhizospheric soil. Further functional analysis on the identified proteins unveiled various metabolic pathways and signal transductions involved in the soil biotic community. This study provides a paradigm for metaproteomic research on soil biology.
21142577
21142782	Gray leaf spot (GLS) disease of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) and kikuyugrass (Pennisetum clandestinum) in golf courses in California was first noted in 2001 and 2003, respectively, and within 5 years had become well established. The causal agent of the disease is the fungus Magnaporthe grisea, which is known to consist primarily of clonal lineages that are highly host specific. Therefore, our objective was to investigate host specificity and population dynamics among isolates associated primarily from perennial ryegrass and kikuyugrass since the disease emerged at similar times in California. We also obtained isolates from additional hosts (tall fescue, St. Augustinegrass, weeping lovegrass, and rice) and from the eastern United States for comparative purposes. A total of 38 polymorphic amplified fragment length polymorphism makers were scored from 450 isolates which clustered by host with high bootstrap support (71 to 100%). Genetic structure between kikuyugrass and perennial ryegrass isolates differed significantly. Isolates from kikuyugrass were genotypically diverse (n = 34), possessed both mating types, and some tests for random mating could not be rejected, whereas isolates from perennial ryegrass were less genotypically diverse (n = 10) and only consisted of a single mating type. Low genotypic diversity was also found among the other host specific isolates which also only consisted of a single mating type. This is the first study to document evidence for the potential of sexual reproduction to occur in M. grisea isolates not associated with rice (Oryza sativa). Moreover, given the significant host specificity and contrasting genetic structures between turfgrass-associated isolates, the recent emergence of GLS on various grass hosts in California suggests that potential cultural practices or environmental changes have become conducive for the disease and that the primary inoculum may have already been present in the state, despite the fact that two genotypes associated with perennial ryegrass and St. Augustinegrass in California were the same as isolates collected from the eastern United States.
21143584	An alternative to traditional weaning methods known as baby-led weaning (BLW) appears to be emerging in the UK. This approach advocates bypassing typical weaning practices of spoon-feeding puréed foods or baby rice, encouraging instead the introduction of foods in their whole form to the infant from 6 months old. A key tenet of BLW is self-feeding. Anecdotally, the practice of BLW appears to be gaining in popularity. However, research evidence is scant, and little is known about the nature of BLW and the demography of those who utilize it. This study aimed to characterize a sample of women who have chosen to adopt the BLW method and to describe associated attitudes and behaviours. Six hundred and fifty five mothers with a child between 6 months and 12 months of age provided information about timing of weaning onset, use of spoon-feeding and purées, and experiences of weaning and meal times. Those participants who used a BLW method reported little use of spoon-feeding and purées and were more likely to have a higher education, higher occupation, be married and have breastfed their infant. BLW was associated with a later introduction of complementary foods, greater participation in meal times and exposure to family foods. Levels of anxiety about weaning and feeding were lower in mothers who adopted a BLW approach. These findings provide an insight into BLW practices and the characteristics of a small population of users.
21143680	Most terrestrial plants form arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM), mutualistic associations with soil fungi of the order Glomeromycota. The obligate biotrophic fungi trade mineral nutrients, mainly phosphate (P(i)), for carbohydrates from the plants. Under conditions of high exogenous phosphate supply, when the plant can meet its own P requirements without the fungus, AM are suppressed, an effect which could be interpreted as an active strategy of the plant to limit carbohydrate consumption of the fungus by inhibiting its proliferation in the roots. However, the mechanisms involved in fungal inhibition are poorly understood. Here, we employ a transcriptomic approach to get insight into potential shifts in metabolic activity and symbiotic signalling, and in the defence status of plants exposed to high P(i) levels. We show that in mycorrhizal roots of petunia, a similar set of symbiosis-related genes is expressed as in mycorrhizal roots of Medicago, Lotus and rice. P(i) acts systemically to repress symbiotic gene expression and AM colonization in the root. In established mycorrhizal roots, P(i) repressed symbiotic gene expression rapidly, whereas the inhibition of colonization followed with a lag of more than a week. Taken together, these results suggest that P(i) acts by repressing essential symbiotic genes, in particular genes encoding enzymes of carotenoid and strigolactone biosynthesis, and symbiosis-associated phosphate transporters. The role of these effects in the suppression of symbiosis under high P(i) conditions is discussed.
21143719	Purple acid phosphatases (PAPs) are a family of metallo-phosphoesterases involved in a variety of physiological functions, especially phosphate deficiency adaptations in plants. We identified 26 putative PAP genes by a genome-wide analysis of rice (Oryza sativa), 24 of which have isolated EST sequences in the dbEST database. Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that 25 of these genes possess sets of metal-ligating residues typical of known PAPs. Phylogenetic analysis classified the 26 rice and 29 Arabidopsis PAPs into three main groups and seven subgroups. We detected transcripts of 21 PAP genes in roots or leaves of rice seedlings. The expression levels of ten PAP genes were up-regulated by both phosphate deprivation and over-expression of the transcription factor OsPHR2. These PAP genes all contained one or two OsPHR2 binding elements in their promoter regions, implying that they are directly regulated by OsPHR2. Both acid phosphatase (AP) and surface secretory acid phosphatase (SAP) activity assays showed that the up-regulation of PAPs by Pi starvation, OsPHR2 over-expression, PHO2 knockout or OsSPX1 RNA interference led to an increase in AP and SAP activity in rice roots. This study reveals the potential for developing technologies for crop improvement in phosphorus use efficiency.
21144655	This work describes the synthesis, hydration and durability behavior of β-Ca(2)SiO(4) doped with chromium. β-Ca(2)SiO(4) is a component of commercial cement. Rice hull is an agricultural residue containing about 10% of silica as inorganic constituent. The controlled burning of rice hull was used to obtain this biogenic silica, used as starting material. In many situations chromium is added during cement preparation in order to promote encapsulation, at temperatures around 1500°C. The synthesis presented here is completed at 800°C, causing a substantial reduction in energy consumption. Moreover, chromium is chemically bonded to cement crystal, which is safer than simple physical encapsulation. Results show that chromium can be inserted into the structure of β-Ca(2)SiO(4) up to 1% (molar ratio). Hydration degree and durability studies show that insertion of chromium causes no deleterious effects on physical and chemical properties of these doped materials when compared to β-pure Ca(2)SiO(4).
21144796	Rice branching, including the formation of tillers and panicle branches, has been well investigated over the past several years because of its agronomic importance. A major breakthrough in elucidating rice tillering in the recent years was the discovery of strigolactones, a specific group of terpenoid lactones that can inhibit axillary bud outgrowth. Since that discovery, new tillering mutants, that is, dwarf 27 (d27) or dwarf14 (d14, also reported as d88 or htd2), have been identified with reduced strigolactone levels or strigolactone response. DWARF27 (D27) and DWARF14 (D14) probably act on strigolactone biosynthesis and signal transduction, respectively. Additionally, several genes controlling panicle branches have been identified recently. DEP1 and IPA1/WFP are essential dominant/semidominant regulators that determine rice panicle branches and thus affect the grain yields. More importantly, dep1 and ipa1 alleles have been shown to be applicable for the improvement of rice grain yields in molecular breeding.
21145231	Effects of different pretreatment protocols in (NH(4))(2)HPO(4) activation of rice straw on porous activated carbon evolution were evaluated. The pore structure, morphology and surface chemistry of obtained activated carbons were investigated by nitrogen adsorption, scanning electron microscopy and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. It was found that pretreatment combining impregnation with (NH(4))(2)HPO(4) and preoxidation could significantly affect the physicochemical properties of prepared activated carbons. The apparent surface area and total pore volume as high as 1154 m(2)/g and 0.670 cm(3)/g were obtained respectively, when combined process of impregnation followed by preoxidation at 200°C and activation at 700°C was carried out. Meanwhile, the activated carbon yield and maximum methylene blue adsorption capacity up to 41.14% and 129.5 mg/g were achieved, respectively. The results exhibited that (NH(4))(2)HPO(4) could be an effective activating agent for producing activated carbons from rice straw.
2114545	Thirty four samples of rice bran, of which 9 were from raw (untreated) rice (RR) and 25 from parboiled rice (PbR) were collected from commercial rice mills in and around Madras and analysed for storage mycoflora and mycotoxins. Fungi of the Aspergillus flavus group were present in 29 of the 34 samples (8 from RR and 21 from PbR) in quantities ranging from less than 1-432 thousand propagules/g, though not always as the dominant mycoflora. Fungal numbers were usually higher in RR than in PbR samples. Five of the 9 RR samples and 6 of the 25 PbR samples were positive for aflatoxins. Among 29 isolates of A. flavus obtained from the bran samples, 16 isolates -6 from RR bran and 10 from PbR bran - were found to be toxigenic in vitro. Some isolates of A. candidus also seemed to produce aflatoxin and other fluorescent substances.
21146217	High arsenic (As) concentrations in soil may lead to elevated concentrations of arsenic in agricultural products. Field experiments were conducted to examine the effects of water management (WM) and Phosphorus (P) rates on As uptake, rice growth, yield and yield attributes of winter (boro) and monsoon (aman) rice in an As contaminated soil-water at Gobindagonj, Gaibandha, Bangladesh in 2004 and 2005. Significantly, the highest average grain yields (6.88±0.07 t ha(-1) in boro 6.38±0.06 t ha(-1) in aman) were recorded in permanent raised bed (PRB; aerobic WM: Eh=+360 mV) plus 100% P amendment. There was a 12% yield increase over conventional till on flat (CTF; anaerobic WM: Eh=-56 mV) at the same P level. In boro, the As content in grain and As content in straw were about 3 and 6 times higher in CTF compared to PRB, respectively. The highest total As content (0.646±0.01 ppm in grain and 10.93±0.19 ppm in straw) was recorded under CTF, and the lowest total As content (0.247±0.01 and 1.554±0.09 ppm in grain and straw, respectively) was recorded under PRB (aerobic WM). The results suggest that grain and straw As are closely associated in boro rice. The furrow irrigation approach of the PRB treatments consistently reduced irrigation input by 29-31% for boro and 27-30% for aman rice relative to CTF treatments in 2004 and 2005, respectively, thus reducing the amount of As added to the soil from the As-contaminated irrigation water. Yearly, 30% less As was deposited to the soil compared to CTF system through irrigation water during boro season. High As concentrations in grain and straw in rice grown using CTF in the farmers' field, and the fact that using PRB reduced grain As concentrations to value less than half of the proposed food hygiene standard.
21147345	The development of an electrochemical immunosensor incorporated in a micro fluidic cell for quantification of citrinin (CIT) mycotoxin in rice samples is described for the first time. Both CIT present in rice samples and immobilized on a gold surface electrodeposited on a glassy carbon (GC) electrode modified with a cysteamine self-assembled monolayer were allowed to compete for the monoclonal mouse anti-CIT IgG antibody (mAb-CIT) present in solution. Then, an excess of rabbit anti mouse IgG (H+L) labelled with the horseradish peroxidase (secAb-HRP) was added, which reacts with the mAb-CIT which is in the immuno-complex formed with the immobilized CIT on the electrode surface. The HPR, in the presence of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) catalyzes the oxidation of catechol (H(2)Q) whose back electrochemical reduction was detected on a GC electrode at -0.15 V vs Ag/AgCl by amperometric measurements. The current measured is proportional to the enzymatic activity and inversely proportional to the amount of CIT present in the rice samples. This immunosensor for CIT showed a range of work between 0.5 and 50 ng mL(-1). The detection (LOD) and the quantification (LOQ) limits were 0.1 and 0.5 ng mL(-1), respectively. The coefficients of variation intra- and inter-assays were less than 6%. The electrochemical detection could be done within 2 min and the assay total time was 45 min. The immunosensor was provided to undertake at least 80 determinations for different samples with a minimum previous pre-treatment. Our electrochemical immunosensor showed a higher sensitivity and reduced analysis time compared to other analytical methods such as chromatographic methods. This methodology is fast, selective and very sensitive. Thus, the immunosensor showed to be a very useful tool to determine CIT in samples of cereals, mainly rice samples.
21147527	We improved the CaCCO process for rice straw by its incorporation with a step of lime pretreatment at room temperature (RT). We firstly optimized the RT-lime pretreatment for the lignocellulosic part. When the ratio of lime/dry-biomass was 0.2 (w/w), the RT lime-pretreatment for 7-d resulted in an effect on the enzymatic saccharification of cellulose and xylan equivalent to that of the pretreatment at 120°C for 1h. Sucrose, starch and β-1,3-1,4-glucan, which could be often detected in rice straw, were mostly stable under the RT-lime pretreatment condition. Then, the pretreatment condition in the conventional CaCCO process was modified by the adaptation of the optimized RT lime-pretreatment, resulting in significantly better carbohydrate recoveries via enzymatic saccharification than those of the CaCCO process (120°C for 1 h). Thus, the improved CaCCO process (the RT-CaCCO process) could preserve/pretreat the feedstock at RT in a wet form with minimum loss of carbohydrates.
21147718	Information on nutritional adequacy and inadequacy of dietary patterns is useful when making practical dietary recommendations. We examined nutritional inadequacy of dietary patterns among 3756 Japanese female dietetic students aged 18-20 years. Diet was assessed with a validated self-administered diet history questionnaire (DHQ). Dietary patterns were determined from intakes of 33 food groups summarized from 147 foods assessed with DHQ, by cluster analysis. Nutritional inadequacy for the selected 21 nutrients in each dietary pattern was examined using the reference values given in the Dietary Reference Intakes for the Japanese (DRIs) as the gold standard. Four dietary patterns identified were labeled 'fish and vegetables' (n=697), 'meat and eggs' (n=1008), 'rice' (n=1041), and 'bread and confectionaries' (n=1010) patterns. The 'fish and vegetables' pattern, characterized by high intakes of vegetables, potatoes, pulses, fruits, fish, and dairy products, showed significantly the lowest percentage of subjects with inadequate intakes for 15 nutrients, except for the highest prevalence in sodium. In contrast, 'bread and confectionaries' pattern, characterized by high intakes of bread, confectionaries, and soft drinks, showed the highest prevalence of inadequate intakes for nine nutrients. The median number of nutrients not meeting the DRIs as a marker of overall nutritional inadequacy was five in 'fish and vegetables' pattern. It was significantly lower than nine both in 'meat and eggs' and 'rice', and 10 in 'bread and confectionaries' patterns (p<0.001). A dietary pattern high in vegetables, fruits, fish, and some others showed better profile of nutritional adequacy except for sodium in young Japanese women.
21148627	Rice yield and heading date are two distinct traits controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTLs). The dissection of molecular mechanisms underlying rice yield traits is important for developing high-yielding rice varieties. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of Ghd8, a major QTL with pleiotropic effects on grain yield, heading date, and plant height. Two sets of near isogenic line populations were developed for the cloning of Ghd8. Ghd8 was narrowed down to a 20-kb region containing two putative genes, of which one encodes the OsHAP3 subunit of a CCAAT-box binding protein (HAP complex); this gene was regarded as the Ghd8 candidate. A complementary test confirmed the identity and pleiotropic effects of the gene; interestingly, the genetic effect of Ghd8 was dependent on its genetic background. By regulating Ehd1, RFT1, and Hd3a, Ghd8 delayed flowering under long-day conditions, but promoted flowering under short-day conditions. Ghd8 up-regulated MOC1, a key gene controlling tillering and branching; this increased the number of tillers, primary and secondary branches, thus producing 50% more grains per plant. The ectopic expression of Ghd8 in Arabidopsis caused early flowering by 10 d-a situation similar to the one observed by its homolog AtHAP3b, when compared to wild-type under long-day conditions; these findings indicate the conserved function of Ghd8 and AtHAP3b in flowering in Arabidopsis. Our results demonstrated the important roles of Ghd8 in rice yield formation and flowering, as well as its opposite functions in flowering between rice and Arabidopsis under long-day conditions.
21150096	Over-accumulation of lysine-rich binding protein (BiP) in the rice endosperm caused strong endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and reduced seed storage proteins, resulting in a relative increase in nutritionally balanced non-seed storage proteins. We show that transgenic rice with over-accumulated BiP was a high-lysine rice germplasm and that the over-accumulation of BiP in the endosperm offered a unique strategy to improve the lysine content of cereal grains.
21150100	Rice has evolved metabolic and morphological adaptations to low-oxygen stress to grow in submerged paddy fields. To characterize the molecular components that mediate the response to hypoxia in rice, we identified low-oxygen stress early response genes by microarray analysis. Among the highly responsive genes, five genes, OsHREF1 to OsHREF5, shared strong homology. They encoded small proteins harboring two EF-hands, typical Ca(2+)-binding motifs. Homologous genes were found in many land plants, including SlHREF in tomato, which is also strongly induced by hypoxia. SlHREF induction was detected in both roots and shoots of tomato plants under hypoxia. With the exception of OsHREF5, OsHREF expression was unaffected by drought, salinity, cold, or osmotic stress. Fluorescent signals of green fluorescent protein-fused OsHREFs were detected in the cytosol and nucleus. Ruthenium red, an inhibitor of intracellular Ca(2+) release, repressed induction of OsHREF1-4 under hypoxia. The HREFs may be related to the Ca(2+) response to hypoxia.
21150105	The physicochemical properties of rice flour and wheat flour influenced the oil uptake of tempura frying batter. Rice flour was better than wheat flour in the overall quality and crispness of the fried tempura batter. Rice flour resisted oil absorption more than wheat flour, and a higher level of apparent starch amylose and higher consistency/breakdown ratio of the pasting properties led to a lower oil uptake of the batter. Super hard EM10 rice showed the highest apparent amylose content and higher consistency/breakdown ratio than the other flour samples, the batter from EM10 revealing the lowest oil content after frying among all the batters examined. The apparent amylose content, consistency/breakdown ratio and oil absorption index are proposed as useful guides for oil absorption when frying from among the physicochemical properties that influence the oil content of fried batter. Our proposal for the "oil absorption index" could be a simple, although not perfect method for estimating the oil content of batter flour.
21150304	When plants sense the attack of microbial organisms, they initiate a series of defense responses. One of the most important defense components is the production of phytoalexins that are newly synthesized as anti-microbial secondary metabolites; however, knowledge about the signaling components regulating phytoalexin biosynthesis is limited. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are key components in the defense signaling evoked by recognition of microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) that regulate several defense responses including phytoalexin biosynthesis. In Arabidopsis, biosynthesis of an indole-derived phytoalexin, camalexin, is regulated by MAPK cascades including AtMPK3, AtMPK4 and AtMPK6. Recently, we characterized a novel MAPK cascade in rice (OsMKK4-OsMPK3/OsMPK6) that induces production of diterpenoid phytoalexins by regulating the expression of their biosynthetic genes. Downstream signals of MAPK cascades are thought to be mediated by several transcription factors. To date, AtWRKY33 and OsTGAP1 have been identified as transcriptional activators of phytoalexin biosynthesis in Arabidopsis and rice. Here, we discuss and compare the regulatory mechanisms for phytoalexin biosynthesis through MAPK cascades and transcription factors in Arabidopsis and rice.
21151904	A large proportion of the nitrate (NO(3)(-)) acquired by plants from soil is actively transported via members of the NRT families of NO(3)(-) transporters. In Arabidopsis, the NRT1 family has eight functionally characterised members and predominantly comprises low-affinity transporters; the NRT2 family contains seven members which appear to be high-affinity transporters; and there are two NRT3 (NAR2) family members which are known to participate in high-affinity transport. A modified reciprocal best hit (RBH) approach was used to identify putative orthologues of the Arabidopsis NRT genes in the four fully sequenced grass genomes (maize, rice, sorghum, Brachypodium). We also included the poplar genome in our analysis to establish whether differences between Arabidopsis and the grasses may be generally applicable to monocots and dicots. Our analysis reveals fundamental differences between Arabidopsis and the grass species in the gene number and family structure of all three families of NRT transporters. All grass species possessed additional NRT1.1 orthologues and appear to lack NRT1.6/NRT1.7 orthologues. There is significant separation in the NRT2 phylogenetic tree between NRT2 genes from dicots and grass species. This indicates that determination of function of NRT2 genes in grass species will not be possible in cereals based simply on sequence homology to functionally characterised Arabidopsis NRT2 genes and that proper functional analysis will be required. Arabidopsis has a unique NRT3.2 gene which may be a fusion of the NRT3.1 and NRT3.2 genes present in all other species examined here. This work provides a framework for future analysis of NO(3)(-) transporters and NO(3)(-) transport in grass crop species.
21151909	The brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) is one of the most serious insect pests of rice in Asia. However, little is known about the mechanisms responsible for the development, wing dimorphism and sex difference in this species. Genomic information for BPH is currently unavailable, and, therefore, transcriptome and expression profiling data for this species are needed as an important resource to better understand the biological mechanisms of BPH. In this study, we performed de novo transcriptome assembly and gene expression analysis using short-read sequencing technology (Illumina) combined with a tag-based digital gene expression (DGE) system. The transcriptome analysis assembles the gene information for different developmental stages, sexes and wing forms of BPH. In addition, we constructed six DGE libraries: eggs, second instar nymphs, fifth instar nymphs, brachypterous female adults, macropterous female adults and macropterous male adults. Illumina sequencing revealed 85,526 unigenes, including 13,102 clusters and 72,424 singletons. Transcriptome sequences larger than 350 bp were subjected to Gene Orthology (GO) and KEGG Orthology (KO) annotations. To analyze the DGE profiling, we mainly compared the gene expression variations between eggs and second instar nymphs; second and fifth instar nymphs; fifth instar nymphs and three types of adults; brachypterous and macropterous female adults as well as macropterous female and male adults. Thousands of genes showed significantly different expression levels based on the various comparisons. And we randomly selected some genes to confirm their altered expression levels by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The obtained BPH transcriptome and DGE profiling data provide comprehensive gene expression information at the transcriptional level that could facilitate our understanding of the molecular mechanisms from various physiological aspects including development, wing dimorphism and sex difference in BPH.
21153026	OsGSTL2, encoding glutathione S-transferase, is a lambda class gene on chromosome 3 of rice (Oryza sativa L.). RNA blot analysis and semi-quantitative RT-PCR assays demonstrated that the transcription of OsGSTL2 in rice roots treated with chlorsulfuron increased significantly. To further understand OsGSTL2 promoter activity, a DNA fragment (GST2171) of 2,171 bp upstream of the OsGSTL2 coding region was isolated. In silico sequence analysis revealed that this fragment contains stress-regulated regulatory elements, hormone-responsive elements and three transposable elements. To define the core promoter sequence, a series of 5' truncation derivatives of GST2171 were fused to uidA gene. The chimeric genes were introduced into rice plants via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The expression of the GST2171::GUS transgene varied considerably. GUS staining indicated that the uidA gene is expressed in young seedlings, older leaves, flowering glumes and seeds, but not in older roots. Quantitative fluorescence assays revealed that the expression of the uidA gene is strong in young seedlings and decreases gradually over a period of 25 days. To our surprise, among the 5' truncation derivatives, the shortest promoter GST525 showed the highest GUS expression, and the second shortest promoter GST962 showed the lowest GUS expression. The uidA gene expression in the roots of transgenic rice seedlings is upregulated by chlorsulfuron, glyphosate, salicylic acid (SA) and naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). The possible roles of the repetitive elements on the OsGSTL2 promoter were discussed in terms of transcription repression and promoter induction by herbicides and hormones.
2115305	Field studies of a rice irrigation project in Mayo-Danai, North Cameroon permitted a direct comparison between pre- and post-development data relating to schistosomiasis and malaria infection. A stratified sample of 4,000 inhabitants, representing 8% of the population living in 28 areas at the time of the first survey, was investigated 5 times between 1979 and 1985. Due to the significant population increase since 1982, 1,500 persons were added to the initial sample. The prevalence of schistosomiasis and malaria remained constant over the 6 years. No changes in the transmission sites were observed. Malacological investigations showed a decrease in the snail population in the project area. Sanitation activities (i.e., drain cleaning and well construction) and decreased rainfall contributed to this situation. The prevalence of infection among the migrants was low. High prevalence of schistosomiasis was found only in villages located along a previously contaminated temporary river.
21153625	The blast resistance gene Pik-p, mapping to the Pik locus on the long arm of rice chromosome 11, was isolated by map-based in silico cloning. Four NBS-LRR genes are present in the target region of cv. Nipponbare, and a presence/absence analysis in the Pik-p carrier cv. K60 excluded two of these as candidates for Pik-p. The other two candidates (KP3 and KP4) were expressed in cv. K60. A loss-of-function experiment by RNAi showed that both KP3 and KP4 are required for Pik-p function, while a gain-of-function experiment by complementation test revealed that neither KP3 nor KP4 on their own can impart resistance, but that resistance was expressed when both were introduced simultaneously. Both Pikp-1 (KP3) and Pikp-2 (KP4) encode coiled-coil NBS-LRR proteins and share, respectively, 95 and 99% peptide identity with the two alleles, Pikm1-TS and Pikm2-TS. The Pikp-1 and Pikp-2 sequences share only limited homology. Their sequence allowed Pik-p to be distinguished from Pik, Pik-s, Pik-m and Pik-h. Both Pikp-1 and Pikp-2 were constitutively expressed in cv. K60 and only marginally induced by blast infection.
21153714	Increasing human health and longevity is of global interest. Environmental, genetic, and stochastic factors all affect longevity. Among these factors, the environment is extremely important. To investigate the relationship between the environment and longevity, we studied the environment in Zhongxiang (China), where the inhabitants commonly have long life spans. Air was analyzed for negative oxygen ions, SO2, and inhalable particles, while drinking water and rice were analyzed for macro- and micro-elements. The air quality in this area was determined to be grade I with high negative oxygen ion content and low SO2 and inhalable particle contents. Apart from Fe, Mn, and F, all tested elements and the pH were within national standards and World Health Organization guidelines. The percentage of long-lived people in the area was closely related to the macro- and micro-element contents of their staple food, rice. The elements in rice could be classified into three categories according to their effect on longevity: Sr, Ca, Al, Mo, and Se, which were positively correlated with longevity; Fe, Mn, Zn, Cr, P, Mg, and K, which had a weak effect on local longevity, and Cu and Ba, which had a negative effect on longevity.
21156152	To rapidly detect specific genes, crude extracts prepared from rice seed grains were used as templates for PCR, the PCR products were digested with restriction enzymes or urasil-DNA glycosylase, and then matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) was used to detect amplified DNA. It was possible to amplify small DNA fragments (50-60bp), but not large ones (>200bp), using crude extracts as the PCR template. This method can be completed within 1h, including extractions, and is well suited to automation for high-throughput analyses.
21156329	Enzyme activities in the vacuole have an important impact on the net concentration of sucrose. In sugarcane (Saccharum hybrid), immunolabelling demonstrated that a soluble acid invertase (β-fructofuranosidase; EC 3.2.1.26) is present in the vacuole of storage parenchyma cells during sucrose accumulation. Examination of sequences from sugarcane, barley and rice showed that the N-terminus of the invertase sequence contains a signal anchor and a tyrosine motif, characteristic of single-pass membrane proteins destined for lysosomal compartments. The N-terminal peptide from the barley invertase was shown to be capable of directing the green fluorescent protein to the vacuole in sugarcane cells. The results suggest that soluble acid invertase is sorted to the vacuole in a membrane-bound form.
21156541	Magnaporthe oryzae is described as a new species distinct from M. grisea. Gene trees were inferred for Magnaporthe species using portions of three genes: actin, beta-tubulin, and calmodulin. These gene trees were found to be concordant and distinguished two distinct clades within M. grisea. One clade is associated with the grass genus Digitaria and is therefore nomenclaturally tied to M. grisea. The other clade is associated with Oryza sativa and other cultivated grasses and is described as a new species, M. oryzae. While no morphological characters as yet distinguish them, M. oryzae is distinguished from M. grisea by several base substitutions in each of three loci as well as results from laboratory matings; M.oryzae and M. grisea are not interfertile. Given that M. oryzae is the scientifically correct name for isolates associated with rice blast and grey leaf spot, continued use of M. grisea for such isolates would require formal nomenclatural conservation.
21156806	Eukaryotic organisms have developed diverse mechanisms for the acquisition of iron, which is required for their survival. Graminaceous plants use a chelation strategy. They secrete phytosiderophore compounds, which solubilize iron in the soil, and then take up the resulting iron-phytosiderophore complexes. Bacteria and mammals also secrete siderophores to acquire iron. Although phytosiderophore secretion is crucial for plant growth, its molecular mechanism remains unknown. Here, we show that the efflux of deoxymugineic acid, the primary phytosiderophore from rice and barley, involves the TOM1 and HvTOM1 genes, respectively. Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing TOM1 or HvTOM1 released (14)C-labeled deoxymugineic acid but not (14)C-labeled nicotianamine, a structural analog and biosynthetic precursor of deoxymugineic acid, indicating that the TOM1 and HvTOM1 proteins are the phytosiderophore efflux transporters. Under conditions of iron deficiency, rice and barley roots express high levels of TOM1 and HvTOM1, respectively, and the overexpression of these genes increased tolerance to iron deficiency. In rice roots, the efficiency of deoxymugineic acid secretion was enhanced by overexpression of TOM1 and decreased by its repression, providing further evidence that TOM1 encodes the efflux transporter of deoxymugineic acid. We have also identified two genes encoding efflux transporters of nicotianamine, ENA1 and ENA2. Our identification of phytosiderophore efflux transporters has revealed the final piece in the molecular machinery of iron acquisition in graminaceous plants.
21159186	Oryza longistaminata, an AA genome type (2 n = 24), originates from Africa and is closely related to Asian cultivated rice (O. sativa L.). It contains various valuable traits with respect to tolerance to biotic and abiotic stress, QTLs with agronomically important traits and high ability to use nitrogen efficiently (NUE). However, only limited genomic or transcriptomic data of O. longistaminata are currently available. In this study we present the first comprehensive characterization of the O. longistaminata root transcriptome using 454 pyrosequencing. One sequencing run using a normalized cDNA library from O. longistaminata roots adapted to low N conditions generated 337,830 reads, which assembled into 41,189 contigs and 30,178 singletons. By similarity search against protein databases, putative functions were assigned to over 34,510 uni-ESTs. Comparison with ESTs derived from cultivated rice collections revealed expressed genes across different plant species, however 16.7% of the O. longistaminata ESTs had not been detected as expressed in O. sativa. Additionally, 15.7% had no significant similarity to known sequences. RT-PCR and Southern blot analyses confirmed the expression of selected novel transcripts in O. longistaminata. Our results show that one run using a Genome Sequencer FLX from 454 Life Science/Roche generates sufficient genomic information for adequate de novo assembly of a large number of transcripts in a wild rice species, O. longistaminata. The generated sequence data are publicly available and will facilitate gene discovery in O. longistaminata and rice functional genomic studies. The large number of abundant of novel ESTs suggests different metabolic activity in O. longistaminata roots in comparison to O. sativa roots.
21161304	In plants, plasmodesmata (PD) are intercellular channels that function in both metabolite exchange and the transport of proteins and RNAs. Currently, many of the PD structural and regulatory components remain to be elucidated. Receptor-like kinases (RLKs) belonging to a notably expanded protein family in plants compared to the animal kingdom have been shown to play important roles in plant growth, development, pathogen resistance, and cell death. In this study, cell biological approaches were used to identify potential PD-associated RLK proteins among proteins contained within cell walls isolated from rice callus cultured cells. A total of 15 rice RLKs were investigated to determine their subcellular localization, using an Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression system. Of these six PD-associated RLKs were identified based on their co-localization with a viral movement protein that served as a PD marker, plasmolysis experiments, and subcellular localization at points of wall contact between spongy mesophyll cells. These findings suggest potential PD functions in apoplasmic signaling in response to environmental stimuli and developmental inputs.
21161331	"zebra" mutants have alternating green and chlorotic crossbands on leaf blades and are widely distributed in monocotyledonous crops. Most recently, we cloned the first responsible gene from rice, ZEBRA2, which also leads to the phenotype of rice preharvest sprouting. ZEBRA2, a single-copy gene in the rice genome, encodes a carotenoid isomerase (CRTISO), the key enzyme catalyzing the conversion of cis-lycopene to all-trans lycopene. ZEBRA2 shares high identity with known CRTISOs from other species. Expression analysis via both RT-PCR and ZEBRA2-promoter-β-glucuronidase (GUS) transgenic rice indicates that ZEBRA2 is predominantly expressed in mesophyll cells of mature leaves where active photosynthesis occurs. Consistent with the alteration in agronomic traits, the zebra2 mutant exhibits decreased photosynthetic rate and chlorophyll content. Mutation of the ZEBRA2 gene results in the accumulation of all-trans-lycopene precursor, prolycopene (7Z,9Z,7'Z,9'Z tetra cis-lycopene), in dark-grown zebra2 tissues. Light-grown zebra2 mutant exhibits the characteristic "zebra" phenotype and decreased level of lutein, the xanthophyll that is essential for efficient chl triplet quenching. More severe phenotype of the zebra2 mutant under high light intensity indicates that "zebra" phenotype might be caused by photooxidative damages. We conclude that ZEBRA2 is involved in photoprotection in rice.
21161392	The Dof (DNA binding with One Finger) family represents a classic zinc-finger transcription factors involved with multifarious roles exclusively in plants. There exists great diversity in terms of number of Dof genes observed in different crops. In current study, a total of 28 putative Dof genes have been predicted in silico from the recently available whole genome shotgun sequence of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench (with assigned accession numbers TPA:BK006983-BK007006 and TPA:BK007079-BK007082). The predicted SbDof genes are distributed on nine out of ten chromosomes of sorghum and most of these genes lack introns based on canonical intron/exon structure. Phylogenetic analysis of 28 SbDof proteins resulted in four subgroups constituting six clusters. The comparative phylogenetic analysis of these Dof proteins along with 30 rice and 36 Arabidopsis Dof proteins revealed six major groups similar to what has been observed earlier for rice and Arabidopsis. Motif analysis revealed the presence of conserved 50-52 amino acids Dof domain uniformly distributed across all the 28 Dof proteins of sorghum. The in silico cis-regulatory elements analysis of these SbDof genes suggested its diverse functions associated with light responsiveness, endosperm specific gene expression, hormone responsiveness, meristem specific expression and stress responsiveness.
21162007	Papulaspora immersa H. H. Hotson was isolated from roots and leaves of Smallanthus sonchifolius (Poepp. and Endl.) H. Rob. (Asteraceae), traditionally known as Yacon. The fungus was cultured in rice, and, from the AcOEt fraction, 14 compounds were isolated. Among them, (22E,24R)-8,14-epoxyergosta-4,22-diene-3,6-dione (4), 2,3-epoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene-c-1,c-4,8-triol (10), and the chromone papulasporin (13) were new secondary metabolites. The spectral data of the known natural products were compared with the literature data, and their structures were established as the (24R)-stigmast-4-en-3-one (1), 24-methylenecycloartan-3β-ol (2), (22E,24R)-ergosta-4,6,8(14),22-tetraen-3-one (3), (-)-(3R,4R)-4-hydroxymellein (5), (-)-(3R)-5-hydroxymellein (6), 6,8-dihydroxy-3-methylisocoumarin (7), (-)-(4S)-4,8-dihydroxy-α-tetralone (8), naphthalene-1,8-diol (9), 6,7,8-trihydroxy-3-methylisocoumarin (11), 7-hydroxy-2,5-dimethylchromone (12), and tyrosol (14). Compound 4 showed the highest cytotoxic activity against the human tumor cell lines MDA-MB435 (melanoma), HCT-8 (colon), SF295 (glioblastoma), and HL-60 (promyelocytic leukemia), with IC₅₀ values of 3.3, 14.7, 5.0 and 1.6 μM, respectively. Strong synergistic effects were also observed with compound 5 and some of the isolated steroidal compounds.
2116246	Recently we reported on the participation of dietary antigens in the pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy. Particularly, the glomerular deposition of dietary antigens (casein, soybean protein, rice protein) was observed in some cases with IgA nephropathy. It is known that human urinary pepsin (HUP) prepared from the urine of a healthy adult acts as an immune complexase at neutral pH. In this study, the effects of incubation with HUP on the glomerular deposition of dietary antigens was investigated by an immunofluorescence technique in 48 patients with IgA nephropathy, four patients with Henoch-Schönlein purpura nephritis and 69 with other glomerulonephritides. In 33 cases (68.8%) soybean protein and in 12 (25.0%) casein was found in biopsies of patients with IgA nephropathy. After a 3-day incubation with HUP there was no change in the deposition of IgA in 12 cases, a decrease in 22 and complete elimination in 14 cases. The deposits of soybean protein increased in 12 cases, did not change in 20, decreased or was abolished in five and was positively converted in 11. Exceptionally, in five patients treated with HUP, the deposition of soybean protein appeared concomitantly with the disappearance of IgA deposits. Such a concomitance did not occur either in other glomerulonephritides or in studies of other dietary antigens. Thus it appears that soybean protein may be deposited in the glomerular mesangium as an antigen in some patients with IgA nephropathy.
21163697	Silage production from rice straw and whole-plant forage paddy rice is increasing in Japan because of decrease in rice consumption. One potential use for this silage is bioethanol production. In this study, we analyzed the effectiveness of three different commercially available cellulases at saccharification of sun-dried rice straw, ensiled rice straw, and rice whole-crop silage (WCS). Furthermore, the ethanol productivity of the simultaneous saccharification and ethanol fermentation process (SSF) from the same plant substrates was analyzed. Among the three kinds of cellulases tested (Novozymes NS50013, Genencor GC220, and Acremonium cellulase), Acremonium cellulase showed the highest ethanol production for the three plant substrates, and the WCS produced the highest ethanol level. Analysis of the enzymatic degradation activity of the cellulases revealed that Acremonium cellulase contained remarkably high glucoamylase and pectinase side activities relative to the other cellulase preparations. The addition of glucoamylase and pectinase to the other two cellulases significantly increased ethanol productivity to levels observed for the Acremonium cellulase preparation, which showed little enhanced performance with the addition of the same enzymes. Finally, we tested whether milling and sterilization had an effect on ethanol production and found that sterilized silage produced higher ethanol levels but that the milling process had no significant effect. These results show that (i) silage made from whole-plant rice can be used for bioethanol production and (ii) the proper selection and combination of commercially available enzymes can make SSF more cost efficient by removing the need for a pre-treatment step.
21164571	To achieve the goal of reducing the levels of chemical fertilizers applied in rice production, there is a need to develop microorganisms with the capacity to enhance plant growth. Previous studies have demonstrated that Bacillus cereus RS87 promotes growth of various plants in greenhouse and field trials. The objectives of this study were to (i) evaluate the efficacy and determine the optimum concentration of B. cereus RS87 to enhance growth of various Thai rice cultivars, (ii) measure the chlorophyll content in leaves affected by strain RS87, and (iii) investigate the capacity of strain RS87 to solubilize phosphate and produce siderophores. Three concentrations of strain RS87 (log 6.0, log 7.0, and log 8.0 CFU/mL) were applied to each rice cultivar. Superior responses (i.e., enhanced development of roots and shoots of all rice cultivars) were observed using RS87 at log 8.0 CFU/mL compared with lower bacterial concentrations and the water-treated control treatment. In addition, log 8.0 CFU/mL of RS87 provided the greatest root length and plant height of all rice cultivars 45 days after planting in the greenhouse. Rice leaves treated with log 8.0 CFU/mL of RS87 yielded the highest total chlorophyll, specifically chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b, compared with the control. Strain RS87 also solubilized phosphate and produced siderophores. The results of these studies demonstrate that log 8.0 CFU/mL is the optimum concentration of strain RS87 for growth promotion of various Thai rice cultivars.
21166387	In Bangladesh, irrigation of dry season rice (boro) with arsenic-contaminated groundwater is leading to increased As levels in soils and rice, and to concerns about As-induced yield reduction. Arsenic concentrations and speciation in soil porewater are strongly influenced by redox conditions, and thus by water management during rice growth. We studied the dynamics of As, Fe, P, Si, and other elements in porewater of a paddy field near Sreenagar (Munshiganj), irrigated according to local practice, in which flooding was intermittent. During early rice growth, As porewater concentrations reached up to 500 μg L(-1) and were dominated by As(III), but As release was constrained to the lower portion of the soil above the plow pan. In the later part of the season, soil conditions were oxic throughout the depth range relevant to rice roots and porewater concentrations only intermittently increased to ∼150 μg L(-1) As(V) following irrigation events. Our findings suggest that intermittent irrigation, currently advocated in Bangladesh for water-saving purposes, may be a promising means of reducing As input to paddy soils and rice plant exposure to As.
21166637	At the end of 1990s two structurally different proteinaceous inhibitors of xylanases were discovered in the grain of wheat (Triticum aestivum). They were named TAXI (T. aestivum xylanase inhibitor) and XIP (xylanase-inhibiting protein). Later it was shown that TAXI and XIP in wheat are present in several isoforms encoded by different genes. TAXI- and XIP-like inhibitors have also been found in other cereals-barley, rye, rice, maize, etc. All these proteins can specifically inhibit activity of fungal and bacterial xylanases belonging to families 10 and 11 of glycoside hydrolases, but they do not affect endogenous enzymes produced by plants. A common viewpoint is that the presence of proteinaceous inhibitors in cereals is a response of plants to pathogenic attack by microorganisms. A few years ago, an inhibitor of a third type was discovered in wheat. It was named TLXI (thaumatin-like xylanase inhibitor) because of its similarity to the thaumatin family of plant proteins. In this review, the occurrence of proteinaceous inhibitors of xylanases in different cereals, their specificity towards fungal and bacterial enzymes, as well as structural features responsible for enzyme sensitivity to various types of inhibitors are discussed.
21166795	Development of semidwarf rice cultivars contributed to the epoch of high yielding crops called the 'Green Revolution'. However, over-reliance on semidwarf rice also has intrinsic limitations to supply food for an ever expanding world population. As a solution to the food supply problem, we propose the development of 'tall dwarf' rice cultivars that are characterized by increased biomass with long culms or large grains. However, genetic studies on the elongation of rice culms have remained scarce. This study seeks to analyze mutant genes involved in culm elongation in long-culm mutants induced by the MITE transposon mPing, which has been shown to be active in the japonica cultivar Gimbozu. Through analysis of the experimental results, we have confirmed that the three mutant long-culm genes exhibit genetic dominance. These represent rare cases of artificially induced dominant mutations. It is very likely that the mPing transposons played an important role in inducing the dominant mutations and also play an evolutionary interesting role.
21166796	Hybridization is prevalent in plants, which plays important roles in genome evolution. Apart from direct transfer and recombinatory generation of genetic variations by hybridization, de novo genetic instabilities can be induced by the process per se. One mechanism by which such de novo genetic variability can be generated by interspecific hybridization is transpositional reactivation of quiescent parental transposable elements (TEs) in the nascent hybrids. We have reported previously that introgressive hybridization between rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Zizania latifolia Griseb had induced rampant mobilization of three TEs, a copia-like LTR retrotransposon Tos17, a MITE mPing and a class II TE belonging to the hAT superfamily, Dart/nDart. In this study, we further found that two additional LTR retrotransposons, a gypsy-like (named RIRE2) and a copia-like (named Copia076), were also transpositionally reactivated in three recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from introgressive hybridization between rice and Z. latifolia. Novel bands of these two retroelements appeared in the RILs relative to their rice parental line (cv. Matsumae) in Southern blot, suggestive of retrotransposition, which was substantiated by transposon display (TD) and locus-specific PCR amplification for insertion sites. Both elements were found to be transcribed but at variable levels in the leaf tissue of the parental line and the RILs, suggesting that transcriptional control was probably not a mechanism for their transpositional activity in the RILs. Expression analysis of four genes adjacent to de novo insertions by Copia076 revealed marked difference in the transcript abundance for each of the genes between the RILs and their rice parental line, but the alterations in expression appeared unrelated with the retroelement insertions.
21166808	Hybrids between genetically diverse varieties display enhanced growth, and increased total biomass, stress resistance and grain yield. Gene expression and metabolic studies in maize, rice and other species suggest that protein metabolism plays a role in the growth differences between hybrids and inbreds. Single trait heterosis can be explained by the existing theories of dominance, overdominance and epistasis. General multigenic heterosis is observed in a wide variety of different species and is likely to share a common underlying biological mechanism. This review presents a model to explain differences in growth and yield caused by general multigenic heterosis. The model describes multigenic heterosis in terms of energy-use efficiency and faster cell cycle progression where hybrids have more efficient growth than inbreds because of differences in protein metabolism. The proposed model is consistent with the observed variation of gene expression in different pairs of inbred lines and hybrid offspring as well as growth differences in polyploids and aneuploids. It also suggests an approach to enhance yield gains in both hybrid and inbred crops via the creation of an appropriate computational analysis pipeline coupled to an efficient molecular breeding program.
21167071	Because of its size, allohexaploid nature and high repeat content, the wheat genome has always been perceived as too complex for efficient molecular studies. We recently constructed the first physical map of a wheat chromosome (3B). However gene mapping is still laborious in wheat because of high redundancy between the three homoeologous genomes. In contrast, in the closely related diploid species, barley, numerous gene-based markers have been developed. This study aims at combining the unique genomic resources developed in wheat and barley to decipher the organisation of gene space on wheat chromosome 3B. Three dimensional pools of the minimal tiling path of wheat chromosome 3B physical map were hybridised to a barley Agilent 15K expression microarray. This led to the fine mapping of 738 barley orthologous genes on wheat chromosome 3B. In addition, comparative analyses revealed that 68% of the genes identified were syntenic between the wheat chromosome 3B and barley chromosome 3 H and 59% between wheat chromosome 3B and rice chromosome 1, together with some wheat-specific rearrangements. Finally, it indicated an increasing gradient of gene density from the centromere to the telomeres positively correlated with the number of genes clustered in islands on wheat chromosome 3B. Our study shows that novel structural genomics resources now available in wheat and barley can be combined efficiently to overcome specific problems of genetic anchoring of physical contigs in wheat and to perform high-resolution comparative analyses with rice for deciphering the organisation of the wheat gene space.
21167079	The cellulose synthase and cellulose synthase-like gene superfamily (CESA/CSL) is proposed to encode enzymes for cellulose and non-cellulosic matrix polysaccharide synthesis in plants. Although the rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome has been sequenced for a few years, the global expression profiling patterns and functions of the OsCESA/CSL superfamily remain largely unknown. A total of 45 identified members of OsCESA/CSL were classified into two clusters based on phylogeny and motif constitution. Duplication events contributed largely to the expansion of this superfamily, with Cluster I and II mainly attributed to tandem and segmental duplication, respectively. With microarray data of 33 tissue samples covering the entire life cycle of rice, fairly high OsCESA gene expression and rather variable OsCSL expression were observed. While some members from each CSL family (A1, C9, D2, E1, F6 and H1) were expressed in all tissues examined, many of OsCSL genes were expressed in specific tissues (stamen and radicles). The expression pattern of OsCESA/CSL and OsBC1L which extensively co-expressed with OsCESA/CSL can be divided into three major groups with ten subgroups, each showing a distinct co-expression in tissues representing typically distinct cell wall constitutions. In particular, OsCESA1, -3 & -8 and OsCESA4, -7 & -9 were strongly co-expressed in tissues typical of primary and secondary cell walls, suggesting that they form as a cellulose synthase complex; these results are similar to the findings in Arabidopsis. OsCESA5/OsCESA6 is likely partially redundant with OsCESA3 for OsCESA complex organization in the specific tissues (plumule and radicle). Moreover, the phylogenetic comparison in rice, Arabidopsis and other species can provide clues for the prediction of orthologous gene expression patterns. The study characterized the CESA/CSL of rice using an integrated approach comprised of phylogeny, transcriptional profiling and co-expression analyses. These investigations revealed very useful clues on the major roles of CESA/CSL, their potentially functional complement and their associations for appropriate cell wall synthesis in higher plants.
21167640	The leather industry produces a large quantity of solid waste (wet blue leather), which contains a high amount of chromium. After its removal from wet blue leather, a solid collagenic material is recovered, containing high nitrogen levels, which can be used as a nitrogen source in agriculture. In order to take more advantage of the collagen, it was enriched with mineral P and K in order to produce NPK formulations. The objective was also to evaluate the efficiency of such formulations as a nutrient supply for rice plants in an Oxisoil, under greenhouse conditions. The application of PK enriched-collagen formulations resulted in N contents in the vegetative parts and grains of rice plants which were equivalent or superior to those obtained with urea and commercial NPK formulations.
21169347	We identified 163 AP2/EREBP (APETALA2/ethylene-responsive element-binding protein) genes in rice. We analyzed gene structures, phylogenies, domain duplication, genome localizations and expression profiles. Conserved amino acid residues and phylogeny construction using the AP2/ERF conserved domain sequence suggest that in rice the OsAP2/EREBP gene family can be classified broadly into four subfamilies [AP2, RAV (related to ABI3/VP1), DREB (dehydration-responsive element-binding protein) and ERF (ethylene-responsive factor)]. The chromosomal localizations of the OsAP2/EREBP genes indicated 20 segmental duplication events involving 40 genes; 58 redundant OsAP2/EREBP genes were involved in tandem duplication events. There were fewer introns after segmental duplication. We investigated expression profiles of this gene family under biotic stresses [infection with rice viruses such as rice stripe virus (RSV), rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) and rice dwarf virus (RDV, three virus strains S, O and D84)], and various abiotic stresses. Symptoms of virus infection were more severe in RSV infection than in RTSV and RDV infection. Responses to biotic stresses are novel findings and these stresses enhance the ability to identify the best candidate genes for further functional analysis. The genes of subgroup B-5 were not induced under abiotic treatments whereas they were activated by the three RDV strains. None of the genes of subgroups A-3 were differentially expressed by any of the biotic stresses. Our 44K and 22K microarray results suggest that 53 and 52 non-redundant genes in this family were up-regulated in response to biotic and abiotic stresses, respectively. We further examined the stress responsiveness of most genes by reverse transcription-PCR. The study results should be useful in selecting candidate genes from specific subgroups for functional analysis.
21169681	CutA1 is widely found in bacteria, plants and animals, including humans. The functions of CutA1, however, have not been well clarified. It is known that CutA1s from Pyrococcus horikoshii, Thermus thermophilus and Oryza sativa unfold at temperatures remarkably higher than the growth temperatures of the host organisms. In this work the crystal structure of CutA1 from the psychrotrophic bacterium Shewanella sp. SIB1 (SIB1-CutA1) in a trimeric form was determined at 2.7 Å resolution. This is the first crystal structure of a psychrotrophic CutA1. The overall structure of SIB1-CutA1 is similar to those of CutA1 from Homo sapiens, Escherichia coli, Pyrococcus horikoshii, Thermus thermophilus, Termotoga maritima, Oryza sativa and Rattus norvergicus. A peculiarity is observed in the β2 strand. The β2 strand is divided into two short β strands, β2a and β2b, in SIB1-CutA1. A thermal denaturation experiment revealed that SIB1-CutA1 does not unfold completely at 363 K at pH 7.0, although Shewanella sp. SIB1 cannot grow at temperatures exceeding 303 K. These results indicate that the trimeric structural motif of CutA1 is the critical factor in its unusually high stability and suggest that CutA1 needs to maintain its high stability in order to function, even in psychrotrophs.
21170334	Childhood diet is important for brain development. Furthermore, the quality of breakfast is thought to affect the cognitive functioning of well-nourished children. To analyze the relationship among breakfast staple type, gray matter volume, and intelligence quotient (IQ) in 290 healthy children, we used magnetic resonance images and applied voxel-based morphometry. We divided subjects into rice, bread, and both groups according to their breakfast staple. We showed that the rice group had a significantly larger gray matter ratio (gray matter volume percentage divided by intracranial volume) and significantly larger regional gray matter volumes of several regions, including the left superior temporal gyrus. The bread group had significantly larger regional gray and white matter volumes of several regions, including the right frontoparietal region. The perceptual organization index (POI; IQ subcomponent) of the rice group was significantly higher than that of the bread group. All analyses were adjusted for age, gender, intracranial volume, socioeconomic status, average weekly frequency of having breakfast, and number of side dishes eaten for breakfast. Although several factors may have affected the results, one possible mechanism underlying the difference between the bread and the rice groups may be the difference in the glycemic index (GI) of these two substances; foods with a low GI are associated with less blood-glucose fluctuation than are those with a high GI. Our study suggests that breakfast staple type affects brain gray and white matter volumes and cognitive function in healthy children; therefore, a diet of optimal nutrition is important for brain maturation during childhood and adolescence.
21170527	The spread of invasive species is a complex ecological process that is affected by both the biology of the species and the spatial structure of a landscape. The rice water weevil (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel), a notorious crop pest found in many parts of the world, is one of the most devastating invasive species in China, and has caused enormous economic losses and ecological damage. Little is known, however, as to how habitat and landscape features affect the spatial spread of this pest. Thus, the main goal of this study was to investigate the relationship between the observed spread pattern of L. oryzophilus and landscape structural factors in Zhejiang Province, China between 1993 and 2001. We quantified the invasive spread of the weevil in terms of both the proportion of infected area and spread distance each year as well as landscape structure and connectivity of rice paddies with landscape metrics. Our results showed that the spread of L. oryzophilus took place primarily in the southwest-northeast direction along coastal areas at a speed of about 36 km per year. The composition and spatial arrangement of landscape elements were key determinants of this unique spread pattern. In particular, the connectivity of early rice paddies was crucial for the invasive spread while other factors such as meteorological and geographical conditions may also have been relevant. To control the spread of the pest, we propose four management measures: (1) to implement a landscape-level planning scheme of cropping systems to minimize habitat area and connectivity for the pest, (2) to reduce the source populations at a local scale using integrated control methods, (3) to monitor and report invasive spread in a timely manner, and (4) to strengthen the quarantine system. To be most effective, all four management measures need to be implemented together through an integrated, multi-scaled approach.
21170570	Growth and sporulation of Verticillium lecanii on inert and organic carriers (sugar-cane bagasse, corncob, rice straw, polyurethane foam and activated carbon) in a solid-state fermentation process was studied. Sugar-cane bagasse and polyurethane foam produced 10(10) spores g(-1) dry carrier whereas corncob, rice straw, and activated carbon yielded, respectively 8 × 10(9), 4 × 10(9), and 3 × 10(8) spores g(-1). Chitinase activity of the conidia was in the following order: sugar-cane bagasse (3.3 U mg(-1)) > wheat bran (3.0 U mg(-1)) > polyurethane foam (2.7 U mg(-1)). There was no significant difference (2.5-2.7 U mg(-1)) in the proteinase activity among the conidia from the three cultures. Scanning electron microscopy shows that aerial mycelium freely penetrated into the internal area of polyurethane foam. Sugar-cane bagasse provided enough area for vegetative hyphae to attach. Of the carriers analyzed, polyurethane foams and sugar-cane bagasse were the best carriers for V. lecanii growth and spore production.
21171846	There are seven known serotypes of botulism, designated A through G; almost all human cases of botulism are caused by types A, B, and E. Botulism type E is the predominant serotype causing disease associated with native Arctic foods. In the circumpolar regions of the world, the coastal soils are rich in botulism type E, and consumption of fish and marine animals in these areas are the sources of clusters of botulism. Unlike spores of type A and B, botulism type E can withstand freezing down to 3.5°C. Alaskan native fermentation of fish heads, fish eggs, and beaver tail allow proper anaerobic conditions for botulinum toxin to be elaborated from Clostridium botulinum. The consumption of whale meat, "muktuk" has also been associated with outbreaks of botulism in Alaska and the Canadian Arctic. Elsewhere in the Arctic regions, type E botulism has been associated with Norwegian "rakfisk" prepared by a process similar to fermented Alaskan foods. Outbreaks in Egypt with the salted gray mullet "faseikh", in Israel and New York linked to salted uneviscerated whitefish "kapchunka", in Iran from eating "ashbal" an uncooked salmon, and in Japan with "izushi" a traditional fermented fish preserved in rice have occurred. Importation of vacuum-packed whitefish from Alaska and Canada has also been associated with sporadic cases of botulism type E in Europe. In March 2010, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention released the heptavalent antitoxin (H-BAT) for use in the USA, under an Investigational New Drug program, as the preferred treatment for food-borne botulism, including type E, which had not been covered by the bivalent antitoxin, the prior approved antitoxin product in the USA.
21171885	The indica rice cultivar Xiangzi 3150 (XZ3150) confers a high level of resistance to 95% of the isolates of Magnaporthe oryzae (the agent of rice blast disease) collected in Hunan Province, China. To identify the resistance (R) gene(s) controlling the high level of resistance in this cultivar, we developed 286 F(9) recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from a cross between XZ3150 and the highly susceptible cultivar CO39. Inoculation of the RILs and an F(2) population from a cross between the two cultivars with the avirulent isolate 193-1-1 in the growth chamber indicated the presence of two dominant R genes in XZ3150. A linkage map with 134 polymorphic simple sequence repeat and single feature polymorphism markers was constructed with the genotype data of the 286 RILs. Composite interval mapping (CIM) using the results of 193-1-1 inoculation showed that two major R genes, designated Pi47 and Pi48, were located between RM206 and RM224 on chromosome 11, and between RM5364 and RM7102 on chromosome 12, respectively. Interestingly, the CIM analysis of the four resistant components of the RILs to the field blast population revealed that Pi47 and Pi48 were also the major genetic factors responsible for the field resistance in XZ3150. The DNA markers linked to the new R genes identified in this study should be useful for further fine mapping, gene cloning, and marker-aided breeding of blast-resistant rice cultivars.
21171893	We previously detected infection-promoting activity in the supernatant of the conidial suspension (SCS) of the rice blast fungus. In the present study, a molecule carrying the activity was purified and identified as 2'-deoxyuridine (dU). The infection-promoting activity of dU was strictly dependent on its chemical structure and displayed characteristics consistent with those of the SCS. Notably, the activity of dU was exclusively detected during interactions between rice and virulent isolates of the fungus, the number of susceptible lesions in leaf blades was increased by dU, and nonhost resistance in rice plants was not affected by treatment with dU. In addition, the expression of pathogensis-related genes, accumulation of H(2)O(2), and production of phytoalexins in rice in response to inoculation with virulent fungal isolates was not suppressed by dU. The infection-promoting activity of dU was not accompanied by elevated levels of endogenous abscissic acid, which is known to modify plant-pathogen interactions, and was not detected in interactions between oat plants and a virulent oat blast fungus isolate. Taken together, these results demonstrate that dU is a novel infection-promoting factor that acts specifically during compatible interactions between rice plants and rice blast fungus in a mode distinct from that of toxins and suppressors.
21171996	Short interstitial telomere motifs (telo boxes) are short sequences identical to plant telomere repeat units. They are observed within the 5' region of several genes over-expressed in cycling cells. In synergy with various cis-acting elements, these motifs participate in the activation of expression. Here, we have analysed the distribution of telo boxes within Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa genomes and their association with genes involved in the biogenesis of the translational apparatus. Our analysis showed that the distribution of the telo box (AAACCCTA) in different genomic regions of A. thaliana and O. sativa is not random. As is also the case for plant microsatellites, they are preferentially located in the 5' flanking regions of genes, mainly within the 5' UTR, and distributed as a gradient along the direction of transcription. As previously reported in Arabidopsis, a conserved topological association of telo boxes with site II or TEF cis-acting elements is observed in almost all promoters of genes encoding ribosomal proteins in O. sativa. Such a conserved promoter organization can be found in other genes involved in the biogenesis of the translational machinery including rRNA processing proteins and snoRNAs. Strikingly, the association of telo boxes with site II motifs or TEF boxes is conserved in promoters of genes harbouring snoRNA clusters nested within an intron as well as in the 5' flanking regions of non-intronic snoRNA genes. Thus, the search for associations between telo boxes and site II motifs or TEF box in plant genomes could provide a useful tool for characterizing new cryptic RNA pol II promoters. The data reported in this work support the model previously proposed for the spreading of telo boxes within plant genomes and provide new insights into a putative process for the acquisition of microsatellites in plants. The association of telo boxes with site II or TEF cis-acting elements appears to be an essential feature of plant genes involved in the biogenesis of ribosomes and clearly indicates that most plant snoRNAs are RNA pol II products.
21172133	To study the effect of rhIGF-1on the mRNA and protein expression of cytochrome C (Cyt-C) and caspase-3 in neonatal rats with hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD). Ninety neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into three groups: normal control, HIBD, and HIBD+rhIGF-1 (rhIGF-1 was given intraperitoneally right after HI). Rat HIBD model was prepared according the Rice-Vannucci method. RT-PCR and Western blot methods were used to measure the mRNA and protein expression of Cyt-C and caspase-3 24, 48 and 72 hrs after HI (n=10 each time point). At all time points, both Cyt-C mRNA and caspase-3 mRNA expression levels in the HIBD group increased compared with those in the normal control group, and those in the HIBD+rhIGF-1 group also increased compared with that in the normal control group but decreased compared with that in the HIBD group. There were statistical significances among the three groups (P<0.01). At all time points, the changes of both Cyt-C and caspase-3 protein expression in the three groups were similar to those of the mRNA expression: both Cyt-C and caspase-3 protein expression levels increased in the HIBD group compared with those in the normal control group, and those in the HIBD+rhIGF-1 group also increased compared with those in the normal control group but decreased compared with those in the HIBD group. There were statistical significances among the three groups (P<0.01).Pearson correlation analysis showed that mRNA and protein expression of Cyt-C were positively correlated to casapse-3 mRNA and protein expression in the HIBD and the HIBD+rhIGF-1 groups. rhIGF-1 may inhibit the Cyt-C release and caspase-3 expression, and thus provides neuroprotection against HIBD in neonatal rats.
21172812	The beneficial element silicon (Si) may affect radial oxygen loss (ROL) of rice roots depending on suberization of the exodermis and lignification of sclerenchyma. Thus, the effect of Si nutrition on the oxidation power of rice roots, suberization and lignification was examined. In addition, Si-induced alterations of the transcript levels of 265 genes related to suberin and lignin synthesis were studied by custom-made microarray and quantitative Real Time-PCR. Without Si supply, the oxidation zone of 12 cm long adventitious roots extended along the entire root length but with Si supply the oxidation zone was restricted to 5 cm behind the root tip. This pattern coincided with enhanced suberization of the exodermis and lignification of sclerenchyma by Si supply. Suberization of the exodermis started, with and without Si supply, at 4-5 cm and 8-9 cm distance from the root tip (drt), respectively. Si significantly increased transcript abundance of 12 genes, while two genes had a reduced transcript level. A gene coding for a leucine-rich repeat protein exhibited a 25-fold higher transcript level with Si nutrition. Physiological, histochemical, and molecular-biological data showing that Si has an active impact on rice root anatomy and gene transcription is presented here.
21172814	Members of the glutamine synthetase (GS) gene family have now been characterized in many crop species such as wheat, rice, and maize. Studies have shown that cytosolic GS isoforms are involved in nitrogen remobilization during leaf senescence and emphasized a role in seed production particularly in small grain crop species. Data from the sequencing of genomes for model crops and expressed sequence tag (EST) libraries from non-model species have strengthened the idea that the cytosolic GS genes are organized in three functionally and phylogenetically conserved subfamilies. Using a bioinformatic approach, the considerable publicly available information on high throughput gene expression was mined to search for genes having patterns of expression similar to GS. Interesting new hypotheses have emerged from searching for co-expressed genes across multiple unfiltered experimental data sets in rice. This approach should inform new experimental designs and studies to explore the regulation of the GS gene family further. It is expected that understanding the regulation of GS under varied climatic conditions will emerge as an important new area considering the results from recent studies that have shown nitrogen assimilation to be critical to plant acclimation to high CO(2) concentrations.
21172955	Depletion of stratospheric ozone has led to increased UV radiation reaching the surface of the Earth. This may damage plants. Using physiological, proteomic and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) methods, we systematically studied the response of 16-day-old rice seedlings to UV [0.67 W m(-2) biologically effective UVB (UVB(BE)) and 0.28 W m(-2) UVA] exposure for 6, 12 and 24 h. UV exposure resulted in the appearance of light brown patches on leaves, a decrease in the net photosynthetic rate (Pn), lipid peroxidation, accumulation of UV-absorbing compounds (including flavonoids and other phenolic pigments) and differential expression of 22 proteins. Both physiological and molecular responses became stronger with increasing UV exposure time, indicating the effects of UV accumulation on plants. UV-induced responses included (i) phytohormone-regulative responses (up-regulation of proteins related to phytohormone synthesis such as IAA and ethylene); (ii) injurious responses (photosynthesis suppression, lipid peroxidation and visible injury); and (iii) protective responses (accumulation of UV-absorbing compounds and differential expression of proteins involved in detoxification/antioxidation, defense, protein processing, RNA processing, carbohydrate metabolism and secondary metabolism). The identification of UV-responsive proteins provided a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of plant responses to UV stress. Proteomic and qPCR analysis identified one up-regulated and two induced proteins with important functions: tryptophan synthase α chain (production of radical oxygen species), glyoxalase I (detoxification/antioxidation) and a Bet v I family protein (defense). These results will contribute to future research into their roles in UV stress responses in plants.
21174169	We report a simple analytical procedure combining near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy with multivariate analysis to detect the saccharification efficiency of pretreated rice straw. Three types of sample preparation methods were tested to develop a powerful calibration model, with the disk sample used as the standard protocol. From the spectra dataset of NaOH-treated biomass, we obtained a good calibration for the saccharification ratio and some major structural components by partial least-squares regression. Adding dataset from hot water and dilute sulfuric acid pretreatments to NaOH sample dataset, an acceptable calibration model to predict the saccharification ratio as well as the glucose, xylose, and lignin contents was generated. NIR has a great potential for rapid screening of saccharification efficiency of pretreated biomass, which would allows us to control the quality of processing toward better bioethanol production.
21174959	Phosphine is a part of an atmospheric link of phosphorus cycle on earth, which could be an important pathway for phosphorus transport in environment. Wetland ecosystems are important locations for global biogeochemical phosphorus cycle. In this study, production and emission fluxes of free phosphine from four wetlands types in southern China were observed in different seasons. The results showed that the concentration of phosphine liberated from wetlands was at pg/m3-ng/m3 level. The emission concentrations of different wetlands followed the sequence: paddy field (51.83 +/- 3.06) ng/m3 > or = marsh (46.54 +/- 20.55) ng/m3 > lake (37.05 +/- 22.74) ng/m3 > coastal wetland (1.71 +/- 0.73) ng/m3, the positive phosphine emission flux occurred in rice paddy field (6.67 +/- 5.18) ng/(m2 x hr) and marsh (6.23 +/- 26.9) ng/(m2 x hr), while a negative phosphine flux of (-13.11 +/- 35.04) ng/(m2 x hr) was observed on the water-air interface of Lake Taihu, suggesting that paddy field and marsh may be important sources for phosphine gas in atmosphere, while lake may be a sink of atmospheric phosphine gas during the sampling period. Atmospheric phosphine levels and emission flux from Yancheng marsh and rice paddy field varied in different seasons and vegetational zones. Both diffusion resistance in aqueous phase and temperature were dominating factors for the production and transportation of phosphine to atmosphere.
21174997	To understand certain mechanisms causing variations between rice cultivars with regard to cadmium uptake and tolerance, pot soil experiments were conducted with two rice cultivars of different genotypes under different soil Cd levels. The relationships between plant Cd uptake and iron/manganese (Fe/Mn) plaque formation on roots were investigated. The results showed that rice cultivars differed markedly in Cd uptake and tolerance. Under soil Cd treatments, Cd concentrations and accumulations in the cultivar Shanyou 63 (the genotype indica) were significantly higher than those in the cultivar Wuyunjing 7 (the genotype japonica) (P < 0.01, or P < 0.05), and Shanyou 63 was more sensitive to Cd toxicity than Wuyunjing 7. The differences between the rice cultivars were the largest at relatively low soil Cd level (i.e., 10 mg/kg). Fe concentrations in dithionite-citrate-bicarbonate root extracts of Shanyou 63 were generally lower than that of Wuyunjing 7, and the difference was the most significant under the treatment of 10 mg Cd/kg soil. The results indicated that the formation of iron plaque on rice roots could act as a barrier to soil Cd toxicity, and may be a "buffer" or a "reservoir" which could reduce Cd uptake into rice roots. And the plaque may contribute, to some extent, to the genotypic differences of rice cultivars in Cd uptake and tolerance.
21175184	Tocochromanols are potent lipid-soluble antioxidants and essential nutrients for human health. Genetic engineering techniques were used to develop soybeans with enhanced vitamin E levels, including tocotrienols, which are not found in soybean. The gene encoding rice homogentisate geranylgeranyl transferase (HGGT) was overexpressed in soybeans using seed-specific and constitutive promoters. The association between abundance of vitamin E isomers and antioxidant activity was investigated during seed germination. With the exception of β-tocotrienol, all vitamin E isomers were detected in germinating seeds expressing OsHGGT. The antioxidant properties of germinating seed extracts were determined using 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and 2,2'-azinobis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) radicals and lipid peroxidation (TBARS). Compared with intact wild-type seeds, transgenic seeds showed increases in radical scavenging of 5.4-17 and 23.2-35.3% in the DPPH and ABTS assays, respectively. Furthermore, the lipid peroxidation levels were 2.0-4.5-fold lower in germinating seeds from transgenic lines than in wild-type seeds. Therefore, it appears that the antioxidant potential of transgenic oil-producing plants such as soybean, sunflower, and corn may be enhanced by overexpressing OsHGGT during seed germination.
21175193	This study evaluated the protective effects of purple rice (Oryza sativa L.) bran extract (PRE) and its major anthocyanidins (cyanidin and peonidin) against light-induced retinal damage. In an in vitro experiment, cultured murine photoreceptor cells (661W) were damaged by a 24 h exposure to light. Viability of 661W after light treatment, assessed by the tetrazolium salt (WST-8) assay and Hoechst 33342 nuclear staining, was improved by the addition of PRE, cyanidin, and peonidin. Intracellular radical activation in 661W, evaluated using the reactive oxygen species (ROS) sensitive probe 5-(and 6)-chloromethyl-2,7-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate acetyl ester (CM-H(2)DCFDA), was reduced by PRE and its anthocyanidins. Electron spin resonance (ESR) measurements showed that PRE, peonidin, and cyanidin all exhibited radical scavenging activities against 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical, superoxide anion radical ((•)O(2)(-)), and hydroxyl radical ((•)OH). In an in vivo mouse experiment, intravitreous injection of PRE significantly suppressed photoreceptor degeneration induced by exposure to light as revealed by histological analysis using hematoxylin-eosin staining. These findings suggest that PRE and its anthocyanidins possess protective effects with antioxidation mechanism in both in vitro and in vivo models of retinal diseases.
21175301	Agro-industrial waste 'rice bran' was stabilized and the extracted protein isolates were used as ingredients to make nutritive complimentary food for the growing infants. The formulation processed through drum drying and the starchy ingredients were pregelatinized to reduce bulk in the prepared meal and facilitate spoon-feeding. The formulations had uniform texture, light golden color and good paste consistency. Nutrient composition was good enough to meet standards for supplementary infant foods. Caloric value remained up to 416 kcal/100 g with spoonable viscosity and 80.90-84.45% in vitro digestibility. A single meal could substantially contribute to the daily essential amino acid requirement. The formulation had good acceptability during a short-term infant-feeding trial. The present study can provide practical guideline for manufacturers as well as the nutritionist for the use of an economical and nutritive formulation for young children.
21175635	The repertoire of heterotrimeric G-proteins in plant species analyzed thus far is simple, with the presence of only two possible canonical heterotrimers in Arabidopsis and rice vs hundreds in animal systems. We assessed whether genome duplication events have resulted in the multiplicity of G-protein in plant species like soybean that would increase the complexity of G-protein networks. We identified and amplified four Gα, four Gβ and two Gγ proteins, analyzed their expression profile by quantitative PCR during different developmental stages. We purified the four Gα proteins and analyzed their guanosine-5'-triphosphate (GTP)-binding and GTPase activity. We performed yeast-based interaction analysis to assess the interaction specificity of different G-protein subunits. Our results show that all 10 G-protein genes are retained in the soybean genome and ubiquitously expressed. The four Gα proteins seem to be plasma membrane-localized. The G-protein genes have interesting expression profiles during seed development and germination. The four Gα proteins form two distinct groups based on their GTPase activity. Yeast-based interaction analyses predict that the proteins interact in most of the possible combinations, with some degree of interaction specificity between duplicated gene pairs. This research identifies the most elaborate heterotrimeric G-protein network known to date in the plant kingdom.
21175644	Stem non-structural carbohydrates (NSCs) and its relationship with yield formation was investigated under low nitrogen (LN) and normal nitrogen (NN) treatments, using 46 recombinant inbred lines from Zhenshan 97 × Minghui 63 (Oryza sativa). Apparent contribution of transferred NSC to grain yield (AC(NSC)) ranged from approximately 1 to 28% under LN and from 1 to 15% under NN. Concentration and total mass of NSC in stem (TM(NSC)) at heading, apparent transferred mass of NSC (ATM(NSC)) and AC(NSC) were larger under LN compared with NN. However, there was no significant difference in the apparent ratio of transferred NSC from stems to grain (AR(NSC)). ATM(NSC) was positively correlated with grain yield, 1000-grain weight and AC(NSC) under both nitrogen levels, whereas AR(NSC) was highly correlated with harvest index and AC(NSC) . Leaf area contributed more strongly to grain yield compared with ATM(NSC) under both LN and NN. ATM(NSC) showed larger direct effects on grain yield under LN compared with NN. TM(NSC) at heading, small vascular bundles (SVBs) and spikelets per m(2) under LN had positive direct effects on ATM(NSC) . SVB and spikelets per m(2) under LN had larger and positive direct effects, and large vascular bundles had negative direct effects on AR(NSC) . TM(NSC) at heading and SVB under LN had positive direct effects on AC(NSC) . In brief, LN supply increased stem NSC accumulation and translocation to developing grain. Components of the source-sink-flow system showed different effects on NSC translocation and contribution to yield formation, depending on genotype and nitrogen level.
21175887	The pathogen Stagonospora nodorum produces multiple effectors, also known as host-selective toxins (HSTs), that interact with corresponding host sensitivity genes in an inverse gene-for-gene manner to cause the disease Stagonospora nodorum blotch (SNB) in wheat. In this study, a sensitivity gene was identified in Aegilops tauschii, the diploid D-genome donor of common wheat. The gene was mapped to the short arm of chromosome 5D and mediated recognition of the effector SnTox3, which was previously shown to be recognized by the wheat gene Snn3 on chromosome arm 5BS. Comparative mapping suggested that Snn3 and the gene on 5DS are probably homoeologous and derived from a common ancestor. Therefore, we propose to designate these genes as Snn3-B1 and Snn3-D1, respectively. Compatible Snn3-D1-SnTox3 interactions resulted in more severe necrosis in both effector infiltration and spore inoculation experiments than compatible Snn3-B1-SnTox3 interactions, indicating that Snn3-B1 and Snn3-D1 may have different affinities in SnTox3 recognition or signal transduction. Wheat bin-mapped expressed sequence tags and good levels of collinearity among the wheat Snn3 regions, rice (Oryza sativa), and Brachypodium distachyon were exploited for saturation and fine mapping of the Snn3-D1 locus. Markers delineating the Snn3-D1 locus to a 1.4 cM interval will be useful for initiating positional cloning. Further characterization of how these homoeologous genes mediate recognition of the same pathogen effector should enhance understanding of host manipulation by necrotrophic pathogens in causing disease.
21175891	Genes involved in the differentiation and development of tissues and organs are temporally and spatially regulated in plant development. The DROOPING LEAF (DL) gene, a member of the YABBY gene family, promotes midrib formation in the leaf and carpel specification in the flower. Consistent with these functions, DL is initially expressed in the central region of the leaf primordia (presumptive midrib) and in the presumptive carpel primordia in the meristem. To understand the regulatory mechanism underlying DL expression, we tried to identify cis-regulatory regions required for temporal and spatial expression of this gene. We found that the cis region responsible for the presumptive midrib-specific expression in the leaf primordia is located in intron 2. Next, we confined the region to a sequence of about 200bp, which corresponds to a conserved non-coding sequence (CNS) identified by phylogenetic footprinting. In addition, a sequence termed DG1, incorporating a 5' upstream region of about 7.4kb, and introns 1 and 2, was shown to be sufficient to induce DL in the presumptive midrib, and to suppress it in other regions in the leaf primordia. By contrast, the regulatory region required for carpel-specific expression was not included in the DG1 sequence. We modified Oryza sativa (rice) plant architecture by expressing an activated version of DL (DL-VP16) in a precise manner using the DG1 sequence: the resulting transgenic plant produced a midrib in the distal region of the leaf blade, where there is no midrib in wild type, and formed more upright leaves compared with the wild type.
21175892	Rice (Oryza sativa) produces momilactone diterpenoids as both phytoalexins and allelochemicals. Strikingly, the rice genome contains a biosynthetic gene cluster for momilactone production, located on rice chromosome 4, which contains two cytochrome P450 (CYP) mono-oxygenases, CYP99A2 and CYP99A3, with undefined roles; although it has been previously shown that RNA interference double knock-down of this pair of closely related CYPs reduced momilactone accumulation. Here we attempted biochemical characterization of CYP99A2 and CYP99A3, which was ultimately achieved by complete gene recoding, enabling functional recombinant expression in bacteria. With these synthetic gene constructs it was possible to demonstrate that while CYP99A2 does not exhibit significant activity with diterpene substrates, CYP99A3 catalyzes consecutive oxidations of the C19 methyl group of the momilactone precursor syn-pimara-7,15-diene to form, sequentially, syn-pimaradien-19-ol, syn-pimaradien-19-al, and syn-pimaradien-19-oic acid. These are presumably intermediates in momilactone biosynthesis, as a C19 carboxylic acid moiety is required for formation of the core 19,6-γ-lactone ring structure. We further were able to detect syn-pimaradien-19-oic acid in rice plants, which indicates physiological relevance for the observed activity of CYP99A3. In addition, we found that CYP99A3 also oxidized syn-stemod-13(17)-ene at C19 to produce, sequentially, syn-stemoden-19-ol, syn-stemoden-19-al, and syn-stemoden-19-oic acid, albeit with lower catalytic efficiency than with syn-pimaradiene. Although the CYP99A3 syn-stemodene-derived products were not detected in planta, these results nevertheless provide a hint at the currently unknown metabolic fate of this diterpene in rice. Regardless of any wider role, our results strongly indicate that CYP99A3 acts as a multifunctional diterpene oxidase in momilactone biosynthesis.
21176523	To compare the digestibility of main nutrients in genetically modified rice with double antisense starch-branching enzyme gene and parental rice. Seven Wuzhishan healthy adult barrows were surgically fitted with a T-cannula at the terminal ileum. After surgery, seven pigs were randomly divided into two groups, and fed genetically modified rice and parental rice by a crossover model. Ileal digesta were collected for analysis of main nutrient digestibility. The apparent digestibility levels of protein in genetically modified rice and parental rice were 69.50% ± 4.50%, 69.61% ± 8.40%, respectively (t = 0.01, P = 0.994); true digestibility levels of protein were 87.55% ± 4.95%, 87.64% ± 9.40%, respectively (t = 0.01, P = 0.994); fat digestibility levels were 72.86% ± 0.34%, 77.89% ± 13.09%, respectively (t = 0.95, P = 0.378); carbohydrate digestibility levels were 72.92% ± 7.43%, 92.35% ± 5.88%, respectively (t = 4.27, P = 0.005). The apparent and true digestibility of 17 amino acids had no significant difference in the two rice. Carbohydrate digestibility in genetically modified rice was significantly lower than that in non-genetically modified rice, other main nutrients digestibility in the two rice have substantial equivalence.
21177038	The aim of this study was to evaluate the anticoccidial efficacy of a product containing coumestans from Eclipta alba. Experimental conditions were set up as to reproduce the environment conditions for husbandry adopted in commercial broiler farms. Broilers were raised in broiler chicken shed provided with feeders, drinkers, illumination and temperature control systems and floor covering to afford an adequate nourishing environment. Male Cobb broilers (240) were assigned to four experimental groups being each experimental group set apart in rice straw-covered shed isolated with wire mesh. One-day-old broilers were reared in a coccidian-free environment with ad libitum supply of filtered water and freely available standard feed, from the 1st to the 35th day of life. The T1 group received standard feed (negative control); T2 was treated with standard feed supplemented with 66 ppm of salinomycin (positive control); groups T3 and T4 had standard feed supplemented with the ethyl acetate fraction from methanolic extract of E. alba aerial parts, which contains the coumestans WL and DWL (120 and 180 ppm, respectively). The chicken broilers were individually infected with 2 × 104 oocysts of Eimeria tenella when they were 14 days old and were monitored weekly to evaluate zootechnical parameters such as weight gain and food conversion ratio. Counting of coccidial oocyst in chicken feces was assessed from random samples, from the 21st to 28th days of life, which corresponded to 7-14 days after the infection. Five chickens selected at random from each experimental group were subsequently euthanized at 21, 28 or 35 days of life to determine the lesion score in the cecal region and to excise a cecum portion for histopathological evaluation. The group treated with coumestans from E. alba presented an average weight gain and food conversion ratio higher than the negative control group and similar to the mean value of the positive control group. Coumestan-treated groups showed a significant decrease in the oocyst counting since the 21 th day of life and displayed a reduced number of macroscopic lesions. Histopathological evaluations of cecum fragments showed that both treatments induced the migration of defense cells at the site of infection. A severe destruction of the cecal lining was found in the intestinal tract of broilers fed with a coumestans dose of 180 ppm. Overall, our results validate the use of a phytotherapy containing E. alba coumestans at a dose of 120 ppm as a therapeutic or prophylactic agent against avian coccidiosis.
2117788	Regular snail sampling was performed at 40 sites, representing the principal snail habitats, during a 4 year chemotherapy programme targetted at school-children in the Msambweni area of the coastal plain of Kenya. Populations of Bulinus africanus group snails, primarily from pools, showed seasonal variations, dropping when sites dried out and rising when they were refilled by the rains. Transmission, judged by the recovery of snails shedding typical fucocercous cercariae, continued throughout the treatment period at very low levels (less than 1% of the snails collected were infected) with peaks in October/November and in January/February after seasonal rains. Spatially, most infected snails were recovered from 2 large pools near the sea, close to the school that responded least well to the initial chemotherapy programme. Later, infected snails were found sporadically in inland pools, rice fields and temporary streams near another school where there was evidence of substantial reinfection as the study progressed. The snail findings are consistent with a reduction but not elimination of transmission associated with the chemotherapy programme.
21178077	Precooked, instant (dry) infant cereals in the US are fortified with electrolytic iron, a source of low reactivity and suspected low bioavailability. Iron from ferrous fumarate is presumed to be more available. In this study, we compared a dry infant rice cereal (Cereal L) fortified with electrolytic iron (54.5 mg iron/100 g cereal) to a similar cereal (Cereal M) fortified with ferrous fumarate (52.2 mg Fe/100 g) for efficacy in maintaining iron status and preventing iron deficiency (ID) in breast-fed infants. Ascorbic acid was included in both cereals. In this prospective, randomized double-blind trial, exclusively breast-fed infants were enrolled at 1 mo and iron status was determined periodically. At 4 mo, 3 infants had ID anemia and were excluded. Ninety-five infants were randomized at 4 mo, and 69 (36 Cereal L, 33 Cereal M) completed the intervention at 9 mo. From 4 to 9 mo, they consumed daily one of the study cereals. With each cereal, 2 infants had mild ID, a prevalence of 4.2%, but no infant developed ID anemia. There were no differences in iron status between study groups. Iron intake from the study cereals was (mean ± SD) 1.21 ± 0.31 mg⋅kg(-1)⋅d(-1) from Cereal L and 1.07 ± 0.40 mg⋅kg(-1)⋅d(-1) from Cereal M. Eleven infants had low birth iron endowment (plasma ferritin < 55 μg/L at 2 mo) and 54% of these infants had ID with or without anemia by 4 mo. We conclude that electrolytic iron and ferrous fumarate were equally efficacious as fortificants of this infant cereal.
21178306	It is known that the common cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) was domesticated from Asian wild rice, O. rufipogon. Among the morphological differences between them, loss of seed shattering is one of the striking characters specific for the cultivated forms. In order to understand the genetic control on shattering habit, QTL analysis was carried out using BC(2)F(1) backcross population between O. sativa cv. Nipponbare (a recurrent parent) and O. rufipogon acc. W630 (a donor parent). As a result, two strong QTLs were detected on chromosomes 1 and 4, and they were found to be identical to the two major seed-shattering loci, qSH1 and sh4, respectively. The allelic interaction at these loci was further examined using two sets of backcross populations having reciprocal genetic backgrounds, cultivated and wild. In the genetic background of cultivated rice, the wild qSH1 allele has stronger effect on seed shattering than that of sh4. In addition, the wild alleles at both qSH1 and sh4 loci showed semi-dominant effects. On the other hand, in the genetic background of wild rice, non-shattering effects of Nipponbare alleles at both loci were examined to inspect rice domestication from a viewpoint of seed shattering. It was serendipitous that the backcross plants individually having Nipponbare homozygous alleles at either shattering locus (qSH1 or sh4) shed all the seeds. This fact strongly indicates that the non-shattering behavior was not obtained by a single mutation in the genetic background of wild rice. Probably, some other minor genes are still associated with the formation or activation of abscission layer, which enhance the seed shattering.
21178307	In the near future, global average temperature is expected to increase due to the accumulation of greenhouse gases, and increased temperatures will cause severe sterility in many crop species. In rice, since wild species show high genetic variation, they may have the potential to improve the flowering characters of cultivars. In this study, we investigated flowering characters under natural conditions by comparing an Asian wild rice accession of Oryza rufipogon W630 (originated from Myanmar) with a Japanese rice cultivar, O. sativa Japonica cv. Nipponbare. Further, QTL analysis for days to heading (DH) and spikelet opening time (SOT: the time of day when the spikelet opens) was carried out using BC(2)F(8) backcross population derived from the cross between them. Regarding DH, four QTLs were detected, and two of them were found to have wild alleles with strong effects leading to longer days to heading during the Japanese summer. These wild alleles may be used to produce late-heading cultivars that do not flower during the high summer temperatures anticipated in the future. As for SOT, two parameters of SOTb (beginning time when the first spikelet opens) and SOTm (median time when 50% of the spikelets open) were recorded and the time differences from Nipponbare were investigated. Two QTLs on chromosomes 5 and 10 and two QTLs on chromosomes 4 and 5 were detected for SOTb and SOTm, respectively. The wild alleles were responsible for early spikelet opening time at all loci. If the wild alleles detected in this study have the same effects in the genetic background of other cultivars, they will be very useful in producing early-flowering rice cultivars that complete fertilization in the morning before the temperature rises.
21178310	This study develops simple techniques for increasing production yield and refining of crude RBO (CRBO). It was found that pre-heating of rice bran by hot air oven to reach 60°C before being extracted by screw press machine increased the yield from 4.8 to 8.3%w/w. This paper suggested three simple steps for refining of organic CRBO: (1) filtering using filter papers (2) sedimentation by adding 4%w/v fuller's earth and (3) bleaching by running through a packed column of activated carbon. These steps significantly enhanced the qualities of RBO when compared to CRBO before treatment. It was found that the lightness of oil as indicated by color value (L*) increased from 22.8 to 28.7, gum and wax decreased from 3.6 to 1.3%w/w. However, the simple refining method had no effect on peroxide value and free fatty acid content. Moreover, it slightly induced the loss of oryzanol content from 2.8 to 2.2%w/w.
21178395	In Mammalian system the WNK (with no lysine kinase) serine-threonine protein kinase gene family is suggested to be involved in regulating ion homeostasis and other pathophysiological processes including cancer, hypertension and renal ion transport. In plant system the information about WNK genes is very poor. However, WNK-like genes have also been identified in plants, including ten in Arabidopsis, designated AtWNK1-AtWNK10. Here we report the cloning and characterization of a homologue of AtWNK1 gene from Oryza sativa indica cultivar Pusa Basmati-1 rice and designated as OsWNK1. The specific feature of this gene is lysine residue in kinase subdomain II, which is essential for the coordination of ATP in the active center and conserved among all other kinases, is absent. OsWNK1 was found to respond differentially under various abiotic stresses like cold, heat, salt, drought. OsWNK1 gene showed rhythmic expression profile under diurnal and circadian conditions at the transcription level. Our data indicates that OsWNK1 in rice might play a role in abiotic stress tolerance and that it is involved in internal rhythm.
21178484	TAL effectors are important virulence factors of bacterial plant pathogenic Xanthomonas, which infect a wide variety of plants including valuable crops like pepper, rice, and citrus. TAL proteins are translocated via the bacterial type III secretion system into host cells and induce transcription of plant genes by binding to target gene promoters. Members of the TAL effector family differ mainly in their central domain of tandemly arranged repeats of typically 34 amino acids each with hypervariable di-amino acids at positions 12 and 13. We recently showed that target DNA-recognition specificity of TAL effectors is encoded in a modular and clearly predictable mode. The repeats of TAL effectors feature a surprising one repeat-to-one-bp correlation with different repeat types exhibiting a different DNA base pair specificity. Accordingly, we predicted DNA specificities of TAL effectors and generated artificial TAL proteins with novel DNA recognition specificities. We describe here novel artificial TALs and discuss implications for the DNA recognition specificity. The unique TAL-DNA binding domain allows design of proteins with potentially any given DNA recognition specificity enabling many uses for biotechnology.
21180691	Rice is elevated in arsenic (As) compared to other staple grains. The Bangladeshi community living in the United Kingdom (UK) has a ca. 30-fold higher consumption of rice than white Caucasians. In order to assess the impact of this difference in rice consumption, urinary arsenicals of 49 volunteers in the UK (Bangladeshi n = 37; white Caucasians n = 12) were monitored along with dietary habits. Total urinary arsenic (As(t)) and speciation analysis for dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), monomethylarsonic acid (MA) and inorganic arsenic (iAs) was conducted. Although no significant difference was found for As(t) (median: Bangladeshis 28.4 µg L(-1)) and white Caucasians (20.6 µg L(-1)), the sum of medians of DMA, MA and iAs for the Bangladeshi group was found to be over 3-fold higher (17.9 µg L(-1)) than for the Caucasians (3.50 µg L(-1)). Urinary DMA was significantly higher (p < 0.001) in the UK Bangladeshis (median: 16.9 µg DMA L(-1)) than in the white Caucasians (3.16 µg DMA L(-1)) as well as iAs (p < 0.001) with a median of 0.630 µg iAs L(-1) for Bangladeshi and 0.250 µg iAs L(-1) for Caucasians. Cationic compounds were significantly lower in the Bangladeshis (2.93 µg L(-1)) than in Caucasians (14.9 µg L(-1)). The higher DMA and iAs levels in the Bangladeshis are mainly the result of higher rice consumption: arsenic is speciated in rice as both iAs and DMA, and iAs can be metabolized, through MA, to DMA by humans. This study shows that a higher dietary intake of DMA alters the DMA/MA ratio in urine. Consequently, DMA/MA ratio as an indication of methylation capacity in populations consuming large quantities of rice should be applied with caution since variation in the quantity and type of rice eaten may alter this ratio.
21180826	It is a transverse study where a questionnaire of alimentary frequency was applied (QAF) in 150 adults resident of the rural area of the city of Ibatiba (ES, Brazil). QAF classified the alimentary consumption as: habitual (>4 times in the week), not habitual (<4 times in the week) and rarely (1 time a month), with objective of correlating the alimentary consumption with the chronic-degenerative diseases. The results evidenced a habitual consumption of rice, breads, stalk, bean, cow milk, animal fat, margarine, sugar and coffee, and a non habitual consumption of cake, potato, cookies, manioc, sweet potato, chayote, carrot, beet, pumpkin, juice of fruits, banana, orange, guava, mango and tangerine. It can be concluded that the feeding habit presented by the studied population it can come to increase in a medium or long period the prevalence and occurrences of chronic-degenerative diseases as hypertension, diabetes, obesity and coronary diseases. The alimentary consumption of this population needs concern, because when compared with the national patterns, it is observed some inadequacies, and it is known that this picture comes to every day causing damages the public health.
21180977	This paper describes a new food classification which assigns foodstuffs according to the extent and purpose of the industrial processing applied to them. Three main groups are defined: unprocessed or minimally processed foods (group 1), processed culinary and food industry ingredients (group 2), and ultra-processed food products (group 3). The use of this classification is illustrated by applying it to data collected in the Brazilian Household Budget Survey which was conducted in 2002/2003 through a probabilistic sample of 48,470 Brazilian households. The average daily food availability was 1,792 kcal/person being 42.5% from group 1 (mostly rice and beans and meat and milk), 37.5% from group 2 (mostly vegetable oils, sugar, and flours), and 20% from group 3 (mostly breads, biscuits, sweets, soft drinks, and sausages). The share of group 3 foods increased with income, and represented almost one third of all calories in higher income households. The impact of the replacement of group 1 foods and group 2 ingredients by group 3 products on the overall quality of the diet, eating patterns and health is discussed.
21180993	With the purpose of generating a list of foods for a food-frequency questionnaire, data from 24h dietary recalls on a typical day from a probabilistic sample of 1,724 adults of Niterói, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, were analyzed. The frequency of food intake, the total intake of energy and macronutrients and the relative contribution of each food item to total energy and macronutrient intake were calculated. The most frequently reported food items (> 50% of adults) were rice, coffee, beans, refined canesugar, and bread. Whole milk was consumed more frequently then skimmed milk or semi-skimmed milk. Beef was consumed by more adults than chicken, pork or fish. Approximately 90% of energy and macronutrients intake was explained by 65 food items. The list of food items generated in the present analysis is similar to those found in other samples of adults from urban areas in Brazil. It may be possible to generate a core list of common foods with addition of regional foods to be used nationally in urban areas of the country.
21181114	A simple, easy, cheap and efficient analytical method for determination of multiple pesticide residues including organochlorine, organophosphorus, synthetic pyrethroids and herbicides in rice grain by capillary gas chromatography is developed. The quantification of residues was done by capillary gas chromatography with a μ-ECD detector and a HP-5MS capillary column. Known amounts of a mixture of pesticides were added to grain prior to extraction, cleanup and GC-determination. Recoveries were checked at two fortification levels; 0.1 and 0.5 μg/g. Qualitative and quantitative analysis were carried out based on the retention time and peak area basis. The results show that the average recovery of the analytical method for the fortified rice samples was in the range of 74%-111% and %RSD in the range of 2.41-12.42. The analytical method was used to analyze commercial rice grain samples.
21181262	An ecotoxicological screening of environmental samples collected in the vicinity of rice fields followed a combination of physical and chemical measurements and chronic bioassays with two freshwater trophic levels (microalgae: Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and Chlorella vulgaris; daphnids: Daphnia longispina and Daphnia magna). As so, water and sediment/soil elutriate samples were obtained from three sites: (1) in a canal reach crossing a protected wetland upstream, (2) in a canal reach surrounded by rice fields and (3) in a rice paddy. The sampling was performed before and during the rice culture. During the rice cropping, the whole system quality decreased comparatively to the situation before that period (e.g. nutrient overload, the presence of pesticides in elutriates from sites L2 and L3). This was reinforced by a significant inhibition of both microalgae growth, especially under elutriates. Contrary, the life-history traits of daphnids were significantly stimulated with increasing concentrations of water and elutriates, for both sampling periods.
21181346	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight in rice, interacts with rice plants in a gene-for-gene manner. The specificity of the interaction is dictated by avirulence (avr) genes in the pathogen and resistance (R) genes in the host. To date, no avr genes that correspond to recessive R genes have been isolated. We isolated an avrBs3/pthA family gene, avrxa5, from our previously isolated clone p58, which was originally from strain JXOIII. The avrxa5 gene converted the PXO99(A) strain from compatible to incompatible in rice cultivars containing the recessive xa5 gene, but not in those containing the dominant Xa5 gene. Sequencing indicated that avrxa5, which is highly similar to members of the avrBs3/pthA family, encodes a protein of 1238 amino acid residues with a conserved carboxy-terminal region containing three nuclear localization signals and a transcription activation domain. It has 19.5 34-amino-acid direct repeats, but the 13th amino acid is missing in the fifth and ninth repetitive units. Domain swapping of the repetitive regions between avrxa5 and avrXa7 changed the avirulence specificity of the genes in xa5 and Xa7 rice lines, respectively. This indicates that avrxa5 is distinct from previously characterized avrBs3/pthA members. The specificity of avrxa5 toward recessive xa5 in rice could help us better understand the molecular mechanisms of plant-pathogen specific interactions.
21181347	Plant architecture determines grain production in rice (Oryza sativa) and is affected by important agronomic traits such as tillering, plant height, and panicle morphology. Many key genes involved in controlling the initiation and outgrowth of axillary buds, the elongation of stems, and the architecture of inflorescences have been isolated and analyzed. Previous studies have shown that SiPf40, which was identified from a foxtail millet (Setaria italica) immature seed cDNA library, causes extra branches and tillers in SiPf40-transgenic tobacco and foxtail millet, respectively. To reconfirm its function, we generated transgenic rice plants overexpressing SiPf40 under the control of the ubiquitin promoter. SiPf40-overexpressing transgenic plants have a greater tillering number and a wider tiller angle than wild-type plants. Their root architecture is modified by the promotion of lateral root development, and the distribution of xylem and phloem in the vascular bundle is affected. Analysis of hormone levels showed that the ratios of indole-3-acetic acid/zeatin (IAA/ZR) and IAA/gibberellic acid (IAA/GA) decreased in SiPf40-transgenic plants compared with wild-type plants. These findings strongly suggest that SiPf40 plays an important role in plant architecture.
21181348	The growths of two rice genotypes (Jin23A and CDR22) under the coexistence of As and Cr in solution culture with and without P were investigated. The result showed that rice shoot dry weight decreased due to the complex contamination of As and Cr, however, the influences on plant height, root length and root dry weight were insignificant.
21181349	Rice (Oryza sativa) feeds over half of the global population. A web-based integrated platform for rice microarray annotation and data analysis in various biological contexts is presented, which provides a convenient query for comprehensive annotation compared with similar databases. Coupled with existing rice microarray data, it provides online analysis methods from the perspective of bioinformatics. This comprehensive bioinformatics analysis platform is composed of five modules, including data retrieval, microarray annotation, sequence analysis, results visualization and data analysis. The BioChip module facilitates the retrieval of microarray data information via identifiers of "Probe Set ID", "Locus ID" and "Analysis Name". The BioAnno module is used to annotate the gene or probe set based on the gene function, the domain information, the KEGG biochemical and regulatory pathways and the potential microRNA which regulates the genes. The BioSeq module lists all of the related sequence information by a microarray probe set. The BioView module provides various visual results for the microarray data. The BioAnaly module is used to analyze the rice microarray's data set.
21181597	Deterministic and probabilistic estimates of the chronic exposure to lead (Pb) for the inhabitants in Jiangsu Province, China, were performed. Pb contamination data were obtained from the national food contamination monitoring programme during 2001-2006 and 2600 samples from 38 commodities in Jiangsu were included. Food consumption data were from the national diet and nutrition survey conducted in 2002, including 3879 subjects aged 2-80 years and 185 children aged 2-6 years in Jiangsu. Contributions from 38 commodities were included in the calculations. Using the provisional tolerable weekly intakes (PTWI) divided into daily intakes (PTWI(d)) of 3.57 microg kg(-1) bw day(-1) in the risk assessment, exposures calculated by the deterministic approach for children and the general population were 77% and 43% of the PTWI(d), respectively, which were nearly similar to the mean intake calculation in the probabilistic approach. The percentage of people whose exposure level exceeded the PTWI(d) for children, the general population, urban population and rural population were 16%, 0.4%, 0.1%, and 0.5%, respectively. The 50th, 95th and 99th percentiles of Pb exposure for children were 2.6, 4.4 and 5.5 microg kg(-1) bw day(-1), respectively. Rice followed by wheat flour and bean products contributed most to the total Pb intake for both children and the general population. This study indicated that the Pb dietary exposure in Jiangsu Province, especially for children, would be a public health concern.
2118565	An infant formula based on high protein rice flour, with added lysine and threonine, was evaluated in recovering malnourished infants. Acceptability, tolerance, and the digestibility of most major nutrients (energy 93.9 +/- 0.7%, fat 96.9 +/- 0.3%, carbohydrate 96.8 +/- 0.6% of intake) were excellent. Digestibility of protein, as with all rice products, was moderately low (80.1 +/- 3.3%), but its high biological value made N retention equal to that from casein. Plasma-free amino acids were consistent with the low essential/total amino acids ratio found in cereals, with slower absorption, and with the possibility that leucine was the first-limiting amino acid. Absorptions of Ca, Mg, PO4, and Zn were considered satisfactory. Energy costs of weight gain and the estimated percentage N in the weight gained during 14 days were comparable to those attained with the highest quality cow's milk-derived formulas in children of similar ages and nutritional status.
21186175	Similarity of gene expression profiles provides important clues for understanding the biological functions of genes, biological processes and metabolic pathways related to genes. A gene expression network (GEN) is an ideal choice to grasp such expression profile similarities among genes simultaneously. For GEN construction, the Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC) has been widely used as an index to evaluate the similarities of expression profiles for gene pairs. However, calculation of PCCs for all gene pairs requires large amounts of both time and computer resources. Based on correspondence analysis, we developed a new method for GEN construction, which takes minimal time even for large-scale expression data with general computational circumstances. Moreover, our method requires no prior parameters to remove sample redundancies in the data set. Using the new method, we constructed rice GENs from large-scale microarray data stored in a public database. We then collected and integrated various principal rice omics annotations in public and distinct databases. The integrated information contains annotations of genome, transcriptome and metabolic pathways. We thus developed the integrated database OryzaExpress for browsing GENs with an interactive and graphical viewer and principal omics annotations (http://riceball.lab.nig.ac.jp/oryzaexpress/). With integration of Arabidopsis GEN data from ATTED-II, OryzaExpress also allows us to compare GENs between rice and Arabidopsis. Thus, OryzaExpress is a comprehensive rice database that exploits powerful omics approaches from all perspectives in plant science and leads to systems biology.
21186176	Identification of gene function is important not only for basic research but also for applied science, especially with regard to improvements in crop production. For rapid and efficient elucidation of useful traits, we developed a system named FOX hunting (Full-length cDNA Over-eXpressor gene hunting) using full-length cDNAs (fl-cDNAs). A heterologous expression approach provides a solution for the high-throughput characterization of gene functions in agricultural plant species. Since fl-cDNAs contain all the information of functional mRNAs and proteins, we introduced rice fl-cDNAs into Arabidopsis plants for systematic gain-of-function mutation. We generated >30,000 independent Arabidopsis transgenic lines expressing rice fl-cDNAs (rice FOX Arabidopsis mutant lines). These rice FOX Arabidopsis lines were screened systematically for various criteria such as morphology, photosynthesis, UV resistance, element composition, plant hormone profile, metabolite profile/fingerprinting, bacterial resistance, and heat and salt tolerance. The information obtained from these screenings was compiled into a database named 'RiceFOX'. This database contains around 18,000 records of rice FOX Arabidopsis lines and allows users to search against all the observed results, ranging from morphological to invisible traits. The number of searchable items is approximately 100; moreover, the rice FOX Arabidopsis lines can be searched by rice and Arabidopsis gene/protein identifiers, sequence similarity to the introduced rice fl-cDNA and traits. The RiceFOX database is available at http://ricefox.psc.riken.jp/.
2118618	Rice starch is a main source of energy in many lesser developed countries. We studied different chain-lengths of rice glucose polymers (GP) to evaluate their possible use in feeding infants in developing countries. The initial GP of rice (G1 = 4.6, G2 = 4.5, G3 = 15.4, G4 = 7.3, G5 = 17.4, G6-G9 = 9.61 and greater than G9 = 31.3%) was analyzed by HPLC and then separated in a Bio-Gel P-2 column and compared to its short-chain GP of rice (G2 = 22.7, G3 = 28.2, G4 = 14.0, G5 = 16.6, G6 = 11.6, G7-G9 = 6.9%), long-chain GP of rice (greater than G9 = 100%), and D-glucose. Intraduodenal bolus infusion of 10% solution of short-chain rice GP when compared with long-chain rice GP, the initial rice GP, or D-glucose showed significantly higher values at peak absorption time (0 to 30 min) in the portal venous blood glucose response. The portal venous glycemic response of short-chain rice GP compared with D-glucose was as follows: 2.5 +/- 0.1 versus 2.0 +/- 0.2 cm2, area under the portal blood glucose curve at 0-30 min (p less than 0.01). Glucoamylase, the key enzyme for brush-border hydrolysis of short-chain GP, was assessed with a newly modified glucoamylase assay using GP G5-G8 as substrate. Our finding of faster glucose absorption with short-chain rice GP compared with isocaloric D-glucose might have important physiologic implications for carbohydrate absorption. The osmolality of short-chain rice GP is nearly one-fourth that of glucose. This might have important bearing in the design of infant feeding where increased caloric density with low osmolality is desirable.
21186943	Earthworms are one of the most important and beneficial macrofauna, and are used extensively in organic farming. Earthworms mediate soil biological regulation systems, and produce biogenic structures. They help to maintain soil structure, water infiltration, and regulate the availability of nutrients assimilated by plants. The objectives of this study were to perform morphological and molecular characterizations of 24 earthworm individuals collected from geographically diverse locations to assess the level of genetic variation. For molecular analysis, the effectiveness of RAPD, ISSR, and Universal rice primers (URPs) markers was investigated to identify polymorphism among 24 isolates of earthworms. A total of 62 molecular markers were used for amplification of genomic DNA of earthworms. Of these, 10 RAPD, 10 ISSR, and 10 URPs markers were used for characterization, which showed 95.7%, 96.7% and 98.3% polymorphism, respectively. The dendrogram, generated from the DNA markers by the unweighted pair group method using arithmetic averages, grouped all the isolates into two main clusters. All Eisenia fetida isolates were clustered in group A, whereas group B included three isolates belonging to Eudrilus eugeniae. Molecular markers allowed a rapid assessment of genetic variation among these closely related isolates of earthworms. These results suggest that molecular markers are a good choice for diversity analysis of earthworm individuals.
21187503	This study examined the efficacy of arabinoxylan rice bran (MGN-3) in conjunction with an interventional therapy (IT) for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma patients. A total of sixty-eight patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (stages I and II) participated in the study. Patients were randomized to receive IT (30 patients, control group) or IT+MGN-3 (38 patients), and randomly divided into two groups using a computer-generated randomization list. Patients and investigators were blinded. IT included transarterial oily chemoembolization (TOCE) or a combination of TOCE and percutaneous ethanol injection treatment (PEIT). Patients in the IT+MGN-3 group showed: (i) lower recurrence of the disease, 31.6% (12/38), as compared to 46.7% (14/30) for the control; (ii) higher survival after the second year, 35%, as compared to 6.7% for the control; (iii) significantly lower alpha-fetoprotein level, a 38% decrease (p = 0.0001), as compared to baseline value, while the control showed no significant change; and (iv) a significant decrease in tumor volume, in contrast to the control, which showed no significant change. When the results were analyzed according to each IT modality, MGN-3+IT sub-groups displayed a greater response to treatment, in every aspect examined, than the IT sub-groups alone. However, the patients in the MGN-3+TOCE+PEIT sub-group demonstrated greater reduction in AFP levels and longer survival time than the MGN-3+TOCE sub-group. MGN-3 in conjunction with IT may be useful for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and warrants further investigation in multiple clinical trials.
21189870	Intake of anthocyanin-rich foods has been associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular diseases. Supplementation with anthocyanin-rich extracts from black rice or purple sweet potato was reported to attenuate atherosclerotic lesion development in apolipoprotein E-deficient (apo E(-/-)) mice. However, the mechanism(s) of their preventive action are not completely understood. Previous studies revealed that anthocyanins altered mRNA levels of genes related to atherosclerosis in cultured macrophages and endothelial cells, but in vivo studies remain scarce. The aim of the study was to investigate the impact of bilberry anthocyanin-rich extract (BE) supplementation on gene expression in the liver of apo E(-/-) mice, the widely used model of atherosclerosis. The liver was chosen because it is the main site of lipid metabolism. Apo E(-/-) mice received for 2 weeks a standard diet supplemented with a nutritional dose of BE (0.02%). This study focused on the early stage of atherosclerosis development for better assessment of anthocyanin action on initiation mechanisms of this pathology. The results showed that a 2-week supplementation significantly reduced plasmatic total cholesterol and hepatic triglyceride levels, whereas the plasmatic antioxidant status remained unchanged. Transcriptional analysis, using microarrays, revealed that the expression of 2,289 genes was significantly altered. BE over-expressed genes involved in bile acid synthesis and cholesterol uptake into the liver and down-regulated the expression of pro-inflammatory genes. These results suggest an anti-atherogenic effect of BE through the regulation of cholesterol metabolism and liver inflammation and provide a global integrated view of the mechanisms involved in the preventive action of this extract. The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12263-010-0171-0) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
21190588	Rice CEBiP recognizes chitin oligosaccharides on the fungal cell surface or released into the plant apoplast, leading to the expression of plant disease resistance against fungal infection. However, it has not yet been reported whether CEBiP is actually required for restricting the growth of fungal pathogens. Here we evaluated the involvement of a putative chitin receptor gene in the basal resistance of barley to the ssd1 mutant of Magnaporthe oryzae, which induces multiple host defense responses. The mossd1 mutant showed attenuated pathogenicity on barley and appressorial penetration was restricted by the formation of callose papillae at attempted entry sites. When conidial suspensions of mossd1 mutant were spotted onto the leaves of HvCEBiP-silenced plants, small brown necrotic flecks or blast lesions were produced but these lesions did not expand beyond the inoculation site. Wild-type M. oryzae also produced slightly more severe symptoms on the leaves of HvCEBiP-silenced plants. Cytological observation revealed that these lesions resulted from appressorium-mediated penetration into plant epidermal cells. These results suggest that HvCEBiP is involved in basal resistance against appressorium-mediated infection and that basal resistance might be triggered by the recognition of chitin oligosaccharides derived from M. oryzae.
21190841	Agro-industrial wastes of cattle dung, vinegar-production residue and rice straw were solid-state fermented by inoculation with Trichoderma harzianum SQR-T037 (SQR-T037) for production of bioorganic fertilizers containing SQR-T037 and 6-pentyl-α-pyrone (6PAP) to control Fusarium wilt of cucumber in a continuously cropped soil. Fermentation days, temperature, inoculum and vinegar-production residue demonstrated significant effects on the SQR-T037 biomass and the yield of 6PAP, based on fractional factorial design. Three optimum conditions for producing the maximum SQR-T037 biomass and 6PAP yield were predicted by central composite design and validated. Bioorganic fertilizer containing 8.46 log(10) ITS copies g(-1) dry weight of SQR-T037 and 1291.73 mg kg(-1) dry weight of 6PAP, and having the highest (p<0.05) biocontrol efficacy, was achieved at 36.7 fermentation days, 25.9°C temperature, 7.6% inoculum content, 41.0% vinegar-production residue, 20.0% rice straw and 39.0% cattle dung. This is a way to offer a high value-added use for agro-industrial wastes.
21191024	Rice dwarf virus (RDV), with 12 double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) genome segments (S1 to S12), replicates in and is transmitted by vector insects. The RDV-plant host-vector insect system allows us to examine the evolution, adaptation, and population genetics of a plant virus. We compared the effects of long-term maintenance of RDV on population structures in its two hosts. The maintenance of RDV in rice plants for several years resulted in gradual accumulation of nonsense mutations in S2 and S10, absence of expression of the encoded proteins, and complete loss of transmissibility. RDV maintained in cultured insect cells for 6 years retained an intact protein-encoding genome. Thus, the structural P2 protein encoded by S2 and the nonstructural Pns10 protein encoded by S10 of RDV are subject to different selective pressures in the two hosts, and mutations accumulating in the host plant are detrimental in vector insects. However, one round of propagation in insect cells or individuals purged the populations of RDV that had accumulated deleterious mutations in host plants, with exclusive survival of fully competent RDV. Our results suggest that during the course of evolution, an ancestral form of RDV, of insect virus origin, might have acquired the ability to replicate in a host plant, given its reproducible mutations in the host plant that abolish vector transmissibility and viability in nature.
21191821	Greenhouse hydroponic experiments were conducted using Cd-sensitive (Xiushui63) and tolerant (Bing97252) rice genotypes to evaluate genotypic differences in response of photosynthesis and phytochelatins to Cd toxicity in the presence of exogenous glutathione (GSH). Plant height, chlorophyll content, net photosynthetic rate (Pn), and biomass decreased in 5 and 50 μM Cd treatments, and Cd-sensitive genotype showed more severe reduction than the tolerant one. Cadmium stress caused decrease in maximal photochemical efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) and effective PSII quantum yield [Y(II)] and increase in quantum yield of regulated energy dissipation [Y(NPQ)], with changes in Cd-sensitive genotype being more evident. Cadmium-induced phytochelatins (PCs), GSH, and cysteine accumulation was observed in roots of both genotypes, with markedly higher level in PCs and GSH on day 5 in Bing97252 compared with that measured in Xiushui63. Exogenous GSH significantly alleviated growth inhibition in Xiushui63 under 5 μM Cd and in both genotypes in 50 μM Cd. External GSH significantly increased chlorophyll content, Pn, Fv/Fm, and Y(II) of plants exposed to Cd, but decreased Y(NPQ) and the coefficient of non-photochemical quenching (qN). GSH addition significantly increased root GSH content in plants under Cd exposure (except day 5 of 50 μM Cd) and induced up-regulation in PCs of 5 μM-Cd-treated Bing97252 throughout the 15-day and Xiushui63 of 5-day exposure. The results suggest that genotypic difference in the tolerance to Cd stress was positively linked to the capacity in elevation of GSH and PCs, and that alleviation of Cd toxicity by GSH is related to significant improvement in chlorophyll content, photosynthetic performance, and root GSH levels.
21191865	This investigation was performed to determine the effect of physicochemical soil properties on penoxsulam, molinate, bentazon, and MCPA adsorption-desorption processes. Four soils from Melozal (35° 43' S; 71° 41' W), Parral (36° 08' S; 71° 52' W), San Carlos (36° 24' S; 71° 57' W), and Panimavida (35° 44' S; 71° 24' W) were utilized. Herbicide adsorption reached equilibrium after 4 h in all soils. The Freundlich L-type isotherm described the adsorption process, which showed a high affinity between herbicides and sorption sites mainly because of hydrophobic and H-bonds interaction. Penoxsulam showed the highest adsorption coefficients (4.23 ± 0.72 to 10.69 ± 1.58 mL g⁻¹) and were related to soil pH. Molinate showed K(d) values between 1.72 ± 0.01 and 2.3 ± 0.01 mL g⁻¹ and were related to soil pH and organic matter, specifically to the amount of humic substances. Bentazon had a high relationship with pH and humic substances and its K(d) values were the lowest, ranging from 0.11 ± 0.01 to 0.42 ± 0.01 mL g⁻¹. MCPA K(d) ranged from 0.14 ± 0.02 to 2.72 ± 0.01 mL g⁻¹, however its adsorption was related to humic acids and clay content. According to these results, the soil factors that could explain the sorption process of the studied herbicides under paddy rice soil conditions, were principally humic substances and soil pH. Considering the sorption variability observed in this study and the potential risk for groundwater contamination, it is necessary to develop weed rice management strategies that limit use of herbicides that exhibit low soil adsorption in areas with predisposing conditions to soil leaching.
2119209	Bacillus cereus can give rise to two distinct forms of foodborne disease, the emetic and the diarrhoeal syndromes. The emetic syndrome is believed to be associated with an emetic toxin pre-formed in food. Cooked rice is the most common vehicle, and the symptoms are similar to those of Staphylococcus aureus intoxication. The diarrhoeal type is caused by an enterotoxin and the symptoms generally parallel those of the Clostridium perfringens food poisoning. The heat resistance of B. cereus spores and the non-fastidious nature of the organism facilitates its survival and/or growth in a wide variety of foods. This review describes analytical methods available for the isolation, identification, and enumeration of the organism, in addition to details about biological and immunological methods for toxin assay. Data are also presented concerning the incidence and epidemiology of B. cereus food poisoning around the world, and especially in Japan.
21192807	Grain endosperm chalkiness of rice is a varietal characteristic that negatively affects not only the appearance and milling properties but also the cooking texture and palatability of cooked rice. However, grain chalkiness is a complex quantitative genetic trait and the molecular mechanisms underlying its formation are poorly understood. A near-isogenic line CSSL50-1 with high chalkiness was compared with its normal parental line Asominori for grain endosperm chalkiness. Physico-biochemical analyses of ripened grains showed that, compared with Asominori, CSSL50-1 contains higher levels of amylose and 8 DP (degree of polymerization) short-chain amylopectin, but lower medium length 12 DP amylopectin. Transcriptome analysis of 15 DAF (day after flowering) caryopses of the isogenic lines identified 623 differential expressed genes (P < 0.01), among which 324 genes are up-regulated and 299 down-regulated. These genes were classified into 18 major categories, with 65.3% of them belong to six major functional groups: signal transduction, cell rescue/defense, transcription, protein degradation, carbohydrate metabolism and redox homeostasis. Detailed pathway dissection demonstrated that genes involved in sucrose and starch synthesis are up-regulated, whereas those involved in non-starch polysaccharides are down regulated. Several genes involved in oxidoreductive homeostasis were found to have higher expression levels in CSSL50-1 as well, suggesting potential roles of ROS in grain chalkiness formation. Extensive gene expression changes were detected during rice grain chalkiness formation. Over half of these differentially expressed genes are implicated in several important categories of genes, including signal transduction, transcription, carbohydrate metabolism and redox homeostasis, suggesting that chalkiness formation involves multiple metabolic and regulatory pathways.
21192820	In plants, HIR (Hypersensitive Induced Reaction) proteins, members of the PID (Proliferation, Ion and Death) superfamily, have been shown to play a part in the development of spontaneous hypersensitive response lesions in leaves, in reaction to pathogen attacks. The levels of HIR proteins were shown to correlate with localized host cell deaths and defense responses in maize and barley. However, not much was known about the HIR proteins in rice. Since rice is an important cereal crop consumed by more than 50% of the populations in Asia and Africa, it is crucial to understand the mechanisms of disease responses in this plant. We previously identified the rice HIR1 (OsHIR1) as an interacting partner of the OsLRR1 (rice Leucine-Rich Repeat protein 1). Here we show that OsHIR1 triggers hypersensitive cell death and its localization to the plasma membrane is enhanced by OsLRR1. Through electron microscopy studies using wild type rice plants, OsHIR1 was found to mainly localize to the plasma membrane, with a minor portion localized to the tonoplast. Moreover, the plasma membrane localization of OsHIR1 was enhanced in transgenic rice plants overexpressing its interacting protein partner, OsLRR1. Co-localization of OsHIR1 and OsLRR1 to the plasma membrane was confirmed by double-labeling electron microscopy. Pathogen inoculation studies using transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana expressing either OsHIR1 or OsLRR1 showed that both transgenic lines exhibited increased resistance toward the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000. However, OsHIR1 transgenic plants produced more extensive spontaneous hypersensitive response lesions and contained lower titers of the invading pathogen, when compared to OsLRR1 transgenic plants. The OsHIR1 protein is mainly localized to the plasma membrane, and its subcellular localization in that compartment is enhanced by OsLRR1. The expression of OsHIR1 may sensitize the plant so that it is more prone to HR and hence can react more promptly to limit the invading pathogens' spread from the infection sites.
21192945	The rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis Walker, overwinters in China as a larva in facultative diapause. The instars and body weights of overwintering larvae vary widely. In this paper, the relationships between body weight and supercooling capacity, diapause intensity and post-diapause reproductive potential of overwintering larvae collected in late-stage rice field were examined. There was a significant positive correlation between body weight, instar, and head capsule width, thus the overwintering larvae were divided into five groups based on body weight (I, up to 35.0mg; II, 35.1-57.0mg; III, 57.1-79.0mg; IV, 79.1-101.0mg; and V, over 101.1mg) for further analysis. The body water content of the lighter group (I) was significantly higher than that of the heavier groups (IV-V). However, the mean supercooling point decreased with an increase of the mean larval body weight in five groups; mean supercooling point of group I was significantly lower than that of group V, except in January 2009. After transfer of overwintering larvae to 15, 20 and 25°C on different dates, smaller individuals pupated slightly faster than larger ones at the same temperature, suggesting that diapause was less intense in smaller overwintering larvae. On 19 March 2009 there was a strong positive correlation between larval body weight and the weight of 3 day-old pupae, and the number of eggs carried by 2 day-old adult females at 15, 20 and 25°C. The average number of eggs carried by 2 day-old adult females differed significantly among different groups. The average number of eggs carried by 2 day-old adult females in group V was significantly greater than those of other groups, and that of group I was significantly lower than those of other groups, suggesting that post-diapause reproductive potential was determined, to a certain extent, by body weight of the overwintering larvae.
21193158	Epistasis plays an important role in the genetic basis of rice yield traits. Taking interactions into account in breeding programs will help the development of high-yielding rice varieties. In this study, three sets of near isogenic lines (NILs) targeting three QTLs for spikelets per panicle (SPP), namely qSPP1, qSPP2 and qSPP7, which share the same Zhenshan 97 genetic background, were used to produce an F(2) population in which the three QTLs segregated simultaneously. The genotypes of the individual F(2) plants at the three QTLs were replaced with three markers that are closely linked to the corresponding QTLs. These QTLs were validated in the F(2) and F(3) populations at the single marker level. qSPP7 exhibited major pleiotropic effects on SPP, plant height and heading date. Multifactor analysis of variance was performed for the F(2) population and its progeny. Additive (additive interaction between qSPP2 and qSPP7 had significant effects on SPP in both the F(2) population and its progeny. Both additive and additive (additive interactions could explain about 73% of the total SPP phenotypic variance. The SPP performance of 27 three-locus combinations was ranked and favorable combinations were recommended for rice breeding in different ecosystems.
21193578	An indica pyramiding line, DK151, and its recurrent parent, IR64, were evaluated under drought stress and non-stress conditions for three consecutive seasons. DK151 showed significantly improved tolerance to drought. The DNA methylation changes in DK151 and IR64 under drought stress and subsequent recovery were assessed using methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism analysis. Our results indicate that drought-induced genome-wide DNA methylation changes accounted for ∼12.1% of the total site-specific methylation differences in the rice genome. This drought-induced DNA methylation pattern showed three interesting properties. The most important one was its genotypic specificity reflected by large differences in the detected DNA methylation/demethylation sites between DK151 and IR64, which result from introgressed genomic fragments in DK151. Second, most drought-induced methylation/demethylation sites were of two major types distinguished by their reversibility, including 70% of the sites at which drought-induced epigenetic changes were reversed to their original status after recovery, and 29% of sites at which the drought-induced DNA demethylation/methylation changes remain even after recovery. Third, the drought-induced DNA methylation alteration showed a significant level of developmental and tissue specificity. Together, these properties are expected to have contributed greatly to rice response and adaptation to drought stress. Thus, induced epigenetic changes in rice genome can be considered as a very important regulatory mechanism for rice plants to adapt to drought and possibly other environmental stresses.
21193827	Korean traditional rice wines yakju and takju are generally brewed with nuruk as the source of the saccharogenic enzymes by natural fermentation. To improve the quality of Korean rice wine, the microorganisms in the nuruk need to be studied. The objective of this research was to improve the quality of Korean wine with the wild-type yeast strains isolated from the fermentation starter, nuruk. Only strain YA-6 showed high activity in 20% ethanol. Precipitation of Y89-5-3 was similar to that of very flocculent yeast (〉80%) at 75.95%. Using 18S rRNA sequencing, all 10 strains were identified as Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Volatile compounds present in yakju were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass selective detector. The principal component analysis (PCA) of the volatile compounds grouped long-chain esters on the right side of the first principal component, PC1; these compounds were found in yakju that was made with strains YA-6, Y89-5-3, Y89-5- 2, Y90-9, and Y89-1-1. On the other side of PC1 were short-chain esters; these compounds were found in wines that were brewed with strains Y183-2, Y268-3, Y54-3, Y98-4, and Y88-4. Overall, the results indicated that using different wild-type yeast strains in the fermentation process significantly affects the chemical characteristics of the glutinous rice wine.
21193832	The role of endophytic fungi in plant growth and development is well documented. However, endophytic fungi with growth promotion capacity have never been isolated from weeds previously. In the current study, we isolated 8 fungal endophytes from the roots of Monochoria vaginalis, a serious weed of rice paddy in Korea. These isolates were screened on Waito-C, in order to identify plant growth promoting metabolites. Two fungal isolates (M5.A & M1.5) significantly promoted the plant height and shoot length of Waito-C during preliminary screening experiments. The culture filtrates (CFs) of M5.A and M1.5 also promoted the shoot length of Echinocloa crusgalli. Gibberellins (GAs) analysis of the CFs of M5.A and M1.5 showed that these endophytic fungi secrete higher quantities of GAs as compared with wild-type G. fujikuroi KCCM12329. The CF of M5.A contained bioactive GAs (GA3, 2.8 ng/ml; GA4, 2.6 ng/ml, and GA7, 6.68 ng/ml) in conjunction with physiologically inactive GA9 (1.61 ng/ml) and GA24 (0.18 ng/ml). The CF of M1.5 contained physiologically active GAs (GA3, 1.64 ng/ml; GA4, 1.37 ng/ml and GA7, 6.29 ng/ml) in conjunction with physiologically inactive GA9 (3.44 ng/ml), GA12 (0.3 ng/ml), and GA24 (0.59 ng/ml). M5.A and M1.5 were identified as new strains of Penicillium sp. and Aspergillus sp., respectively, based on their 18S rDNA sequence homology and phylogenetic analysis.
21194835	An environmentally friendly and economically effective process to produce silica and activated carbon form rice husk ask simultaneously has been developed in this study. An extraction yield of silica of 72-98% was obtained and the particle size was 40-50 nm. The microstructures of the as-obtained silica powders were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and infrared spectra (IR). The surface area, iodine number and capacitance value of activated carbon could achieve 570 m(2)/g, 1708 mg/g, 180 F/g, respectively. In the whole synthetic procedure, the wastewater and the carbon dioxide were collected and reutilized. The recovery rate of sodium carbonate was achieved 92.25%. The process is inexpensive, sustainable, environmentally friendly and suitable for large-scale production.
21196759	Lipid transfer protein (LTP), the most frequent cause of primary food allergy in Italy, is a cross-reacting plant pan-allergen. Markers able to predict whether a patient sensitized to a certain food but not yet clinically allergic will develop allergy would be extremely helpful. It was the aim of this study to investigate the relevance of IgE levels to some plant foods other than Rosaceae as predictors of either local or systemic allergic reaction in LTP-allergic subjects. One hundred (40 males, 60 females , mean age 29 years) peach-allergic patients monosensitized to LTP seen at 14 Italian centres in 2009 were studied. Walnut, hazelnut, peanut, tomato, rice and/or maize allergy was ascertained by interview and confirmed by positive skin prick test. IgE levels to these foods and to rPru p 3 were measured. Higher levels of IgE to Pru p 3 were associated with a higher prevalence of allergy to hazelnut, peanut and walnut. For all study foods, except rice, median IgE levels in allergic subjects significantly exceeded those in tolerant subjects, though within single allergic groups, the differences between patients reporting systemic or local (oral) symptoms were not significant. Ninety-five percent cut-off IgE levels predictive of clinical allergy were established for study foods although the marked overlaps between allergic and tolerant subjects made them of limited usefulness. Specific IgE levels are only partially predictive of clinical allergy. The reasons why some individuals showing low specific IgE levels develop clinical allergy whereas others showing high IgE levels do not, despite similar exposure to the allergen, remain unclear.
2119760
21197604	The anatomical and physiological changes of the gastrointestinal tract after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass lead to changes in dietary patterns and their effects are still little known. Hence, the objective of this work was to characterize the prevalence, the associated factors and the list of food aversions with the effect of surgery on the body weight of women in the first two years after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. A total of 141 women were studied. Their food aversions were assessed with a short food frequency questionnaire (FFQ-S) containing 26 items before and 6, 12 and 24 months after surgery. The FFQ-S was filled out during individual interviews and referenced in the medical records. The association between total aversion score and body weight variables and general characteristics of the group was analyzed. Variation of food aversions over time was assessed for 26 foods individually and grouped. Of all the studied variables, a weak but significant negative correlation (rs = -0.1944; p = 0.0208) was found between total aversion score and shorter postoperative period and a weak but significant positive correlation was found between total aversion score and percentage of weight regained (rs = -0.1759; p = 0.0369). Food aversions were more common in the first six months after surgery, especially to red meats, rice, chicken, eggs, pasta, milk and others. Food aversions in the early postoperative period are associated with weight variations in the first two years after surgery and subside significantly over time, probably because of a physiological and cognitive adaptation of the individual to the surgical procedure.
21198683	Soil drainage is one of the most promising approaches to mitigate methane (CH(4)) emission from paddy fields. The microbial mechanism for the drainage effect on CH(4) emission, however, remains poorly understood. In the present study, we determined the effect of short (four drainages of 5-6 days each) and long drainage cycles (two drainages of 10-11 days each) on CH(4) emission and analyzed the response of the structure and abundance of methanogens and methanotrophs in a Chinese rice field soil at the DNA level. Rice biomass production was similar between drainage and the practice of continuous flooding. The rate of CH(4) emission, however, was reduced by 59% and 85% for the long and short drainage cycles, respectively. Quantitative (real-time) PCR analysis revealed that the total abundance of archaeal populations decreased by 40% after multiple drainages, indicating the inhibitory effects on methanogen growth. The structure of the methanogen community as determined by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, however, remained unaffected by drainages, although it varied among rhizosphere, bulk and surface soils. Quantitative PCR analysis of the methanotrophic functional pmoA genes revealed that the total abundance of methanotrophs in rhizosphere soil increased two to three times after soil drainages, indicating a stimulation of methanotroph growth. The CH(4) oxidation potential in the rhizosphere soil also increased significantly. Furthermore, drainages caused a shift of the methanotrophic community, with a significantly increase of type II methanotrophic bacteria in the rhizosphere and surface soil. Thus, both inhibition of methanogens and stimulation of methanotrophs were partly responsible for the reduction of CH(4) emissions. The methanotroph community, however, appeared to react more sensitively to soil drainage compared with the methanogen community.
2119897	The vaccine (NANP)3-TT is a synthetic peptide of the circumsporozoite protein (CS) of Plasmodium falciparum coupled to tetanus toxoid (TT) as protein carrier and adsorbed to aluminium hydroxide as adjuvant. The objectives of the study were to assess the immunogenicity and the protective efficacy of the vaccine in an area where malaria is endemic. The study was conducted in a zone of irrigated rice cultivation known as the Vallée du Kou to the North of Bobo-Dioulasso. Malaria transmission is permanent in the Vallée with maxima in July and November. The study was conducted from June to December 1988. It was a controlled randomised, double blind, prospective vaccine trial. A total of 123 infants from 3 to 5 months of age were randomly assigned to three groups. Group I (controls) received three doses of TT alone, group II received two doses of TT and one of (NANP)3-TT and group III received three doses of (NANP)3-TT. These vaccines were administered simultaneously with the Enlarged Program of Immunisation (EPI) vaccines. The clinical parasitological and immunological status of the children was then monitored over a period of five months. No systemic reactions to the vaccine were observed in the infants either immediately after administration or during the follow-up. Minor local tumefactions were observed in only 3% of the children. The vaccine was found to be immunogenic with a peak IgG response at day 75, when 56% (group II) and 60% (group III) showed antibody titres of at least four times that seen at day 0. The response, however, was a short duration; by day 150 the average antibody titres were not significantly different between the three groups. The incidence and the level of parasiaemia and the incidence of clinical malaria were also not significantly different for each of the three groups during the period of the study. The association of (NANP)3 with tetanus toxoid was not shown to be immunologically inhibitive. The results, despite not showing a protective effect for the vaccine (NANP)3-TT, have shown its immunogenicity and therefore suggest that further development of this vaccine may be worthwhile.
21204108	Cyprinus carpio fish were exposed to penoxsulam (Ricer) in field conditions. The experiment in the rice field was carried out for 7, 21 and 72 days. Oxidative stress parameters and antioxidant profile were studied. The acetylcholinesterase (AChE) enzyme activity in the brain was increased after 7 days and reduced after 21 and 72 days of the experiment in the rice field. The AChE activity in muscle was reduced only after 72 days of exposure. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive species were increased in the liver, brain and muscle at 7 days of the trial, reduced at 21 days in the brain and unaltered after 72 days of exposure in muscle. However, an increase in this parameter in the brain and liver was observed. Liver glutathione S-transferase was reduced at 7 days, unchanged at 21 days and increased after 72 days of exposure. Catalase of the liver changed only in the second experimental period, when it was reduced. Liver protein carbonyl was reduced at 7 days and increased at 21 and 72 days of exposure. This study shows long-term effects of rice herbicide at environmentally relevant concentrations on toxicological parameters in different tissues (brain, muscle and liver) of Cyprinus carpio.
21204250	Diurnal physiological acclimation regulated by a circadian system is an advantage for plant fitness. The circadian system is composed of a signal input, the clock and output pathways. Understanding the regulation mechanism of the output pathways remains a major challenge. Diurnal proteomic change reflects the state of circadian organization. We found the content of glucose, fructose, sucrose and starch diurnally changed in leaves of rice seedlings grown under a 12-h light/12-h dark condition with constant temperature. Dynamic proteomics analysis revealed 140 protein spots with diurnally changed levels at six times of the light/dark cycle; 132 spots were identified by MS, and 119 spots were of a single protein each with functional annotation. These proteins are involved in regulation of carbohydrate flow, redox, protein folding, nitrogen and protein metabolism, energy conversion, photorespiration and photosynthesis. Of these proteins, 81.5% were upregulated during the light phase, overlappingly, 41.2% showed behavior of circadian anticipation to dawn. Pattern analysis showed that the diurnal regulation involved pathways of allocation of carbohydrates between temporary reserves and consumption, maintenance of redox homeostasis, diurnal protein reassembly and nitrogen assimilation. These pathways reflect biochemical phenotypes of the circadian change linking the oscillator and circadian outputs.
21204868	The fermentability of rice bran (RB), alone or in combination with one of two probiotics, by canine faecal microbiota was evaluated in stirred, pH-controlled, anaerobic batch cultures. RB enhanced the levels of bacteria detected by probes Bif164 (bifidobacteria) and Lab158 (lactic acid bacteria); however, addition of the probiotics did not have a significant effect on the predominant microbial counts compared with RB alone. RB sustained levels of Bifidobacterium longum 05 throughout the fermentation; in contrast, Lactobacillus acidophilus 14 150B levels decreased significantly after 5-h fermentation. RB fermentation induced changes in the short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) profile. However, RB combined with probiotics did not alter the SCFA levels compared with RB alone. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis of samples obtained at 24 h showed a treatment effect with RB, which was not observed in the RB plus probiotic systems. Overall, the negative controls displayed lower species richness than the treatment systems and their banding profiles were distinct. This study illustrates the ability of a common ingredient found in pet food to modulate the canine faecal microbiota and highlights that RB may be an economical alternative to prebiotics for use in dog food.
21205032	A high accumulation of silicon (Si) is required for overcoming abiotic and biotic stresses, but the molecular mechanisms of Si uptake, especially in dicotyledonous species, is poorly understood. Herein, we report the identification of an influx transporter of Si in two Cucurbita moschata (pumpkin) cultivars greatly differing in Si accumulation, which are used for the rootstocks of bloom and bloomless Cucumis sativus (cucumber), respectively. Heterogeneous expression in both Xenopus oocytes and rice mutant defective in Si uptake showed that the influx transporter from the bloom pumpkin rootstock can transport Si, whereas that from the bloomless rootstock cannot. Analysis with site-directed mutagenesis showed that, among the two amino acid residues differing between the two types of rootstocks, only changing a proline to a leucine at position 242 results in the loss of Si transport activity. Furthermore, all pumpkin cultivars for bloomless rootstocks tested have this mutation. The transporter is localized in all cells of the roots, and investigation of the subcellular localization with different approaches consistently showed that the influx Si transporter from the bloom pumpkin rootstock was localized at the plasma membrane, whereas the one from the bloomless rootstock was localized at the endoplasmic reticulum. Taken together, our results indicate that the difference in Si uptake between two pumpkin cultivars is probably the result of allelic variation in one amino acid residue of the Si influx transporter, which affects the subcellular localization and subsequent transport of Si from the external solution to the root cells.
21205035	During senescence of detached rice leaves, tryptophan (Trp) and Trp-derived secondary metabolites such as serotonin and 4-coumaroylserotonin accumulated in concert with methanol (MeOH) production. This senescence-induced MeOH induction was closely associated with levels of pectin methylesterase (PME)1 mRNA and PME enzyme activity. Exogenous challenge of detached rice leaves with 1% MeOH accelerated Trp and serotonin biosynthesis with induction of the corresponding genes. No other solvents, including ethanol, resulted in a Trp-inducing effect. This MeOH-induced Trp synthesis was positively regulated by abscisic acid but negatively regulated by cytokinin, suggesting hormonal involvement in the action of MeOH. Endogenous overproduction or suppression of MeOH either by PME1 overexpression or RNA interference (RNAi) gene silencing revealed that PME1 overexpressing lines produced twofold higher Trp levels with elevated Trp biosynthetic gene expression, whereas RNAi lines showed twofold reduction in Trp level in healthy control rice leaves, suggesting that MeOH acts as an endogenous elicitor to enhance Trp biosynthesis. Among many transcription factors induced following MeOH treatment, the WRKY family showed significant induction patterns, of which WRKY14 appeared to play a key regulatory role in MeOH-induced Trp and Trp-derived secondary metabolite biosynthesis.
21205177	Rad21 and its meiotic counterpart Rec8, the key components of the cohesin complex, are essential for sister chromatid cohesion and chromosome segregation in mitosis and meiosis, respectively. In contrast to yeast and vertebrates, which have only two RAD21/REC8 genes, the rice genome encodes four Rad21/Rec8 proteins. Here, we report on the cloning and characterization of OsRAD21-2 from rice (Oryza sativa L.). Phylogenetic analysis of the full-length amino acids showed that OsRad21-2 was grouped into the plant-specific Rad21 subfamily. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed OsRAD21-2 preferentially expressed in premeiotic flowers. Further RNA in situ hybridization analysis and promoter::β-glucuronidase staining indicated that OsRAD21-2 was mainly expressed in actively dividing tissues including premeiotic stamen, stem intercalary meristem, leaf meristem, and root pericycle. Ectopic expression of OsRAD21-2 in fission yeast resulted in cell growth delay and morphological abnormality. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that the OsRAD21-2-expressed cells were arrested in G2 phase. Our results suggest that OsRad21-2 functions in regulation of cell division and growth.
21205179	Rice is a model organism for studying the mechanism of cell wall biosynthesis and remolding in Gramineae. Mechanical strength is an important agronomy trait of rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants that affects crop lodging and grain yield. As a prominent physical property of cell walls, mechanical strength reflects upon the structure of different wall polymers and how they interact. Studies on the mechanisms that regulate the mechanical strength therefore consequently results in uncovering the genes functioning in cell wall biosynthesis and remodeling. Our group focuses on the study of isolation of brittle culm (bc) mutants and characterization of their corresponding genes. To date, several bc mutants have been reported. The identified genes have covered several pathways of cell wall biosynthesis, revealing many secrets of monocot cell wall biosynthesis. Here, we review the progress achieved in this research field and also highlight the perspectives in expectancy. All of those lend new insights into mechanisms of cell wall formation and are helpful for harnessing the waste rice straws for biofuel production.
21205183	Plant bZIP transcription factors play crucial roles in multiple biological processes. However, little is known about the sorghum bZIP gene family although the sorghum genome has been completely sequenced. In this study, we have carried out a genome-wide identification and characterization of this gene family in sorghum. Our data show that the genome encodes at least 92 bZIP transcription factors. These bZIP genes have been expanded mainly by segmental duplication. Such an expansion mechanism has also been observed in rice, arabidopsis and many other plant organisms, suggesting a common expansion mode of this gene family in plants. Further investigation shows that most of the bZIP members have been present in the most recent common ancestor of sorghum and rice and the major expansion would occur before the sorghum-rice split era. Although these bZIP genes have been duplicated with a long history, they exhibited limited functional divergence as shown by nonsynonymous substitutions (Ka)/synonymous substitutions (Ks) analyses. Their retention was mainly due to the high percentages of expression divergence. Our data also showed that this gene family might play a role in multiple developmental stages and tissues and might be regarded as important regulators of various abiotic stresses and sugar signaling.
21205188	Biomass utilization is increasingly considered as a practical way for sustainable energy supply and long-term environment care around the world. In concerns with food security in China, starch or sugar-based bioethanol and edible-oil-derived biodiesel are harshly restricted for large scale production. However, conversion of lignocellulosic residues from food crops is a potential alternative. Because of its recalcitrance, current biomass process is unacceptably expensive, but genetic breeding of energy crops is a promising solution. To meet the need, energy crops are defined with a high yield for both food and biofuel purposes. In this review, main grasses (rice, wheat, maize, sorghum and miscanthus) are evaluated for high biomass production, the principles are discussed on modification of plant cell walls that lead to efficient biomass degradation and conversion, and the related biotechnologies are proposed in terms of energy crop selection.
21205614	Cellulose from plant biomass is the largest renewable energy resource of carbon fixed from the atmosphere, which can be converted into fermentable sugars for production into ethanol. However, the cellulose present as lignocellulosic biomass is embedded in a hemicellulose and lignin matrix from which it needs to be extracted for efficient processing. Here, we show that expression of an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) transcription factor, SHINE (SHN), in rice (Oryza sativa), a model for the grasses, causes a 34% increase in cellulose and a 45% reduction in lignin content. The rice AtSHN lines also exhibit an altered lignin composition correlated with improved digestibility, with no compromise in plant strength and performance. Using a detailed systems-level analysis of global gene expression in rice, we reveal the SHN regulatory network coordinating down-regulation of lignin biosynthesis and up-regulation of cellulose and other cell wall biosynthesis pathway genes. The results thus support the development of nonfood crops and crop wastes with increased cellulose and low lignin with good agronomic performance that could improve the economic viability of lignocellulosic crop utilization for biofuels.
21205822	The YlqF/YawG families are important GTPases involved in ribosome biogenesis, cell proliferation, or cell growth, however, no plant homologs have yet to be characterized. Here we isolated rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis nuclear/nucleolar GTPase 2 (OsNug2 and AtNug2, respectively) that belong to the YawG subfamily and characterized them for pre-60S ribosomal subunit maturation. They showed typical intrinsic YlqF/YawG family GTPase activities in bacteria and yeasts with k(cat) values 0.12 ± 0.007 min(-1) (n = 6) and 0.087 ± 0.002 min(-1) (n = 4), respectively, and addition of 60S ribosomal subunits stimulated their activities in vitro. In addition, OsNug2 rescued the lethality of the yeast nug2 null mutant through recovery of 25S pre-rRNA processing. By yeast two-hybrid screening five clones, including a putative one of 60S ribosomal proteins, OsL10a, were isolated. Subcellular localization and pulldown assays resulted in that the N-terminal region of OsNug2 is sufficient for nucleolar/nuclear targeting and association with OsL10a. OsNug2 is physically associated with pre-60S ribosomal complexes highly enriched in the 25S, 5.8S, and 5S rRNA, and its interaction was stimulated by exogenous GTP. Furthermore, the AtNug2 knockdown mutant constructed by the RNAi method showed defective growth on the medium containing cycloheximide. Expression pattern analysis revealed that the distribution of AtNug2 mainly in the meristematic region underlies its potential role in active plant growth. Finally, it is concluded that Nug2/Nog2p GTPase from mono- and didicotyledonous plants is linked to the pre-60S ribosome complex and actively processed 27S into 25S during the ribosomal large subunit maturation process, i.e. prior to export to the cytoplasm.
21206021	Bacterial blight (BB), a devastating disease caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), causes serious production losses of rice in Asian countries. Protein misfolding may interfere with the function of proteins in all living cells and must be prevented to avoid cellular disaster. All cells naturally contain molecular chaperones that assist the unfolded proteins in folding into the native structure. One of the well characterized chaperone complexes is GroEL-GroES. GroEL, which consists of two chambers, captures misfolded proteins and refolds them. GroES is a co-chaperonin protein that assists the GroEL protein as a lid that temporarily closes the chamber during the folding process. Xoo4289, the GroES gene from Xoo, was cloned and expressed for X-ray crystallographic study. The purified protein (XoGroES) was crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method and a crystal diffracted to 2.0 Å resolution. The crystal belonged to the hexagonal space group P6(1), with unit-cell parameters a=64.4, c=36.5 Å. The crystal contains a single molecule in the asymmetric unit, with a corresponding VM of 2.05 Å3 Da(-1) and a solvent content of 39.9%.
21206728	Previous studies on the activity of the rice Gα promoter using a β-Glucuronidase (GUS) reporter construct indicated that Gα expression was highest in developing organs and changed in a developmental stage-dependent manner. In this paper, GUS activity derived from the rice Gα promoter was analyzed in seeds and developing leaves. In seeds, GUS activity was detected in the aleurone layer, embryo, endosperm and scutellar epithelium. In developing leaves, the activity was detected in the mesophyll tissues, phloem and xylem of the leaf sheath and in the mesophyll tissue of the leaf blade. The activity in the aleurone layer and scutellar epithelium suggests that the Gα subunit may be involved in gibberellin signaling. The activity in the mesophyll tissues of the leaf blade suggests that the Gα subunit may be related to the intensity of disease resistance. The pattern of the activity in the developing leaf also indicates that the expression of Gα follows a developmental profile at the tissue level.
21207258	In vitro fertilization (IVF) systems using isolated male and female gametes have been utilized to dissect fertilization-induced events in angiosperms, such as egg activation, zygote development, and early embryogenesis, since the female gametophytes of plants are deeply embedded within ovaries. A rice IVF system was established to take advantage of the abundant resources stemming from rice research for investigations into the mechanisms of fertilization and early embryogenesis. Fusion of gametes can be performed using electrofusion and the fusion product, a zygote, forms a cell wall and an additional nucleolus. The zygote divides into an asymmetric two-celled embryo and develops into an early globular embryo, as in planta. The embryo further develops into irregularly shaped cell masses and fertile plants can be regenerated from the cell masses. This rice IVF system is a powerful tool for studying the molecular mechanisms involved in the early embryogenesis of angiosperms and for making new cultivars.
21207985	Alkyl hydroperoxides are found to be important intermediates in the combustion and oxidation processes of hydrocarbons. However, studies of ethyl hydroperoxide (CH(3)CH(2)OOH) are limited. In this work, kinetics and mechanisms for unimolecular decomposition of CH(3)CH(2)OOH have been investigated. The potential energy surface of decomposition reactions have first been predicted at the CCSD(T)/6-311+G(3df,2p)//B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level. The results show that the formation of CH(3)CH(2)O + OH via O-O direct bond dissociation is dominant, the branching ratio of which is over 99% in the whole temperature range from 300 to 1000 K, and its rate constant can be expressed as k1 = 9.26 × 10(52)T(-11.91)exp(-26879/T) s(-1) at 1 atm. The rate constants of the reaction CH(3)CH(2)OOH → CH(3)CH(2)O + OH at different temperatures and pressures have been calculated, which can help us to comprehend the reactions of CH(3)CH(2)OOH at experimental conditions.
21208460	Phalaenopsis orchids are popular floral crops, and development of new cultivars is economically important to floricultural industries worldwide. Analysis of orchid genes could facilitate orchid improvement. Bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) end sequences (BESs) can provide the first glimpses into the sequence composition of a novel genome and can yield molecular markers for use in genetic mapping and breeding. We used two BAC libraries (constructed using the BamHI and HindIII restriction enzymes) of Phalaenopsis equestris to generate pair-end sequences from 2,920 BAC clones (71.4% and 28.6% from the BamHI and HindIII libraries, respectively), at a success rate of 95.7%. A total of 5,535 BESs were generated, representing 4.5 Mb, or about 0.3% of the Phalaenopsis genome. The trimmed sequences ranged from 123 to 1,397 base pairs (bp) in size, with an average edited read length of 821 bp. When these BESs were subjected to sequence homology searches, it was found that 641 (11.6%) were predicted to represent protein-encoding regions, whereas 1,272 (23.0%) contained repetitive DNA. Most of the repetitive DNA sequences were gypsy- and copia-like retrotransposons (41.9% and 12.8%, respectively), whereas only 10.8% were DNA transposons. Further, 950 potential simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were discovered. Dinucleotides were the most abundant repeat motifs; AT/TA dimer repeats were the most frequent SSRs, representing 253 (26.6%) of all identified SSRs. Microsynteny analysis revealed that more BESs mapped to the whole-genome sequences of poplar than to those of grape or Arabidopsis, and even fewer mapped to the rice genome. This work will facilitate analysis of the Phalaenopsis genome, and will help clarify similarities and differences in genome composition between orchids and other plant species. Using BES analysis, we obtained an overview of the Phalaenopsis genome in terms of gene abundance, the presence of repetitive DNA and SSR markers, and the extent of microsynteny with other plant species. This work provides a basis for future physical mapping of the Phalaenopsis genome and advances our knowledge thereof.
21208751	The technological effects of rice bran fiber on pork salt-soluble meat proteins in a model system were investigated. Rice bran fiber at levels of 0% (control), 0.1%, 0.5%, 1%, and 2% was added at the same time as salt-soluble meat protein to maintain similar moisture levels in all samples. Samples with increasing amounts of added rice bran fiber had higher pH, yellowness, sarcoplasmic and total protein solubilities. The moisture content, myofibrillar protein solubility and water holding capacity were the highest in the treatments containing with 1% rice bran fiber. However, the lightness and redness, textural properties decreased with increasing rice bran fiber levels. SDS gel electrophoresis did not reveal any changes in proteins regardless different rice bran fiber levels. The apparent viscosity indicated that improvements in water holding capacity and decreased texture due to added rice bran fiber.
21208999	The rice Xa13 gene, whose promoter harbors a UPT (up-regulated by transcription activator-like [TAL] effector) box, UPT(PthXo1), plays a pivotal role in the race-specific pathogenicity caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) strain PXO99. PXO99 causes rice disease by inducing Xa13. It is unknown, however, whether the UPT(PthXo1) box is the only PXO99-responsive cis-regulating elements in the activation of Xa13 expression. We analyzed the expression of a series of end- and site-truncated and site-mutated Xa13 promoters in rice and the binding of PXO99 protein to the intact, partial, or site-mutated UPT(PthXo1) boxes. In the Xa13 promoter, UPT(PthXo1) box is the only Xoo-responsive cis-acting element that results in PXO99-induced Xa13 expression. The 5'-terminal second, third, and fourth nucleotides of the box are important for bacterial protein binding and gene activation; mutation of any one of these sites abolished PXO99-induced gene expression. Furthermore, the 3'-half of the UPT(PthXo1) box is also required for protein binding and gene activation. These findings will enhance our understanding of the molecular mechanism of the interaction of rice and Xoo via UPT boxes and TAL effectors.
21209026	The brittle culm (bc) mutants of Gramineae plants having brittle skeletal structures are valuable materials for studying secondary cell walls. In contrast to other recessive bc mutants, rice Bc6 is a semi-dominant bc mutant with easily breakable plant bodies. In this study, the Bc6 gene was cloned by positional cloning. Bc6 encodes a cellulose synthase catalytic subunit, OsCesA9, and has a missense mutation in its highly conserved region. In culms of the Bc6 mutant, the proportion of cellulose was reduced by 38%, while that of hemicellulose was increased by 34%. Introduction of the semi-dominant Bc6 mutant gene into wild-type rice significantly reduced the percentage of cellulose, causing brittle phenotypes. Transmission electron microscopy analysis revealed that Bc6 mutation reduced the cell wall thickness of sclerenchymal cells in culms. In rice expressing a reporter construct, BC6 promoter activity was detected in the culms, nodes, and flowers, and was localized primarily in xylem tissues. This expression pattern was highly similar to that of BC1, which encodes a COBRA-like protein involved in cellulose synthesis in secondary cell walls in rice. These results indicate that BC6 is a secondary cell wall-specific CesA that plays an important role in proper deposition of cellulose in the secondary cell walls.
21209101	The carotene cis-trans isomerase CRTISO is a constituent of the carotene desaturation pathway as evolved in cyanobacteria and prevailing in plants, in which a tetra-cis-lycopene species, termed prolycopene, is formed. CRTISO, an evolutionary descendant of the bacterial carotene desaturase CRTI, catalyzes the cis-to-trans isomerization reactions leading to all-trans-lycopene, the substrate for the subsequent lycopene cyclization to form all-trans-α/β-carotene. CRTISO and CRTI share a dinucleotide binding motif at the N terminus. Here we report that this site is occupied by FAD in CRTISO. The reduced form of this cofactor catalyzes a reaction not involving net redox changes. Results obtained with C(1)- and C(5)-deaza-FAD suggest mechanistic similarities with type II isopentenyl diphosphate: dimethylallyl diphosphate isomerase (IDI-2). CRTISO, together with lycopene cyclase CRTY and IDI-2, thus represents the third enzyme in isoprenoid metabolism belonging to the class of non-redox enzymes depending on reduced flavin for activity. The regional specificity and the kinetics of the isomerization reaction were investigated in vitro using purified enzyme and biphasic liposome-based systems carrying specific cis-configured lycopene species as substrates. The reaction proceeded from cis to trans, recognizing half-sides of the symmetrical prolycopene and was accompanied by one trans-to-cis isomerization step specific for the C(5)-C(6) double bond. Rice lycopene β-cyclase (OsLCY-b), when additionally introduced into the biphasic in vitro system used, was found to be stereospecific for all-trans-lycopene and allowed the CRTISO reaction to proceed toward completion by modifying the thermodynamics of the overall reaction.
21209789	Rice pollen and seed development are directly related to grain yield. To further improve rice yield, it is important for us to functionally annotate the genes controlling pollen/seed development and to use them for rice breeding. Here we first carried out a genome-wide expression analysis with an emphasis on genes being involved in rice pollen and seed development. Based on the transcript profiling, we have identified and functionally classified 82 highly expressed pollen-specific, 12 developing seed-specific and 19 germinating seed-specific genes. We then presented the utilization of the maize transposon Dissociation (Ds) insertion lines for functional genomics of rice pollen and seed development and as alternative germplasm resources for rice breeding. We have established a two-element Activator/Dissociation (Ac/Ds) gene trap tagging system and generated around 20,000 Ds insertion lines. We have subjected these lines for screens to obtain high and low yield Ds insertion lines. Some interesting lines have been obtained with higher yield or male sterility. Flanking Sequence Tags (FSTs) analyses showed that these Ds-tagged genes encoded various proteins including transcription factors, transport proteins, unknown functional proteins and so on. They exhibited diversified expression patterns. Our results suggested that rice could be improved not only by introducing foreign genes but also by knocking out its endogenous genes. This finding might provide a new way for rice breeder to further improve rice varieties.
21210840	N-acetylserotonin methyltransferase (ASMT), the last enzyme in the synthesis of melatonin, catalyzes N-acetylserotonin into melatonin. For the first time, we cloned ASMT from rice through the analysis of recombinant Escherichia coli harboring putative rice O-methyltransferase (OMT) cDNAs. In total, 18 full-length cDNAs, which show homology to wheat caffeic acid 3-O-methyltransferase, were expressed in E. coli and induced in the presence of N-acetylserotonin; we then analyzed the production of melatonin. Only recombinant E. coli line 15 showed melatonin synthesis; no other recombinant lines produced melatonin with the addition of N-acetylserotonin in E. coli culture. Line 15 clearly exhibited in vitro ASMT enzyme activity with 0.27 pkat/mg protein. ASMT enzyme activity was inhibited by various related compounds such as N-acetyltryptamine and N-acetyltyrosine. The open reading frame of ASMT consists of 364 amino acids possessing well-conserved motifs found in plant OMT such as S-adenosyl-L-methionine-binding and catalytic sites. Induction patterns of ASMT mRNA were well matched with the production of melatonin in rice leaves during senescence, as well as several stressors.
21212298	Developing a deep root system is an important strategy for avoiding drought stress in rice. Using the 'basket' method, the ratio of deep rooting (RDR; the proportion of total roots that elongated through the basket bottom) was calculated to evaluate deep rooting. A new major quantitative trait locus (QTL) controlling RDR was detected on chromosome 9 by using 117 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between the lowland cultivar IR64, with shallow rooting, and the upland cultivar Kinandang Patong (KP), with deep rooting. This QTL explained 66.6% of the total phenotypic variance in RDR in the RILs. A BC(2)F(3) line homozygous for the KP allele of the QTL had an RDR of 40.4%, compared with 2.6% for the homozygous IR64 allele. Fine mapping of this QTL was undertaken using eight BC(2)F(3) recombinant lines. The RDR QTL Dro1 (Deeper rooting 1) was mapped between the markers RM24393 and RM7424, which delimit a 608.4 kb interval in the reference cultivar Nipponbare. To clarify the influence of Dro1 in an upland field, the root distribution in different soil layers was quantified by means of core sampling. A line homozygous for the KP allele of Dro1 (Dro1-KP) and IR64 did not differ in root dry weight in the shallow soil layers (0-25 cm), but root dry weight of Dro1-KP in deep soil layers (25-50 cm) was significantly greater than that of IR64, suggesting that Dro1 plays a crucial role in increased deep rooting under upland field conditions.
21212931	Species belonging to the Festuca-Lolium complex are important forage and turf species and as such, have been studied intensively. However, their out-crossing nature and limited availability of molecular markers make genetic studies difficult. Here, we report on saturation of F. pratensis and L. multiflorum genetic maps using Diversity Array Technology (DArT) markers and the DArTFest array.The 530 and 149 DArT markers were placed on genetic maps of L. multiflorum and F. pratensis, respectively, with overlap of 20 markers, which mapped in both species. The markers were sequenced and comparative sequence analysis was performed between L. multiflorum, rice and Brachypodium. The utility of the DArTFest array was then tested on a Festulolium population FuRs0357 in an integrated analysis using the DArT marker map positions to study associations between markers and freezing tolerance. Ninety six markers were significantly associated with freezing tolerance and five of these markers were genetically mapped to chromosomes 2, 4 and 7. Three genomic loci associated with freezing tolerance in the FuRs0357 population co-localized with chromosome segments and QTLs previously identified to be associated with freezing tolerance. The present work clearly confirms the potential of the DArTFest array in genetic studies of the Festuca-Lolium complex. The annotated DArTFest array resources could accelerate further studies and improvement of desired traits in Festuca-Lolium species.
21212977	Gene flow from genetically modified (GM) crops to non-GM cultivars or weedy relatives may lead to the development of more aggressive weeds. We quantified the amount of gene flow from herbicide-tolerant GM rice (Protox GM, derived from the cultivar Dongjin) to three cultivars (Dongjin, Aranghyangchal and Hwaseong) and a weedy rice line. Gene flow frequency generally decreased with increasing distance from the pollen donor. At the shortest distance (0.5 m), we observed a maximum frequency (0.039%) of gene flow. We found that the cultivar Dongjin received the greatest amount of gene flow, with the second being weedy rice. Heterosis of F2 inbred progeny was also examined between Protox GM and weedy rice. We compared growth and reproduction between F2 progeny (homozygous or hemizygous for the Protox gene) and parental rice lines (GM and weedy rice). Here, transgene-homozygous F2 progeny was significantly taller and produced more seeds than the transgene-hemizygous F2 progeny and parental lines. Although the gene flow frequency was generally low, our results suggest that F2 progeny between GM and weedy relatives may exhibit heterosis.
21213008	Glyoxalase pathway, ubiquitously found in all organisms from prokaryotes to eukaryotes, consists of glyoxalase I (GLY I) and glyoxalase II (GLY II) enzymes, which detoxify a cytotoxic molecule, methylglyoxal (MG). Increase in MG has been correlated with various diseases in humans and different abiotic stresses in plants. We have previously shown that overproduction of GLY I and/or GLY II enzymes in transgenic plants provide tolerance towards salinity and heavy metal stresses. We have identified nineteen potential GLY I and four GLY II proteins in rice and twenty two GLY I and nine GLY II proteins in Arabidopsis. An analysis of complete set of genes coding for the glyoxalase proteins in these two genomes is presented, including classification and chromosomal distribution. Expression profiling of these genes has been performed in response to multiple abiotic stresses, in different tissues and during various stages of vegetative and reproductive development using publicly available databases (massively parallel signature sequencing and microarray). AtGLYI8, OsGLYI3, and OsGLYI10 expresses constitutively high in seeds while AtGLYI4, AtGLYI7, OsGLYI6, and OsGLYI11 are highly stress inducible. To complement this analyses, qRT-PCR is performed in two contrasting rice genotypes, i.e., IR64 and Pokkali where OsGLYI6 and OsGLYI11 are found to be highly stress inducible.
21214879	Cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1) is responsible for the primary assimilation of ammonia, and a role in nitrogen (N) remobilization is implicated from its vascular localization and enhanced expression during senescence. This paper tested the hypothesis that overexpression (OX) of GS1 in rice improves utilization N use efficiency (UtE = spikelet yield/shoot N content). Three GS1 OX lines were identified using activity assays and quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Physiological analysis of the OX lines, as well as azygous and wild-type (Wt) controls, was conducted with mature plants after growth under varying nitrate conditions (non-limiting N, limiting N, transfer from non-limiting N to limiting N at panicle emergence) and growth environments (growth chamber vs greenhouse). Overall, OX lines did not differ from azygous controls in vegetative yield or shoot N content. In two of the three growth trials (i.e. the growth chamber trials) harvest index, N harvest index (spikelet N content/shoot N content) and UtE were generally enhanced in the OX lines relative to their azygous controls. These characteristics were highly correlated with percent spikelets filled and spikelet number. Thus, N partitioning in rice during grain filling could be altered by GS1 OX, resulting in improved UtE. Unfortunately, GS OX did not result in more efficient use of N under limiting N than under non-limiting N, and is therefore unlikely to result in the use of less N under field conditions. Transformation effects significantly hindered the productivity of the OX lines, but backcrossing to the Wt should overcome this.
21215451	An analytical method with SPE or matrix solid-phase dispersion clean-up procedure on PSA followed by HPLC-DAD was established for determination of fuphenthiourea residues in rice, water and soil. At three concentration levels (0.05, 0.5 and 5 mg kg(-1)), recoveries were in the range of 61.2-82.7%, with a RSD less than 13%. The LOQ of this method was 0.005, 0.02 and 0.01 mg kg(-1) for the water, soil and rice samples, respectively. Fuphenthiourea was applied in supervised ﬁeld trials at GAP conditions during rice seeding. It was found that under field conditions, the dissipation half-lives of fuphenthiourea were 0.8 d in the water and 24.8 d in the soil. At harvest, no detectable residues (<LOD) were found in the various samples.
21215606	Using national data, we explored the relationship between dietary patterns and metabolic abnormalities to address how the traditional Korean diet, high in carbohydrate and low in animal fat with plenty of plant foods, has influenced metabolic abnormalities in the adult population. We examined cross-sectional associations between dietary patterns and the risk of metabolic abnormalities in 4,730 subjects aged 20 years or more using both health and dietary data from the 2005 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination survey. Three evident dietary patterns were derived by cluster analysis: 'Traditional' (50.3% of total population), 'Meat and Alcohol, (15.8%) and 'Korean Healthy' (33.9%). The 'Traditional' group was characterised by high consumptions of rice and kimchi, while the 'Korean healthy' group ate a modified Korean-style diet with various foods such as noodles, bread, eggs and milk, and the 'Meat and Alcohol' group had high consumptions of processed meat and alcohol. Compared with the 'Traditional' pattern, the 'Meat and Alcohol' pattern was associated with a 33% increased risk of having elevated blood glucose, a 21% increased risk of having elevated serum triglycerides and a 21% increased risk of having elevated blood pressure. However, the 'Traditional' pattern showed a 23% increased risk of having low high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol compared with the other two patterns by logistics analysis. Fifty percent of the Korean adult population continues to follow a traditional dietary pattern, having beneficial effects with respect to some metabolic abnormalities. However, the high prevalence of low HDL-cholesterol, attributable to a high-carbohydrate diet, should be considered.
21215616	To investigate the feasibility of using biochar to control organic pollutants in sediments, we extracted biochar from rice-straw combustion residues (RBC) and studied its adsorption ability and effect on seed germination ecotoxicity of pentachlorophenol (PCP). The results showed that the Freundlich and dual-mode models could describe all the sorption isotherm data well, and the log K(OC) values increased with increasing RBC content. With 50 mg kg(-1) PCP in the sediment, a significant seed growth inhibition (P<0.01) was observed. The addition of 2.0% RBC lowered the PCP concentration in the extraction liquid from 4.53 to 0.17 mg L(-1) and increased the germination rate and root length significantly. Furthermore, it was found that the addition of RBC had no toxic but stimulative effect on root elongation. Consequently, RBC could serve as a potential supersorbent for the remediation of organic pollution in situ.
21216027	Cadmium (Cd) is one of the most toxic heavy metals and inhibits physiological processes of plants. Magnesium (Mg) is known as one of the essential nutrients for plants. Mg deficiency in plants affects metabolic processes. Plants grown in the field may encounter several abiotic stresses, rather than a single stress. Thus, the relationship between Mg nutrition and Cd toxicity is of ecological importance. In this study, effects of Mg deficiency on antioxidant systems and Cd toxicity in rice seedlings were investigated. Mg deficiency significantly decreased Mg concentrations in shoot and roots of rice seedlings. However, fresh weight and dry weight of rice seedlings were not affected by Mg deficiency. The contents of ascorbate and glutathione (GSH), the ratio of GSH/oxidized glutathione, and the activities of superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and catalase in Mg-deficient leaves were higher than respective control leaves. Cd toxicity was judged by the decrease in biomass production, decrease in chlorophyll, and induction of oxidative stress. Based on these criteria, we demonstrated that Mg deficiency protected rice seedlings from Cd stress. Moreover, chlorophyll destruction by paraquat was higher in detached leaves from Mg-sufficient than Mg-deficient seedlings. Cd concentration was higher in Mg-deficient shoot and roots than their respective control shoot and roots, suggesting that the protective effect of Mg deficiency against Cd toxicity is not due to reduction of Cd uptake. Moreover, we observed that Cd-decreased Fe and Zn contents in Mg-deficient seedlings were more pronounced than that in Mg-sufficient seedlings. Of particular interest is the finding that the increase in OsIRT1, OsZIP1, and OsZIP3 transcripts caused by Cd in Mg-deficient roots was greater than that in control roots.
21216347	Herbicide contamination of aquatic ecosystems is a serious global environmental concern. Several herbicides enhance the intracellular formation of reactive oxygen species, and can lead to the damage of macromolecules and to a decrease of oxidant defenses in a wide range of non-target microorganisms including cyanobacteria. The effects of molinate (a thiocarbamate herbicide used for controlling grassy weeds in rice fields) on the activities of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione S-transferase were evaluated in Nostoc muscorum, a freshwater cyanobacterium with a significant spread in Portuguese rice fields. These were determined in N. muscorum cultures acutely (72h) exposed to concentrations ranging from 0.75 to 2mM of molinate. This study also analyzed the effects of molinate on: (1) the nonenzymatic antioxidant contents (reduced and oxidized glutathione, carotenoids, and proline), (2) the oxidative cell damage measured in terms of lipid peroxidation (MDA level) and electrolyte leakage (intactness of plasma membrane), and (3) the total fatty acid profile. The results showed that the activities of all antioxidant enzymes decreased dramatically with the rising concentration of molinate after 72h. Time-dependent and concentration-dependent increase in MDA and enhanced cell membrane leakage were indicative of lipid peroxidation, formation of free radicals and oxidative damage. Compared to control, 72-h herbicide exposure increased lipid peroxidation by 5.4%, 19% and 28% with 0.75, 1.5 and 2mM of molinate, respectively. Similarly, herbicide stress induced an increase in electrolyte leakage (5.8%, 29.5% and 30.2% above control, with 0.75, 1.5 and 2mM of molinate, respectively). The increased production of proline at higher molinate concentrations (the values rose above control by 45%, 95% and 156% with 0.75, 1.5 and 2mM, respectively) indicated the involvement of this osmoprotectant in a free radical scavenging mechanism. Moreover, a radical decline in both glutathione pool, carotenoids and saturated fatty acids were also observed. The results of the present study lead us to conclude that: (1) both enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidative defense system of N. muscorum are dramatically affected by molinate, (2) the herbicide induces peroxidation, (3) it contributes to an increase of the unsaturation level of cell membrane fatty acids. These evidences should be taken in account when using N. muscorum as an environmental indicator species in studies of herbicide biotransformation and biomarker response as well as in environmental monitoring programmes.
21216402	A GC-μECD and a GC×GC-μECD method were developed for the analysis of pesticides in sediments. For 1D-GC, instrumental LOD and LOQ were found in the range from 0.60 to 2.31μgL(-1) and 1.83 to 5.62μgL(-1), respectively. For GC×GC method development two sets of columns were tested (DB-5/DB-17ms, and HP-50+/DB-1ms), and the best results were obtained with the set of columns DB-5/DB-17ms. Instrumental LOD and LOQ were found in the range from 0.08 to 1.07μgL(-1) and 0.25 to 3.23μgL(-1), respectively. The LOD for the GC×GC was about 36% lower than those obtained for the 1D-GC. Concentrations of 21.18μgkg(-1) through 1D-GC method and 3.34μgkg(-1) for GC×GC for trifloxystrobin were found in a sediment sample which was collected close to an area of rice plantation.
2121647	In 1979, rice oil accidentally contaminated with a mixture of polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) was ingested by a large number of individuals in Taiwan. Placentas obtained from women four years after the exposure had occurred contained several PCB congeners known to be present in the rice oil as well as two toxic PCDF congeners: 2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran (2,3,4,7,8-PCDF) and 1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran (1,2,3,4,7,8-HCDF). Placentas from exposed women had markedly elevated activities of two cytochrome P1-450 dependent enzymes, arylhydrocarbon hydroxylase and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase. The average magnitude of enzyme induction was 100-fold, but much interindividual variation was evident. Binding properties of epidermal growth factor (EGF) to its receptor were not altered by PCB-PCDF exposure. However, EGF-stimulated autophosphorylation of the EGF receptor was decreased significantly in placentas from exposed women and this effect was strongly correlated with decreased birth weight. Species comparisons of effects on EGF receptor actions and cytochrome P-450 isoenzymes, coupled with data on tissue concentrations of PCDFs, suggest that humans are more sensitive than rats to some of the biochemical effects of PCDFs and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). The data are discussed in relation to key issues in the risk assessment of the toxic halogenated aromatics.
21216539	The results reported here showed that threshold concentrations of skatole and indole in rice-bran oil for Singaporean consumers were 0.028 μg/g and 0.051 μg/g, respectively, and that skatole and indole levels in subcutaneous fat of pigs can be affected by diet. In Experiment A, 31 female pigs were fed with diets based on plant products only (P) or plant plus animal by-products (AP), with added levels of garlic essential oil from zero to 2.15 g/kg feed. Concentrations of skatole and indole increased with increasing garlic concentration (P < 0.001). In Experiment B, P and AP diets were fed to 47 female pigs with different dietary lipid sources (fish oil, tallow, and a mix of linseed oil and soya oil). Skatole and indole concentrations were higher in backfat of pigs fed with the AP diet (P < 0.05), but were unaffected by the type of lipid.
21216747	The Rice TOGO Browser is an online public resource designed to facilitate integration and visualization of mapping data of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)/P1-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) clones, genes, restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)/simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers and phenotype data represented as quantitative trait loci (QTLs) onto the genome sequence, and to provide a platform for more efficient utilization of genome information from the point of view of applied genomics as well as functional genomics. Three search options, namely keyword search, region search and trait search, generate various types of data in a user-friendly interface with three distinct viewers, a chromosome viewer, an integrated map viewer and a sequence viewer, thereby providing the opportunity to view the position of genes and/or QTLs at the chromosomal level and to retrieve any sequence information in a user-defined genome region. Furthermore, the gene list, marker list and genome sequence in a specified region delineated by RFLP/SSR markers and any sequences designed as primers can be viewed and downloaded to support forward genetics approaches. An additional feature of this database is the graphical viewer for BLAST search to reveal information not only for regions with significant sequence similarity but also for regions adjacent to those with similarity but with no hits between sequences. An easy to use and intuitive user interface can help a wide range of users in retrieving integrated mapping information including agronomically important traits on the rice genome sequence. The database can be accessed at http://agri-trait.dna.affrc.go.jp/.
21217125	ATTED-II (http://atted.jp) is a gene coexpression database for a wide variety of experimental designs, such as prioritizations of genes for functional identification and analyses of the regulatory relationships among genes. Here, we report updates of ATTED-II focusing on two new features: condition-specific coexpression and homologous coexpression with rice. To analyze a broad range of biological phenomena, it is important to collect data under many diverse experimental conditions, but the meaning of coexpression can become ambiguous under these conditions. One approach to overcome this difficulty is to calculate the coexpression for each set of conditions with a clear biological meaning. With this viewpoint, we prepared five sets of experimental conditions (tissue, abiotic stress, biotic stress, hormones and light conditions), and users can evaluate the coexpression by employing comparative gene lists and switchable gene networks. We also developed an interactive visualization system, using the Cytoscape web system, to improve the network representation. As the second update, rice coexpression is now available. The previous version of ATTED-II was specifically developed for Arabidopsis, and thus coexpression analyses for other useful plants have been difficult. To solve this problem, we extended ATTED-II by including comparison tables between Arabidopsis and rice. This representation will make it possible to analyze the conservation of coexpression among flowering plants. With the ability to investigate condition-specific coexpression and species conservation, ATTED-II can help researchers to clarify the functional and regulatory networks of genes in a broad array of plant species.
21217798	The phyllosphere is one of the most common habitats for terrestrial bacteria. However, little is known about the populations of bacteria, including unculturable bacteria, that thrive on plant surfaces. Here, we developed a fluorescent nuclear staining technique to easily and rapidly observe and enumerate populations of total and living epiphytic bacteria, with particular emphasis on the concentration by centrifugation and fixation of the epiphytic bacteria. An investigation on the optimal conditions for centrifugation and fixation revealed that centrifugation at 20 400g for 2 min and fixation with 0.5% glutaraldehyde solution were the optimum conditions for observation of the bacteria. Using this technique, we assessed the populations of the total and living bacteria on the surface of rice plants. When epiphytic bacteria were recovered from rice seeds (Oryza sativa 'Koshihikari'), the number of total and living bacterial cells was 7.36 and 6.85 log₁₀·g⁻¹ (fresh mass) in the seed washing, respectively. In contrast, the numbers of total and living bacterial cells in the leaf sheath washings were 5.5-5.8 and 5.3-5.7 log₁₀·g⁻¹, respectively. Approximately 5%-30% of the total bacteria in the washing solution of rice plant were culturable. The usefulness of the enumeration method and the amount of bacteria on the plant surfaces are discussed.
21217807	Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping and stability analysis were carried out for 16 rice (Oryza sativa L.) quality traits across eight environments, by using a set of chromosome segment substitution lines with 'Asominori' as genetic background. The 16 quality traits include percentage of grain with chalkiness (PGWC), area of chalky endosperm (ACE), amylose content (AC), protein content (PC), peak viscosity, hot paste viscosity, cool paste viscosity, breakdown viscosity (BDV), setback viscosity (SBV), consistency viscosity, cooked-rice luster (LT), scent, tenderness (TD), viscosity, elasticity, and the integrated values of organleptic evaluation (IVOE). A total of 132 additive effect QTLs are detected for the 16 quality straits in the eight environments. Among these QTLs, 56 loci were detected repeatedly in at least three environments. Interestingly, several QTL clusters were observed for multiple quality traits. Especially, one QTL cluster near the G1149 marker on chromosome 8 includes nine QTLs: qPGWC-8, qACE-8, qAC-8, qPC-8a, qBDV-8a, qSBV-8b, qLT-8a, qTD-8a, and qIVOE-8a, which control PGWC, ACE, AC, PC, BDV, SBV, LT, TD, and IVOE, respectively. Moreover, this QTL cluster shows high stability and repeatability in all eight environments. In addition, one QTL cluster was located near the C2340 marker on chromosome 1 and another was detected near the XNpb67 marker on chromosome 2; each cluster contained five loci. Near the C563 marker on chromosome 3, one QTL cluster with four loci was found. Also, there were nine QTL clusters that each had two or three loci; however, their repeatability in different environments was relatively lower, and the genetic contribution rate was relatively smaller. Considering the correlations among all of the 16 quality traits with QTL cluster distributions, we can conclude that the stable and major QTL cluster on chromosome 8 is the main genetic basis for the effect of rice chalkiness, AC, PC, and rapid viscosity analyzer profile characteristics on the eating quality of cooked rice. Consequently, this QTL cluster is a novel gene resource for controlling rice high-quality traits and should be of great significance for research on formation mechanism and molecule improvement of rice quality.
21217848	From the toxicological point of view, in the last two years melamine and cyanuric acid have become matters of great interest. These substances, especially melamine, have been abused during food and feed adulteration by increasing the content of nitrogen compounds in these products. Melamine and cyanuric acid as individual substances do not pose any serious risk in terms of toxicology. From the point of view of toxicology, it is especially the complex of melamine with cyanuric acid that is important. This complex, also known as the melamine-cyanurate complex, is a cause of human and animal health problems. In this work we present two examples of the incidence of melamine and cyanuric acid in two feed products originating from China. They were rice and the pea concentrates intended for animal nutrition. Protein concentrates can be the main risk factor for food chain contamination with melamine and cyanuric acid, especially those of unknown origin. Feed with a high content of nitrogen compounds and low content of aminoacids can be regarded as particularly suspicious. A comparison of results for determining nitrogen compounds and amines can be used as proof of adulteration of protein feeds. These feeds must be subjected to further analysis to determine melamine and cyanuric acid.
21217881	Deoxynivalenol (DON) is one of several mycotoxins produced by certain Fusarium species that frequently infect corn, wheat, oats, barley, rice, and other grains in the field or during storage. The exposure risk to human is directly through foods of plant origin (cereal grains) or indirectly through foods of animal origin (kidney, liver, milk, eggs). It has been detected in buckwheat, popcorn, sorgum, triticale, and other food products including flour, bread, breakfast cereals, noodles, infant foods, pancakes, malt and beer. DON affects animal and human health causing acute temporary nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, headache, dizziness, and fever. This review briefly summarizes toxicities of this mycotoxin as well as effects on reproduction and their antagonistic and synergic actions.
21219509	Transposable elements (TEs) are mobile entities that densely populate most eukaryotic genomes and contribute to both their structural and functional dynamics. However, most TE-related sequences in both plant and animal genomes correspond to inactive, degenerated elements, due to the combined effect of silencing pathways and elimination through deletions. One of the major difficulties in fully characterizing the molecular basis of genetic diversity of a given species lies in establishing its genome-wide transpositional activity. Here, we provide an extensive survey of the transpositional landscape of a plant genome using a deep sequencing strategy. This was achieved through paired-end mapping of a fourfold coverage of the genome of rice mutant line derived from an in vitro callus culture using Illumina technology. Our study shows that at least 13 TE families are active in this genotype, causing 34 new insertions. This next-generation sequencing-based strategy provides new opportunities to quantify the impact of TEs on the genome dynamics of the species.
21219599	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression by mediating gene silencing at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels in higher plants. miRNAs and related target genes have been widely studied in model plants such as Arabidopsis and rice; however, the number of identified miRNAs in soybean (Glycine max) is limited, and global identification of the related miRNA targets has not been reported in previous research. In our study, a small RNA library and a degradome library were constructed from developing soybean seeds for deep sequencing. We identified 26 new miRNAs in soybean by bioinformatic analysis and further confirmed their expression by stem-loop RT-PCR. The miRNA star sequences of 38 known miRNAs and 8 new miRNAs were also discovered, providing additional evidence for the existence of miRNAs. Through degradome sequencing, 145 and 25 genes were identified as targets of annotated miRNAs and new miRNAs, respectively. GO analysis indicated that many of the identified miRNA targets may function in soybean seed development. Additionally, a soybean homolog of Arabidopsis suppressor of gene silencing 3 (AtSGS3) was detected as a target of the newly identified miRNA Soy_25, suggesting the presence of feedback control of miRNA biogenesis. We have identified large numbers of miRNAs and their related target genes through deep sequencing of a small RNA library and a degradome library. Our study provides more information about the regulatory network of miRNAs in soybean and advances our understanding of miRNA functions during seed development.
21219743	The insect growth regulator methoprene was evaluated for control of Liposcelis bostrychophila Badonnel, Liposcelis decolor (Pearman), Liposcelis entomophila (Enderlein), Liposcelis paeta Pearman (Psocoptera: Liposcelididae), and Lepinotus reticulatus Enderlein (Trogiidae) at application rates of 1, 5, and 10 ppm on maize, wheat, and rice. Methoprene did not completely suppress progeny production during the 40-day test period, but did cause a significant reduction in adult progeny in all psocid species at the application rates of 5 and 10 ppm. At 1 ppm, numbers of adults were reduced for all species on wheat and maize, but only for L. paeta on rice. Nevertheless, the numbers of nymphs present after 40 days generally were not reduced, relative to the controls. Methoprene applied at rates of 1 to 10 ppm to stored grain would not provide adequate control of psocids.
21220201	The production of ethanol by the new yeast Spathaspora arborariae using rice hull hydrolysate (RHH) as substrate, either alone or in co-cultures with Saccharomyces cerevisiae is presented. Cultivations were also carried out in synthetic medium to gather physiological information on these systems, especially concerning their ability to grow and produce ethanol in the presence of acetic acid, furfural, and hydroxymethylfurfural, which are toxic compounds usually present in lignocellulosic hydrolysates. S. arborariae was able to metabolize xilose and glucose present in the hydrolysate, with ethanol yields (Y(P/S)(et)) of 0.45. In co-cultures, ethanol yields peaked to 0.77 and 0.62 in the synthetic medium and in RHH, respectively. When the toxic compounds were added to the synthetic medium, their presence produced negative effects on biomass formation and ethanol productivity. This work shows good prospects for the use of the new yeast S. arborariae alone and in co-cultures with S. cerevisiae for ethanol production.
21220310	In monocots, many genes demonstrate a significant negative GC gradient, meaning that the GC content declines along the orientation of transcription. Such a gradient is not observed in the genes of the dicot plant Arabidopsis. In addition, a lack of homology is often observed when comparing the 5' end of the coding region of orthologous genes in rice and Arabidopsis. The reasons for these differences have been enigmatic. The presence of GC-rich sequences at the 5' end of genes may influence the conformation of chromatin, the expression level of genes, as well as the recombination rate. Here we show that Pack-Mutator-like transposable elements (Pack-MULEs) that carry gene fragments specifically acquire GC-rich fragments and preferentially insert into the 5' end of genes. The resulting Pack-MULEs form independent, GC-rich transcripts with a negative GC gradient. Alternatively, the Pack-MULEs evolve into additional exons at the 5' end of existing genes, thus altering the GC content in those regions. We demonstrate that Pack-MULEs modify the 5' end of genes and are at least partially responsible for the negative GC gradient of genes in grasses. Such a unique and global impact on gene composition and gene structure has not been observed for any other transposable elements.
21220549	Plant genomes have undergone multiple rounds of duplications that contributed massively to the growth of gene families. The structure of resulting families has been studied in depth for protein-coding genes. However, little is known about the impact of duplications on noncoding RNA (ncRNA) genes. Here we perform a systematic analysis of duplicated regions in the rice genome in search of such ncRNA repeats. We observe that, just like their protein counterparts, most ncRNA genes have undergone multiple duplications that left visible sequence conservation footprints. The extent of ncRNA gene duplication in plants is such that these sequence footprints can be exploited for the discovery of novel ncRNA gene families on a large scale. We developed an SVM model that is able to retrieve likely ncRNA candidates among the 100,000+ repeat families in the rice genome, with a reasonably low false-positive discovery rate. Among the nearly 4000 ncRNA families predicted by this means, only 90 correspond to putative snoRNA or miRNA families. About half of the remaining families are classified as structured RNAs. New candidate ncRNAs are particularly enriched in UTR and intronic regions. Interestingly, 89% of the putative ncRNA families do not produce a detectable signal when their sequences are compared to another grass genome such as maize. Our results show that a large fraction of rice ncRNA genes are present in multiple copies and are species-specific or of recent origin. Intragenome comparison is a unique and potent source for the computational annotation of this major class of ncRNA.
21220762	Barley (Hordeum vulgare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum) possess significant phytase activity in the mature grains. Maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa) possess little or virtually no preformed phytase activity in the mature grain and depend fully on de novo synthesis during germination. Here, it is demonstrated that wheat, barley, maize, and rice all possess purple acid phosphatase (PAP) genes that, expressed in Pichia pastoris, give fully functional phytases (PAPhys) with very similar enzyme kinetics. Preformed wheat PAPhy was localized to the protein crystalloid of the aleurone vacuole. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that PAPhys possess four conserved domains unique to the PAPhys. In barley and wheat, the PAPhy genes can be grouped as PAPhy_a or PAPhy_b isogenes (barley, HvPAPhy_a, HvPAPhy_b1, and HvPAPhy_b2; wheat, TaPAPhy_a1, TaPAPhy_a2, TaPAPhy_b1, and TaPAPhy_b2). In rice and maize, only the b type (OsPAPhy_b and ZmPAPhy_b, respectively) were identified. HvPAPhy_a and HvPAPhy_b1/b2 share 86% and TaPAPhya1/a2 and TaPAPhyb1/b2 share up to 90% (TaPAPhy_a2 and TaPAPhy_b2) identical amino acid sequences. despite of this, PAPhy_a and PAPhy_b isogenes are differentially expressed during grain development and germination. In wheat, it was demonstrated that a and b isogene expression is driven by different promoters (approximately 31% identity). TaPAPhy_a/b promoter reporter gene expression in transgenic grains and peptide mapping of TaPAPhy purified from wheat bran and germinating grains confirmed that the PAPhy_a isogene set present in wheat/barley but not in rice/maize is the origin of high phytase activity in mature grains.
21220781	The high affinity nitrate transport system (HATS) plays an important role in rice nitrogen acquisition because, even under flooded anaerobic cultivation when NH(4)(+) dominates, significant nitrification occurs on the root surface. In the rice genome, four NRT2 and two NAR2 genes encoding HATS components have been identified. One gene OsNRT2.3 was mRNA spliced into OsNRT2.3a and OsNRT2.3b and OsNAR2.1 interacts with OsNRT2.1/2.2 and OsNRT2.3a to provide nitrate uptake. Using promoter-GUS reporter plants and semi-quantitative RT-PCR analyses, it was observed that OsNAR2.1 was expressed mainly in the root epidermal cells, differently from the five OsNRT2 genes. OsNAR2.1, OsNRT2.1, OsNRT2.2, and OsNRT2.3a were up-regulated by nitrate and suppressed by NH(4)(+) and high root temperature (37 °C). Expression of all these genes was increased by light or external sugar supply. Root transcripts of OsNRT2.3b and OsNRT2.4 were much less abundant and not affected by temperature. Expression of OsNRT2.3b was insensitive to the form of N supply. Expression of OsNRT2.4 responded to changes in auxin supply unlike all the other NRT2 genes. A region from position -311 to -1, relative to the translation start site in the promoter region of OsNAR2.1, was found to contain the cis-element(s) necessary for the nitrate-, but not light- and sugar-dependent activation. However, it was difficult to define a conserved cis-element in the promoters of the nitrate-regulated OsNRT2/OsNAR2 genes. The results imply distinct physiological functions for each OsNRT2 transporter, and differential regulation pathways by N and C status.
21220784	Plants can assimilate inorganic nitrogen (N) sources to organic N such as amino acids. N is the most important of the mineral nutrients required by plants and its metabolism is tightly coordinated with carbon (C) metabolism in the fundamental processes that permit plant growth. Increased understanding of N regulation may provide important insights for plant growth and improvement of quality of crops and vegetables because N as well as C metabolism are fundamental components of plant life. Metabolomics is a global biochemical approach useful to study N metabolism because metabolites not only reflect the ultimate phenotypes (traits), but can mediate transcript levels as well as protein levels directly and/or indirectly under different N conditions. This review outlines analytical and bioinformatic techniques particularly used to perform metabolomics for studying N metabolism in higher plants. Examples are used to illustrate the application of metabolomic techniques to the model plants Arabidopsis and rice, as well as other crops and vegetables.
21221128	The events occurring at the onset of meiosis have not been fully elucidated. In the present study, OsAM1 was identified in rice (Oryza sativa L.) by map-based cloning. OsAM1, a homolog of Arabidopsis SWI1 and maize AM1, encodes a protein with a coiled-coil domain in its central region. In the Osam1 mutant, pollen mother cells are arrested at leptotene, showing that OsAM1 is required for the leptotene-zygotene transition. Immunocytological analysis revealed that OsAM1 exists as foci in early prophase I meiocytes. Very faint OsREC8 foci persisted in the Osam1 mutant, indicating that OsAM1 is not required for the initial meiotic recruitment of OsREC8. In the absence of OsAM1, many other critical meiotic components, including PAIR2, ZEP1 and OsMER3, could not be correctly installed onto chromosomes. In contrast, in pair2, Osmer3 and zep1 mutants, OsAM1 could be loaded normally, suggesting that OsAM1 plays a fundamental role in building the proper chromosome structure at the beginning of meiosis.
21221134	Emerging evidence suggests that E3 ligases play critical roles in diverse biological processes, including innate immune responses in plants. However, the mechanism of the E3 ligase involvement in plant innate immunity is unclear. We report that a rice gene, OsBBI1, encoding a RING finger protein with E3 ligase activity, mediates broad-spectrum disease resistance. The expression of OsBBI1 was induced by rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, as well as chemical inducers, benzothiadiazole and salicylic acid. Biochemical analysis revealed that OsBBI1 protein possesses E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro. Genetic analysis revealed that the loss of OsBBI1 function in a Tos17-insertion line increased susceptibility, while the overexpression of OsBBI1 in transgenic plants conferred enhanced resistance to multiple races of M. oryzae. This indicates that OsBBI1 modulates broad-spectrum resistance against the blast fungus. The OsBBI1-overexpressing plants showed higher levels of H(2)O(2) accumulation in cells and higher levels of phenolic compounds and cross-linking of proteins in cell walls at infection sites by M. oryzae compared with wild-type (WT) plants. The cell walls were thicker in the OsBBI1-overexpressing plants and thinner in the mutant plants than in the WT plants. Our results suggest that OsBBI1 modulates broad-spectrum resistance to blast fungus by modifying cell wall defence responses. The functional characterization of OsBBI1 provides insight into the E3 ligase-mediated innate immunity, and a practical tool for constructing broad-spectrum resistance against the most destructive disease in rice.
21221697	Artificial selection (domestication and breeding) leaves a strong footprint in plant genomes. Second generation high throughput DNA sequencing technologies make it possible to sequence the gene complement of a plant genome within 3 to 5 months, and the costs of doing so are declining very quickly. This makes it practical to identify genomic regions that have undergone very strong selection. Available reference sequences of important crops such as rice, maize, and sorghum will promote the wide use of re-sequencing strategies in these crops. Marker/trait associations, especially haplotype (or haplotype block) association analyses, will help the precise mapping of important genomic regions and location of favored alleles or haplotypes for breeding. This mini-review examines a genomics approach to defining yield traits in wheat.
21221698	Sulphur, an essential nutrient required for plant growth and development, is mainly taken up by the plants as inorganic sulphate from the soil and assimilated into the sulphur reductive pathway. The uptake and transport of sulphate in plants is carried out by transporters encoded by the sulphate transporter gene family. Plant sulphate transporters have been classified with respect to their protein sequences, kinetic properties and tissue-specific localization in Arabidopsis. Though sulphate transporter genes from few other plants have also been characterized, no detailed study with respect to the structure and expression of this family from rice has been carried out. Here, we present genome-wide identification, structural and expression analyses of the rice sulphate transporter gene family. Our analysis using microarray data and MPSS database suggests that 14 rice sulphate transporters are differentially expressed during growth and development in various tissues and during biotic and abiotic stresses. Our analysis also suggests differential accumulation of splice variants of OsSultr1;1 and OsSultr4;1 transcripts during these processes. Apart from known spliced variants, we report an unusual alternative splicing of OsSultr1;1 transcript related to sulphur supply in growth medium and during stress response. Taken together, our study suggests that differential expression and alternative splicing of members of the sulphate transporter family plays an important role in regulating cellular sulphur status required for growth and development and during stress conditions. These findings significantly advance our understanding of the posttranscriptional regulatory mechanisms operating to regulate sulphur demand by the plant.
21221925	Antagonistic fluorescent pseudomonads isolated from rice rhizospheric soil were characterized using biochemical, taxonomical and molecular tools. Production of cyclopropane fatty acid (CFA) was correlated with their antagonistic potential. Strains were grouped into 18 different genotypes on the basis of amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA) and repetitive (rep)-PCR based genotypic fingerprinting analyses. High phylogenetic resolution among antagonistic fluorescent pseudomonad strains was obtained based on the DNA gyrase B subunit (gyrB) and RNA polymerase sigma factor 70 (rpoD) gene sequence analyses. Combined gyrB and rpoD sequence analysis resulted in the accurate estimation of molecular phylogeny and provided a significant correlation between the genetic distances among strains. Present study demonstrated the genetic and functional relationship of fluorescent pseudomonads. The knowledge on genetic and functional potential of fluorescent pseudomonads associated with rice rhizosphere is useful to understand their ecological role and for their utilization in sustainable agriculture.
21223397	Binding protein (BiP) is the key chaperone involved in folding of secretory proteins such as seed storage proteins in the ER lumen. To obtain functional information about BiP1, a gene that is predominantly expressed during rice seed maturation, we generated several transgenic rice plants in which various levels of BiP1 protein accumulated in an endosperm-specific manner. Severe suppression (BiP1 KD) or significant over-expression (BiP1 OEmax) of BiP1 not only altered seed phenotype and the intracellular structure of endosperm cells, but also reduced seed storage protein content, starch accumulation and grain weight. Microarray and RT-PCR analyses indicated that expression of many chaperone and co-chaperone genes was induced in transgenic plants, with more prominent expression in the BiP1 KD line than in the BiP1 OEmax line. Transcriptional induction of most chaperones was observed in calli treated with dithiothreitol or tunicamycin, treatments that trigger ER stress, indicating that induction of the chaperone genes in transgenic rice was caused by an ER stress response. In transient assays using rice protoplasts, the ortholog (Os06g0622700) of the AtbZIP60 transcription factor was shown to be involved in activation of some chaperone genes. Slight increases in the BiP1 level compared with wild-type, accompanied by increased levels of calnexin and protein disulfide isomerase-like proteins, resulted in significant enhancement of seed storage protein content, without any change in intracellular structure or seed phenotype. Judicious modification of BiP1 levels in transgenic rice can provide suitable conditions for the production of secretory proteins by alleviating ER stress.
21223508	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been proven to play important roles at the post-transcriptional level in animals and plants. To investigate clustering patterns and specific sequence characteristics in the flanking regions of plant miRNA genes, we performed genome-wide analyses of Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor. Our results showed that miRNA pair distances were significantly higher than would have been expected to occur at random and that the number of miRNA gene pairs separated by very short distances of < 1 kb was higher than of protein-coding gene pairs. Analysis of the promoter architecture of different miRNA genes in plants revealed significant differences in the number and distribution of core promoters between intergenic miRNAs and intragenic miRNAs, and between highly conserved miRNAs and low conserved or nonconserved miRNAs. We applied two motif-finding algorithms to search for over-represented, statistically significant sequence motifs, and discovered six species-specific motifs across the four plant species studied. Moreover, we also identified, for the first time, several significantly over-represented motifs that were associated with conserved miRNAs, and these motifs may be useful for understanding the mechanism of origin of new plant miRNAs. The results presented provide a new insight into the transcriptional regulation and processing of plant miRNAs.
21224427	Potassium (K+) is a major nutrient for plant growth and development. Vacuolar K+ ion channels of the two-pore K+ (TPK) family play an important role in maintaining K+ homeostasis. Several TPK channels were previously shown to be expressed in the lytic vacuole (LV) tonoplast. Plants also contain smaller protein storage vacuoles (PSVs) that contain membrane transporters. However, the mechanisms that define how membrane proteins reach different vacuolar destinations are largely unknown. The Oryza sativa genome encodes two TPK isoforms (TPKa and TPKb) that have very similar sequences and are ubiquitously expressed. The electrophysiological properties of both TPKs were comparable, showing inward rectification and voltage independence. In spite of high levels of similarity in sequence and transport properties, the cellular localization of TPKa and TPKb channels was different, with TPKa localization predominantly at the large LV and TPKb primarily in smaller PSV-type compartments. Trafficking of TPKa was sensitive to brefeldin A, while that of TPKb was not. The use of TPKa:TPKb chimeras showed that C-terminal domains are crucial for the differential targeting of TPKa and TPKb. Site-directed mutagenesis of C-terminal residues that were different between TPKa and TPKb identified three amino acids that are important in determining ultimate vacuolar destination.
21224726	Using two lowland rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars we found that in both cases submerged-induced elongation early after germination depends on gibberellins (GAs). Submergence increases the content of the active GA 1 by enhancing the expression of GA biosynthesis genes, thus facilitating the seedlings to escape from the water and preventing asphyxiation. However, the two cultivars differ in their response to ethylene. The cultivar Senia (short), by contrast to cultivar Bomba (tall), does not elongate after ethylene application, and submerged-induced elongation is not negated by an inhibitor of ethylene perception. Also, while ethylene emanation in Senia is not altered by submergence, Bomba seedlings emanate more ethylene upon de-submergence, associated with enhanced expression of the ethylene biosynthesis gene OsACS5. The cultivar Senia thus allows the possibility of clarifying the role of ethylene and other factors as triggers of GA biosynthesis enhancement in rice seedlings under submergence.
21225107	To investigate serum concentrations and the prevalence of inadequate folate intake and also vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 intakes and to identify those foods that make a major contribution to intake levels of these nutrients. This was a cross-sectional, observational study of adolescents of both sexes aged 16 to 19 years from the town of Indaiatuba, SP, Brazil. Data collection was by non-consecutive 3-day dietary record. The samples' habitual diet was estimated by removing intraindividual variability, and the prevalence rates of inadequate intakes were calculated using the estimated average requirement as cutoff points. Biochemical assays for folate, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 were conducted in accordance with the methods accepted in the literature. The study sample comprised 99 adolescents, the majority of whom were female (58.6%), with a mean age of 17.6 [standard deviation, (SD) 0.9]. Mean serum concentrations for folate, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 were 9.2 (SD 3.4) ng/mL, 18.7 (SD 5.1) nmol/L and 397.5 (SD 188.4) pg/mL, respectively; and the prevalence rates of inadequate intake for these vitamins were 15.2, 10.2 and < 1%, respectively. The foods that made a major contribution to vitamin intakes were French bread, pasta and beans for folate; white rice, chicken and beef for vitamin B6; and lean beef, whole milk and fatty beef for vitamin B12. The prevalence rates of inadequate folate, vitamin B6 and vitamin B12 intakes were low, which is possibly the result of improved access to and availability of foods that are dietary sources of these vitamins. Beans, which are a part of the traditional Brazilian diet, remain one of the primary food items that contribute to folate intake, even after mandatory fortification with folic acid in Brazil.
21226959	Plant growth depends on synergistic interactions between internal and external signals, and yield potential of crops is a manifestation of how these complex factors interact, particularly at critical stages of development. As an initial step towards developing a systems-level understanding of the biological processes underlying the expression of overall agronomic potential in cereal crops, a high-resolution transcriptome analysis of rice was conducted throughout life cycle of rice grown under natural field conditions. A wide range of gene expression profiles based on 48 organs and tissues at various developmental stages identified 731 organ/tissue specific genes as well as 215 growth stage-specific expressed genes universally in leaf blade, leaf sheath, and root. Continuous transcriptome profiling of leaf from transplanting until harvesting further elucidated the growth-stage specificity of gene expression and uncovered two major drastic changes in the leaf transcriptional program. The first major change occurred before the panicle differentiation, accompanied by the expression of RFT1, a putative florigen gene in long day conditions, and the downregulation of the precursors of two microRNAs. This transcriptome change was also associated with physiological alterations including phosphate-homeostasis state as evident from the behavior of several key regulators such as miR399. The second major transcriptome change occurred just after flowering, and based on analysis of sterile mutant lines, we further revealed that the formation of strong sink, i.e., a developing grain, is not the major cause but is rather a promoter of this change. Our study provides not only the genetic basis for functional genomics in rice but also new insight into understanding the critical physiological processes involved in flowering and seed development, that could lead to novel strategies for optimizing crop productivity.
21227607	Japanese cedar (Cryptomeria japonica; CJ) pollinosis is a typical type I allergy induced by CJ pollen and one of the most common allergic diseases in Japan. New immunotherapies have been developed for treatment of CJ pollinosis. We focus here on new immunotherapies for CJ pollinosis including sublingual immunotherapy with crude extract of CJ antigen, oral immunotherapy with transgenic rice expressing CJ allergens, a peptide vaccine using T cell epitopes of CJ allergens, DNA vaccines encoding either the CJ allergen gene or T cell epitope gene, and adjuvant-conjugated vaccines using CJ allergen conjugated with adjuvants such as CpG oligodeoxynucleotide or pullulan.
21228465	We attempted to improve the bioavailability of green tea catechins by using food ingredients. The catechin bioavailability of a green tea extract administered to mice was significantly (p<0.05) increased by supplementing with steamed rice. This enhanced bioavailability was due to the increased concentration of plasma non-gallated catechins, especially epigallocatechin (EGC).
21228479	Rapid growth of the submerged shoots of deepwater rice is essential for survival during the rainy season. We investigated changes in the expression of vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase), H(+)-pyrophosphatase (V-PPase), and aquaporins under submerged conditions. The amounts of vacuolar proton pumps, which support the active transport of ions into the vacuoles, were maintained on a membrane protein basis in the developing vacuoles. Among the six isogenes of V-PPase, OsVHP1;3 was markedly enhanced by submersion. The gene expression of efficient water channels, OsTIP1;1, OsTIP2;2, OsPIP1;1, OsPIP2;1, and OsPIP2;2, was markedly enhanced by submersion. The increase in aquaporin expression might support quick elongation of internodes. The mRNA levels of OsNIP2;2 and OsNIP3;1, which transport silicic and boric acids respectively, clearly decreased. The present study indicates that internodes of deepwater rice upregulate vacuolar proton pumps and water channel aquaporins and downregulate aquaporins that allow permeation of the substrates that suppress internode growth.
21228498	Pre-germinated brown rice (PR) has been developed industrially in order to enhance the nutritional functions of its source material, brown rice (BR). The present study was aimed at clarifying the effect of PR on the type 2 diabetes mellitus. We employed Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rats as a model of type-2 diabetes mellitus. OLETF rats were fed on either PR or white rice (WR) from the age of 4 to 35 wk. Age-matched male Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats as a non-diabetic control were also fed on WR. The HbA(1c) level in OLETF rats was significantly higher than that in LETO rats. However, the level was lower in PR-fed OLETF rats than in WR-fed OLETF rats. The plasma concentrations of TNF-α and PAI-1 in OLETF rats were higher than those in LETO rats. However, both elevated levels were decreased by the PR-feeding, but not by the WR-feeding. On the other hand, the plasma adiponectin concentration in OLETF rats was lower than that in LETO rats. The decrease in adiponectin level of OLETF rats was ameliorated by PR-feeding. The size of adipocytes in PR-fed OLETF rats was smaller than that in WR-fed OLETF rats. In summary, intake of PR instead of WR ameliorates both insulin resistance and imbalance of the levels of plasma adipocytokines leading to diabetic complications.
21229632	since an association between prostate cancer and some foods or food groups like meat, milk and dairy products, tomato foods, and allium vegetables, has been suggested, we analyzed the possibility that some food items or some food groups could be related to prostate cancer in some other way and not only through their nutrients. The purpose of this study was to test some hypotheses about diet as risk factor for prostate cancer. this case-control study comprised 101 cases of prostate cancer and 202 hospital controls individually matched for age (± 2 years), hospital admission and place of residence. Dietary information of 150 food items was obtained by a quantitative history approach. multivariate logistic regression analysis indicated as risk factors for prostate cancer high intake of fruit, processed meat, fish (most frequently canned) and butter. High intake of chicken, potato and rice exhibited a protective effect. these results support the hypothesis that consumption of meat and fat play a role in the development of prostate cancer. The findings that consumption of processed meat only (not fresh) and fish increased the risk of prostate cancer, as well as the protective effect of chicken, potato and rice consumption should be corroborated by other investigators.
21229755	Air-drying is always accompanied by soil moisture loss. The different influences of air-drying on soil nitrification might due to the different nitrification responses to moisture changing of acid subtropical soils. So, after applying 0 and 150 mg x kg(-1) of ammonium bicarbonate, a 35-day incubation study was conducted to determine the nitrification potential of four acid subtropical soils under 5 soil moisture levels, namely 30% water-holding capacity (WHC), 45% WHC, 60% WHC, 75% WHC and 90% WHC. Four soils, designated QR, QU, SR and SU, derived from Quaternary red earth and Tertiary red sandstone, were collected from rice and upland field. The results indicated that the soil nitrification was significantly influenced by the moisture content (p < 0.01), and the nitrification sensitivities to soil moisture content varied with land-use types. For the treatments without ammonium input, the ranges of nitrification ratio were 11% and 8% in upland soils, QU and SU respectively, which were obviously lower than those in paddy soils (35% for QR, and 20% for SR). The ammonium input would increase the ranges of nitrification ratio which were 56%, 26%, 31%, and 26% for soil QR, QU, SR, and SU, respectively. And the ammonium input would accelerate soil acidification under high moisture levels. In a word, the land-use type presents a significant influence on the nitrification response to moisture content, which might lead to the difference of air-drying effect.
21229762	High arsenic content in rice can influence the chlorophyll, water content and structure in their leaves, reduce the rate of photosynthesis and change their spectral features. Multiple models for diagnosing As contamination in rice based on spectral parameters were studied. Sixty samples belonging to mature rice in three different areas were scanned by ASD field pro3 for optical data. Arsenic reference values were obtained by atomic absorption spectrometry. First, correlation analysis was used between 9 hyperspectral indices and As content in rice, and three indices (PSNDa, fWBI, SIPI) were extracted to diagnose As contamination in rice, which were respectively sensitive to chlorophyll, water content and structure of leaves, then took the three indices to form a diagnosis spectral indices space (PSNDa-fWBI, PSNDa-SIPI, fWBI-SIPI) of As stress in rice. Second, principal component analysis and independent component analysis were also applied in these 9 hyperspectral indices, and two principal components (F1, F2) and two independent components(ICA1, ICA2) were extracted. These four components (F1, F2, ICA1, ICA2) were all correlated with As content in rice, and composed another two diagnosis spaces (F1-F2, ICA1-ICA2) for predicting As contamination. And these spaces composed a multiple diagnosis space model which diagnosed As contamination in rice of test area from different level, and showed a good result.
21229996	The chemical transformations of formamide (NH(2)CHO), a molecule of prebiotic interest as a precursor for biomolecules, are investigated using methods of electronic structure computations and Rice-Rampserger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory. Specifically, quantum chemical calculations applying the coupled-cluster theory CCSD(T), whose energies are extrapolated to the complete basis set limit (CBS), are carried out to construct the [CH(3)NO] potential energy surface. RRKM theory is then used to systematically examine decomposition channels leading to the formation of small molecules including CO, NH(3), H(2)O, HCN, HNC, H(2), HNCO, and HOCN. The energy barriers for the decarboxylation, dehydrogenation, and dehydration processes are found to be in the range of 73-78 kcal/mol. H(2) loss is predicted to be a one-step process although a two-step process is competitive. CO elimination is found to prefer a two-step pathway involving the carbene isomer NH(2)CHO (aminohydroxymethylene) as an intermediate. This CO-elimination channel is also favored over the one-step H(2) loss, in agreement with experiment. The H(2)O loss is a multistep process passing through a formimic acid conformer, which subsequently undergoes a rate-limiting dehydration. The dehydration appears to be particularly favored in the low-temperature regime. The new feature identifies aminohydroxymethylene as a transient but crucial intermediate in the decarboxylation of formamide.
21230269	We investigate experimentally a Casimir-like effect in a three-dimensional pile of rice, which has a power-law avalanche size distribution. We observe the change in distance between two Plexiglas sheets placed on the pile parallel to each other and parallel to the mean avalanche flow direction, while rice grains are continuously and uniformly falling on top of the pile. The resulting avalanches are fluctuations, confinement of which is found to drive the two plates together. During 25-h experimental runs, for initial intersheet distances ranging from 20.0 to 90.0 mm we observe changes in the range from 6.0 mm to less than 1.0 mm. A similar distance dependence is obtained from a simple analytical model.
21231077	The results of model calculations using exact diagonalization reveal the orbital character of states associated with different Raman loss peaks in Cu K-edge resonant inelastic x-ray scattering (RIXS) from La₂CuO₄. The model includes electronic orbitals necessary to highlight the nonlocal Zhang-Rice singlet, charge transfer, and d-d excitations, as well as states with apical oxygen 2p(z) character. The dispersion of these excitations is discussed with prospects for resonant final state wave-function mapping. A good agreement with experiments emphasizes the substantial multiorbital character of RIXS profiles in the energy transfer range 1-6 eV.
21232139	Inadequate and inappropriate complementary feeding are major factors contributing to excess morbidity and mortality in young children in low resource settings. Animal source foods in particular are cited as essential to achieve micronutrient requirements. The efficacy of the recommendation for regular meat consumption, however, has not been systematically evaluated. A cluster randomized efficacy trial was designed to test the hypothesis that 12 months of daily intake of beef added as a complementary food would result in greater linear growth velocity than a micronutrient fortified equi-caloric rice-soy cereal supplement. The study is being conducted in 4 sites of the Global Network for Women's and Children's Health Research located in Guatemala, Pakistan, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Zambia in communities with toddler stunting rates of at least 20%. Five clusters per country were randomized to each of the food arms, with 30 infants in each cluster. The daily meat or cereal supplement was delivered to the home by community coordinators, starting when the infants were 6 months of age and continuing through 18 months. All participating mothers received nutrition education messages to enhance complementary feeding practices delivered by study coordinators and through posters at the local health center. Outcome measures, obtained at 6, 9, 12, and 18 months by a separate assessment team, included anthropometry; dietary variety and diversity scores; biomarkers of iron, zinc and Vitamin B12 status (18 months); neurocognitive development (12 and 18 months); and incidence of infectious morbidity throughout the trial. The trial was supervised by a trial steering committee, and an independent data monitoring committee provided oversight for the safety and conduct of the trial. Findings from this trial will test the efficacy of daily intake of meat commencing at age 6 months and, if beneficial, will provide a strong rationale for global efforts to enhance local supplies of meat as a complementary food for young children. NCT01084109.
2123250	A study was conducted among mothers in a suburban community in Lagos to ascertain child feeding patterns during episodes of diarrhoea. Two hundred women with children of 6 to 36 months were selected randomly from 672 who were participating in a diarrhoea surveillance study. The vast majority restricted the consumption of yams and sugar (greater than 90%) and substantial numbers (40/50%) restricted bread and rice. On the other hand other carbohydrate foods were increased--plantain (73%) ogi-maize pap (53%) amala (56%). Of the protein foods the vast majority restricted beans (94%) and milk formula (69%) with 35% restricting meat but not fish. Few increased the intake of such foods. Beverages, fruit and vegetables were restricted by the majority; water intake was maintained. These dietary restrictions are apparently based on tradition but can have serious consequences.
21232645	To produce cellulolytic enzyme efficiently, Penicillium decumbens strain L-06 was used to prepare mutants with ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) and UV-irradiation. A mutant strain ML-017 is shown to have a higher cellulase activity than others. Box-Behnken's design (BBD) and response surface methodology (RSM) were adopted to optimize the conditions of cellulase (filter paper activity, FPA) production in strain ML-017 by solid-state fermentation (SSF) with rice bran as the substrate. And the result shows that the initial pH, moisture content and culture temperature all have significant effect on the production of cellulase. The optimized condition shall be initial pH 5.7, moisture content 72% and culture temperature 30°C. The maximum cellulase (FPA) production was obtained under the optimized condition, which is 5.76 IU g(-1), increased by 44.12% to its original strain. It corresponded well with the calculated results (5.15 IU g(-1)) by model prediction. The result shows that both BBD and RSM are the cellulase optimization methods with good prospects.
21232857	Rice straw burning is a common post-harvest practice on rice paddy land, and it leads to the accumulation of rice straw ash (RSA) in paddy soil. To understand the role of RSA in determining the mobility and bioavailability of metal contaminants, this study investigated the effects of RSA amendment on the solubility and distribution of Cu in contaminated rice paddy soils with flooding incubation. The addition of RSA to the soils suppressed the release of Cu into the soil solutions, which was primarily attributed to the metal-binding capacity of the RSA. Additionally, after the soils were flooded, the increase in soil pH and decrease in redox potential resulted in the transformation of Cu into less soluble forms. The RSA amendment appeared to enhance the changes in pH and redox potential of the flooded soils and, consequently, the immobilization of Cu in the soils. The results suggest that the RSA can retard the bioavailability and movement of the metal in contaminated soils and, thus, lower the potential environmental risk of Cu toxicity.
21234649	A novel cellulolytic bacterium was isolated from the forest soil of KNU University campus. Through 16S rRNA sequence matching and morphological observation it was identified as Nocardiopsis sp. KNU. This strain can utilize a broad range of cellulosic substrates including: carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC), avicel, xylan, cellobiose, filter paper and rice straw by producing a large amount of thermoalkalotolerant endoglucanase, exoglucanase, xylanase and glucoamylase. Optimal culture conditions (Dubos medium, 37°C, pH 6.5 and static condition) for the maximal production of the cellulolytic enzymes were determined. The activity of cellulolytic and hemicelluloytic enzymes produced by this strain was mainly present extracellularly and the enzyme production was dependent on the cellulosic substrates used for the growth. Effect of physicochemical conditions and metal additives on the cellulolytic enzymes production were systematically investigated. The cellulases produced by Nocardiopsis sp. KNU have an optimal temperature of 40°C and pH of 5.0. These cellulases also have high thermotolerance as evidenced by retaining 55-70% activity at 80°C and pH of 5.0 and alkalotolerance by retaining >55% of the activity at pH 10 and 40°C after 1 h. The efficiency of fermentative conversion of the hydrolyzed rice straw by Saccharomyces cerevisiae (KCTC-7296) resulted in 64% of theoretical ethanol yield.
21235168	Aerosol leads to 30% reduction in solar radiation reaching the earth's surface, and a similar reduction in crops yield for both wheat and rice. To determine the effect of aerosol wet deposition on crops, aerosol samples were collected in September, 2006 at Xi'an urban suburb (34 degrees 44'N, 109 degrees 49'E), and wheat seedlings were treated with aerosol of different concentrations in laboratory conditions. Changes in physiological and biochemical parameters of wheat seedlings were measured. In comparison with the control, the activities of superoxide dismudase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) and the concentration malondialdehyde (MDA) and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) of wheat seedlings increased progressively with increasing concentrations of added aerosol, while the opposite trend was seen for the activities of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), the concentrations of glutathione (GSH) and nitric oxide (NO), and the ratio of GSH/GSSG. When the seedlings were treated with the aerosol of 1 and 2 mg/L, the coleoptile elongation, shoot elongation and biomass accumulation were increased, the effect at treatment of 2 mg/L was most significant. However, aerosol treatments with rates of 3 and 4 mg/L resulted in a decrease in coleoptile elongation, shoot elongation and biomass accumulation in seedlings, and significant effect was for the treatment of 4 mg/L. Hence, lower concentrations of aerosol wet deposition were in favor of crops growth, but its higher concentrations could result in deleterious effects for crops and decreased crops growth.
21235169	Contamination of soil and agricultural products by heavy metals resulting from rapid industrial development has caused major concern. In this study, we investigated heavy metal (Cu, Zn, Pb, Cr, Hg and Cd) concentrations in rice and garden vegetables, as well as in cultivated soils, in a rural-industrial developed region in southern Jiangsu, China, and estimated the potential health risks of metals to the inhabitants via consumption of locally produced rice and garden vegetables. A questionnaire-based survey on dietary consumption rates of foodstuffs showed that rice and vegetables accounted for 64% of total foodstuffs consumed, and over 60% of rice and vegetables were grown in the local region. Average concentrations of Cr, Cu, Zn, Cd, Hg and Pb were 0.75, 2.64, 12.00, 0.014, 0.006 and 0.054 mg/kg dw (dry weight) in rice and were 0.67, 1.18, 4.34, 0.011, 0.002 and 0.058 mg/kg fw (fresh weight) in garden vegetables, respectively. These values were all below the maximum allowable concentration in food in China except for Cr in vegetables. Leafy vegetables had higher metal concentrations than solanaceae vegetables. Average daily intake of Cr, Cu, Zn, Cd, Hg and Pb through the consumption of rice and garden vegetables were 5.66, 16.90, 74.21, 0.10, 0.04 and 0.43 microg/(kg x day), respectively. Although Hazard Quotient values of individual metals were all lower than 1, when all six metal intakes via self-planted rice and garden vegetables were combined, the Hazard Index value was close to 1. Potential health risks from exposure to heavy metals in self-planted rice and garden vegetables need more attention.
21235196	Iodine-modified calcium-based rice husk ash sorbents (I2/CaO/RHA) were synthesized and characterized by X-ray diffraction, X-ray fluorescence, and N2 isotherm adsorption/desorption. Adsorption experiments of vapor-phase elemental mercury (Hg0) were performed in a laboratory-scale fixed-bed reactor. I2/CaO/RHA performances on Hg0 adsorption were compared with those of modified Ca-based fly ash sorbents (I2/CaO/FA) and modified fly ash sorbents (I2/FA). Effects of oxidant loading, supports, pore size distribution, iodine impregnation modes, and temperature were investigated as well to understand the mechanism in capturing Hg0. The modified sorbents exhibited reasonable efficiency for Hg0 removal under simulated flue gas. The surface area, pore size distribution, and iodine impregnation modes of the sorbents did not produce a strong effect on Hg0 capture efficiency, while fair correlation was observed between Hg0 uptake capacity and iodine concentration. Therefore, the content of I2 impregnated on the sorbents was identified as the most important factor influencing the capacity of these sorbents for Hg0 uptake. Increasing temperature in the range of 80-140 degrees C caused a rise in Hg0 removal. A reaction mechanism that may explain the experimental results was presumed based on the characterizations and adsorption study.
21235235	Two classes of unimolecular reactions of peroxy radicals are key to autoignition, namely, intramolecular H-atom shift (which promotes autoignition) and concerted HO(2) elimination (which inhibits autoignition). Olefin groups are prominent functional groups in biodiesel fuels. This paper explores the effects of the presence of an olefin group and its position on the kinetics of unimolecular reactions of peroxy radicals. CBS-QB3 calculations were carried out for 10 selected alkyl- and alkenylperoxy radicals. Transition-state theory was used to determine the temperature dependence of the high-pressure limiting rate constants, and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus/master equation simulations were performed to determine the pressure dependence of selected rate constants. Tunneling effects were computed using the asymmetric Eckart potential. The contribution of internal rotors to partition functions were included by using the hindered-rotor treatment.
21235796	Seed shattering, or shedding, is an important fitness trait for wild and weedy grasses. U.S. weedy rice (Oryza sativa) is a highly shattering weed, thought to have evolved from non-shattering cultivated ancestors. All U.S. weedy rice individuals examined to date contain a mutation in the sh4 locus associated with loss of shattering during rice domestication. Weedy individuals also share the shattering trait with wild rice, but not the ancestral shattering mutation at sh4; thus, how weedy rice reacquired the shattering phenotype is unknown. To establish the morphological basis of the parallel evolution of seed shattering in weedy rice and wild, we examined the abscission layer at the flower-pedicel junction in weedy individuals in comparison with wild and cultivated relatives. Consistent with previous work, shattering wild rice individuals possess clear, defined abscission layers at flowering, whereas non-shattering cultivated rice individuals do not. Shattering weedy rice from two separately evolved populations in the U.S. (SH and BHA) show patterns of abscission layer formation and degradation distinct from wild rice. Prior to flowering, the abscission layer has formed in all weedy individuals and by flowering it is already degrading. In contrast, wild O. rufipogon abscission layers have been shown not to degrade until after flowering has occurred. Seed shattering in weedy rice involves the formation and degradation of an abscission layer in the flower-pedicel junction, as in wild Oryza, but is a developmentally different process from shattering in wild rice. Weedy rice abscission layers appear to break down earlier than wild abscission layers. The timing of weedy abscission layer degradation suggests that unidentified regulatory genes may play a critical role in the reacquisition of shattering in weedy rice, and sheds light on the morphological basis of parallel evolution for shattering in weedy and wild rice.
21236535	Irrigation with arsenic contaminated groundwater in the Bengal Delta may lead to As accumulation in the soil and rice grain. The dynamics of As concentration and speciation in paddy fields during dry season (boro) rice cultivation were investigated at 4 sites in Bangladesh and West Bengal, India. Three sites which were irrigated with high As groundwater had elevated As concentrations in the soils, showing a significant gradient from the irrigation inlet across the field. Arsenic concentration and speciation in soil pore water varied temporally and spatially; higher As concentrations were associated with an increasing percentage of arsenite, indicating a reductive mobilization. Concentrations of As in rice grain varied by 2-7 fold within individual fields and were poorly related with the soil As concentration. A field site employing alternating flooded-dry irrigation produced the lowest range of grain As concentration, suggesting a lower soil As availability caused by periodic aerobic conditions.
21236574	Different samples of rice husk ash (RHA) and sodium silicate were prepared and characterized using FTIR, NFTIR and XRD. The selected sample of RHA was obtained by calcination of untreated rice husk (RH) in a semi-closed system at 650°C. Four novel polyinorganic coagulants were also prepared, namely, poly aluminum chloride silicate, poly hydroxy aluminum sulphate silicate, poly ferric chloride silicate and poly ferric aluminum chloride silicate. Applications were carried out for the removal of some pollutants from ground, sewage and industrial waste waters. It was found that the maximum percentages removal of Fe(2+) and Mn(2+) ions in ground water reached 99 and 97%, respectively, the maximum percentage removal of, Pb(2+) ion in industrial waste water reached 97%. In addition, the maximum percentages removal of COD, BOD and TSS in sewage waste water reached 90, 92, and 93%, respectively.
21236725	Innate immunity provides a first line of defense against pathogen attack and is activated rapidly following infection. Although it is now widely appreciated that host receptors of conserved microbial signatures play a key role in innate immunity in plants and animals, very little is known about the biological function of the microbially derived molecules recognized by such receptors. We have recently demonstrated that the rice XA21 receptor binds the AxY(S)22 peptide corresponding to the N-terminal region of Ax21, a type I-secreted protein that is highly conserved in all Xanthomonas species as well as in Xylella fastidiosa and the human pathogen, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia. We hypothesize that post-translational modification of Ax21 is carried out by the RaxP, RaxQ, and RaxST proteins and that perception and regulation of Ax21 is controlled by the RaxR/H and PhoP/Q 2-component regulatory systems. Ax21 is predicted to serve as an inducer of quorum sensing (QS), a process where bacteria communicate with one another. Because this is the first example of a conserved microbial signature that binds a host receptor and is also predicted to serve as an inducer of QS, this work has revealed fundamental new principles governing host-microbe interactions and has provided insight into the signaling dynamics of microbial communities.
21238760	Four different extraction and clean-up protocols based on the QuEChERS method were compared for the development of an optimized sample preparation procedure for the multiresidue analysis of 16 commonly applied herbicides in rice crops using LC-QqQ/MS. Additionally the methods were evaluated for the analysis of 26 insecticides and fungicides currently used in rice crops. The methods comprise, in general, the hydratation of the sample with water followed by the extraction with acetonitrile, phase separation with the addition of different salts and finally a clean-up step with various sorbents. Matrix effects were evaluated for the 4 studied methods using LC-QqQ/MS. Additionally LC-TOF/MS was used to compare the co-extractants obtained with the four assayed methodologies. Thirty-six pesticides presented good performance with recoveries in the range 70-120% and relative standard deviations below 20% using 7.5 g of milled polished rice and the buffered acetate QuEChERS method without clean-up at both fortification levels: 10 and 300 μg kg(-1). The other six pesticides presented low recovery rates, nevertheless all these analytes could be analyzed with at least one of the other three studied procedures.
21239643	Submergence and drought are major constraints to rice (Oryza sativa) production in rain-fed farmlands, both of which can occur sequentially during a single crop cycle. SUB1A, an ERF transcription factor found in limited rice accessions, dampens ethylene production and gibberellic acid responsiveness during submergence, economizing carbohydrate reserves and significantly prolonging endurance. Here, we evaluated the functional role of SUB1A in acclimation to dehydration. Comparative analysis of genotypes with and without SUB1A revealed that SUB1A enhanced recovery from drought at the vegetative stage through reduction of leaf water loss and lipid peroxidation and increased expression of genes associated with acclimation to dehydration. Overexpression of SUB1A augmented ABA responsiveness, thereby activating stress-inducible gene expression. Paradoxically, vegetative tissue undergoes dehydration upon desubmergence even though the soil contains sufficient water, indicating that leaf desiccation occurs in the natural progression of a flooding event. Desubmergence caused the upregulation of gene transcripts associated with acclimation to dehydration, with higher induction in SUB1A genotypes. SUB1A also restrained accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in aerial tissue during drought and desubmergence. Consistently, SUB1A increased the abundance of transcripts encoding ROS scavenging enzymes, resulting in enhanced tolerance to oxidative stress. Therefore, in addition to providing robust submergence tolerance, SUB1A improves survival of rapid dehydration following desubmergence and water deficit during drought.
21240707	The objectives of the present study were to investigate particulate matter (PM) and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) concentrations in ambient air during rice straw open burning and non-open burning periods. In the ambient air of a rice field, the mean PM concentration during and after an open burning event were 1828 and 102 μg m⁻³, respectively, which demonstrates that during a rice field open burning event, the PM concentration in the ambient air of rice field is over 17 times higher than that of the non-open burning period. During an open burning event, the mean total PAH and total toxic equivalence (BaP(eq)) concentrations in the ambient air of a rice field were 7206 ng m⁻³ and 10.3 ng m⁻³, respectively, whereas after the open burning event, they were 376 ng m⁻³ and 1.50 ng m⁻³, respectively. Open burning thus increases total PAH and total BaP(eq) concentrations by 19-fold and 6.8-fold, respectively. During a rice straw open burning event, in the ambient air of a rice field, the mean dry deposition fluxes of total PAHs and total BaP(eq) were 1222 μg m⁻² day⁻¹ and 4.80 μg m⁻² day⁻¹, respectively, which are approximately 60- and 3-fold higher than those during the non-open burning period, respectively. During the non-open burning period, particle-bound PAHs contributed 79.2-84.2% of total dry deposition fluxes (gas + particle) of total PAHs. However, an open burning event increases the contribution to total PAH dry deposition by particle-bound PAHs by up to 85.9-95.5%. The results show that due to the increased amount of PM in the ambient air resulting from rice straw open burning, particle-bound PAHs contributed more to dry deposition fluxes of total PAHs than they do during non-open burning periods. The results show that biomass (rice straw) open burning is an important PAH emission source that significantly increases both PM and PAH concentration levels and PAH dry deposition in ambient air.
21240828	Global interest in the adverse health effects of cadmium (Cd) has focused on dietary exposure as the principal source of Cd exposure to the general population. Common assumptions used in deterministic Cd assessment in global or regional diets have limitations when applied to specific national cases where local variation in food composition and consumption patterns are different than for global or regional norms. Stochastic dietary Cd exposure assessment was conducted for the general South Korean population to understand better Cd dietary intake. Because rice (Oryza sativa) is commonly and highly consumed by Koreans, it was the dominant contributor to Cd in the diet, representing on average 25% of the total dietary exposure for the general population. Hazard index (HI) values were below the level of concern for the 95th percentile of the general population. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that variation in rice intake and Cd concentration had the greatest influence on the Cd risk estimate for the general population. Changes in food sources, such as the use of imported rice with higher Cd levels, would lead to increased Cd exposure in the diet, thus necessitating continued vigilance as to the status of Cd within the food supply.
21240829	In this study ready-to-eat food samples were collected in the production line of the university restaurant of the University of Brasilia, Brazil, which serves non-vegetarian and vegetarian meals daily. Samples were analysed for the presence of ten organophosphorus insecticides (OPs) by GC/FPD, after extraction with ethyl acetate and anhydrous sodium sulfate (LOQ = 0.002 mg kg(-1)), and for dithiocarbamate fungicides, as CS(2), using the spectrophotometric method (LOQ = 0.05 mg kg(-1)). About 43% of the 175 samples analysed contained at least one OP compound at levels up to 1.83 mg kg(-1). Methamidophos was the compound most detected (37.7%), present in most of the soup, soybean and salad samples. No OP residues were found in fruit juice, beans and bran rice samples. The cumulative acute intake of OPs was estimated using methamidophos and acephate as index compounds (IC). The total cumulative intake represented 9.1% and 47.7% of the methamidophos ARfD for the non-vegetarian and vegetarian diets, respectively. When acephate was used as IC, the total intakes represented 20.7% and 116% of the ARfD for the non-vegetarian and vegetarian diets, respectively. Dithiocarbamates were detected in 70% of the 177 samples analysed, at levels up to 0.51 mg kg(-1) CS(2); all salad samples were positive and no residues were found in fruit juice. The chronic intake of dithiocarbamates represented 8.6 and 8.9% of the ADI (mancozeb) for the vegetarian and non vegetarian diets, respectively.
21241517	Rice black-streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV), a member of the genus Fijivirus within the family Reoviridae, can infect several graminaceous plant species including rice, maize and wheat, and is transmitted by planthoppers. Although several RBSDV proteins have been studied in detail, functions of the nonstructural protein P6 are still largely unknown. In the current study, we employed yeast two-hybrid assays, bimolecular fluorescence complementation and subcellular localization experiments to show that P6 can self-interact to form punctate, cytoplasmic viroplasm-like structures (VLS) when expressed alone in plant cells. The region from residues 395 to 659 is necessary for P6 self-interaction, whereas two polypeptides (residues 580-620 and 615-655) are involved in the subcellular localization of P6. Furthermore, P6 strongly interacts with the viroplasm-associated protein P9-1 and recruits P9-1 to localize in VLS. The P6 395-659 region is also important for the P6-P9-1 interaction, and deleting any region of P9-1 abolishes this heterologous interaction. RBSDV P6 protein has an intrinsic ability to self-interact and forms VLS without other RBSDV proteins or RNAs. P6 recruits P9-1 to VLS by direct protein-protein interaction. This is the first report on the functionality of RBSDV P6 protein. P6 may be involved in the process of viroplasm nucleation and virus morphogenesis.
21241535	To describe the association of socio-economic, demographic and lifestyle characteristics with three eating patterns identified among low-income adults living in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area, Brazil. Data were obtained in a population-based cross-sectional study. The analysed patterns were: (i) 'Mixed', in which diverse foods had similar factor loadings; (ii) 'Western', which included items with high energy density; and (iii) 'Traditional', which relied in rice and beans, traditional staple foods in Brazil. Hierarchical logistic analysis was performed to estimate the association between the independent variables and each one of the dietary patterns. The variables that presented statistical significance <0·20 in the univariate analysis (χ2 test) were included in the multivariate models. Duque de Caxias, a low-income area in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region, Brazil. Adults (n 1009) aged 20 to 65 years (339 men and 670 women). The 'Mixed' pattern was positively associated with smoking (OR = 1·58, 95 % CI 1·00, 2·48 for current smoking v. those who never smoked). The 'Western' pattern was positively associated with family income (OR = 3·00, 95 % CI 1·81, 4·97 for those with monthly per capita family income ≥1·0 v. <0·5 times the official Brazilian minimum wage) and inversely associated with family food insecurity (OR = 0·55, 95 % CI 0·36, 0·84). The 'Traditional' pattern was associated with family food insecurity (OR = 1·79, 95 % CI 1·27, 2·51). The results support previous findings relating improvement in economic conditions to reduced adherence to the traditional Brazilian food consumption pattern based on the combination of rice and beans.
21241786	Gene duplication contributes to the expansion of gene families and subsequent functional diversification. Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are members of an important calcium sensor family involved in abiotic and biotic stress signaling in plants. We report here the molecular evolution and expression analysis of a pair of duplicated CDPK genes CPK7 and CPK12 that arose in the common ancestor of grass species. With higher nonsynonymous/synonymous ratios (dN/dS, or ω), CPK12 genes appear to diverge more rapidly than CPK7s, suggesting relaxed selection constraints on CPK12s. Sliding window analysis revealed increased dN and ω values at N-terminal regions and the calcium-binding EF hand loops. Likelihood analyses using various models in PAML 4.0 showed purifying selection on both CPK7 and CPK12 lineages. In addition to the divergence in cis-element combinations on their promoters, functional divergence of CPK7 and CPK12 genes was also observed in wheat where TaCPK7 was found to respond to drought (PEG), salt (NaCl), cold, and hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) while TaCPK12 responded only to the treatment of ABA, a feature that may complement or expand TaCPK7-mediated stress signaling networks of wheat. The contrasting expression patterns of CPK7 and CPK12 genes under stress conditions were also observed in rice, suggesting conservative functional evolution of these genes. Since no positive selection was detected between the two lineages, the divergence of CPK7 and CPK12 genes should be ascribed to subfunctionalization, rather than neofunctionalization. Thus, our work demonstrates another case of evolutionary employment of duplicated genes via subfunctionalization for better adaptation.
21241815	Three key factors involved in successful plant disease development include the presence of a susceptible host, a virulent pathogen, and a disease-conducive environment. Our understanding of how environmental factors influence disease-conducive or disease-suppressive conditions, and how a pathogen advantageously capitalizes on them, is quite limited. Utilizing the model pathosystem Magnaporthe oryzae-Oryza sativa, we found a significant light-dependent disease suppression. Our genetic data suggest that the blue-light receptor MGWC-1 in M. oryzae is involved in light-dependent disease suppression during the dark-phase (disease-conducive light condition) immediately after pathogen-host contact. Sensing "darkness" is accomplished by MGWC-1, a blue-light receptor in M. oryzae. To explore the potential molecular mechanisms of light-dependent disease suppression we performed a genome-wide microarray experiment and identified several groups of gene families that are differentially regulated during the light-to-dark transition. Our genetic and molecular data provide insights into how a fungal pathogen utilizes ambient light signals for successful disease development.
21242165	Personal dosemeters can play an important role in epidemiological studies and in radiofrequency safety programmes. In this study, a Monte Carlo approach is used in conjunction with the finite difference time domain method to obtain distributions of the electric field strength close to a human body model in simulated realistic environments. The field is a proxy for the response of an ideal body-worn electric field dosemeter. A set of eight environments were modelled based on the statistics of Rayleigh, Rice and log-normal fading to simulate outdoor and indoor multipath exposures at 450, 900 and 2100 MHz. Results indicate that a dosemeter mounted randomly within 10-50 mm of the adult or child body model (torso region) will on average underestimate the spatially averaged value of the incident electric field strength by a factor of 0.52 to 0.74 over the frequencies of 450, 900 and 2100 MHz. The uncertainty in results, assessed at the 95 % confidence level (between the 2.5th and 97.5th percentiles) was largest at 2100 MHz and smallest at 450 MHz.
21242720	A broad range of peroxides generated in subcellular compartments, including chloroplasts, are detoxified with peroxidases which are called as peroxiredoxins (Prx). The Prx are ubiquitously distributed in all organisms including bacteria, fungi, animals, and also in cyanobacteria and plants. Recently, the Prx have emerged as new molecules in antioxidant defense in plants. Here, the members which belong to Prx gene family in Arabidopsis and rice are been identified. Overall, the Prx members constitute a small family with 10 and 11 genes in Arabidopsis and rice respectively. The prx genes of rice are assigned to their functional groups based on homology search against Arabidopsis protein database. Deciphering the Prx functions in rice will add novel information to the mechanism of antioxidant defense in plants. Further, the Prx also forms the part of redox signaling cascade. Here, the Prx family has been described for rice.
21243095	Emission from field burning of crop residue, a common practice in many parts of the world today, has potential effects on air quality, atmosphere and climate. This study provides a comprehensive size and compositional characterization of particulate matter (PM) emission from rice straw (RS) burning using both in situ experiments (11 spread field burning) and laboratory hood experiments (3 pile and 6 spread burning) that were conducted during 2003-2006 in Thailand. The carbon balance and emission ratio method was used to determine PM emission factors (EF) in the field experiments. The obtained EFs varied from field to hood experiments reflecting multiple factors affecting combustion and emission. In the hood experiments, EFs were found to be depending on the burning types (spread or pile), moisture content and the combustion efficiency. In addition, in the field experiments, burning rate and EF were also influenced by weather conditions, i.e. wind. Hood pile burning produced significantly higher EF (20±8 g kg(-1) RS) than hood spread burning (4.7±2.2 g kg(-1) RS). The majority of PM emitted from the field burning was PM(2.5) with EF of 5.1±0.7 g m(-2) or 8.3±2.7 g kg(-1) RS burned. The coarse PM fraction (PM(10-2.5)) was mainly generated by fire attention activities and was relatively small, hence the resulting EF of PM(10) (9.4±3.5 g kg(-1) RS) was not significantly higher than PM(2.5). PM size distribution was measured across 8 size ranges (from <0.4 μm to >9.0 μm). The largest fractions of PM, EC and OC were associated with PM(1.1). The most significant components in PM(2.5) and PM(10) include OC, water soluble ions and levoglucosan. Relative abundance of some methoxyphenols (e.g., acetylsyringone), PAHs (e.g., fluoranthene and pyrene), organochlorine pesticides and PCBs may also serve as additional signatures for the PM emission. Presence of these toxic compounds in PM of burning smoke increases the potential toxic effects of the emission. For illustration, an estimation of the annual RS field burning in Thailand was made using the obtained in situ field burning EFs and preliminary burning activity data.
21243513	Low phytic acid grains can provide a solution to dietary micronutrient deficiency and environmental pollution. A low phytic acid 1-1 (lpa1-1) barley mutant was identified using forward genetics and the mutant gene was mapped to chromosome 2HL. Comparative genomic analysis revealed that the lpa1-1 gene was located in the syntenic region of the rice Os-lpa-MH86-1 gene on chromosome 4. The gene ortholog of rice Os-lpa-MH86-1 (designated as HvST) was isolated from barley using polymerase chain reaction and mapped to chromosome 2HL in a doubled haploid population of Clipper×Sahara. The results demonstrate the collinearity between the rice Os-lpa-MH86-1 gene and the barley lpa1-1 region. Sequence analysis of HvST revealed a single base pair substitution (C→T transition) in the last exon of the gene in lpa1-1 (M422), which resulted in a nonsense mutation. These results will facilitate our understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling the low phytic acid phenotype and assist in the development of a diagnostic marker for the selection of the lpa1-1 gene in barley.
21243930	The prevalence of atopic dermatitis (AD), a chronic skin disease, has increased substantially in recent decades, and different factors have been implicated in its etiology. Although dietary habits are being investigated, few conclusive findings have been reported. Nevertheless, increased consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) and a diet poor in antioxidants have been related to AD. The objectives of this study were to investigate the association between AD, the intake of different foods, and the effect of a Mediterranean diet among Spanish schoolchildren aged 6 to 7. We performed a cross-sectional study with 20 106 schoolchildren aged 6-7 years from 10 different areas of Spain. The participation rate was 76.50%. The prevalence of AD was assessed using the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood questionnaire and the criteria of the Spanish Academy of Dermatology. To calculate the Mediterranean diet score, we classified food into 2 groups: Mediterranean food, including fruit, seafood, vegetables, pulses, cereals, pasta, rice, and potatoes; and non-Mediterranean food, including meat, milk, and fast food. Milk was negatively associated with AD. Butter and nuts also were negatively associated, although statistical significance was only reached when these foods were consumed 3 or more times a week. We found no association between the Mediterranean diet score and AD and a positive association between AD and obesity.
21244431	• The variation in tolerance to low oxygen is likely explained by divergent sets of molecular and metabolic responses between species. • We analysed the versatility of the response to low oxygen of primary metabolism by comparing nine previously published metabolome profiling studies. Data were juxtaposed with expression profiles of genes encoding enzymes involved in the metabolic pathways of rice, Arabidopsis and poplar. Furthermore, full transcript profiles were compared to determine commonalities in the expression of orthologous genes and genes that serve similar functions. • Activation of fermentation and the accumulation of alanine plus succinate were observed in all species, but transcriptional regulation of these metabolic pathways varied. Global analysis of orthologue expression revealed that most differentially expressed genes either had no orthologues or were not affected in the other species. Expression analysis of nearly all gene clusters with common functions varied significantly between species. • The resemblance of the metabolic response to hypoxia indicates that this occurs independent of the level of tolerance. However, regulation of these processes at transcriptional level varied between species. An important role is suggested for signalling and post-transcriptional regulation to be involved in the mechanisms that lead to tolerance to hypoxia.
21245004	Vulnerable plaques are the major cause of carotid and coronary vascular problems, such as heart attack or stroke. A correct modeling of plaque echomorphology and composition can help the identification of such lesions. The Rayleigh distribution is widely used to describe (nearly) homogeneous areas in ultrasound images. Since plaques may contain tissues with heterogeneous regions, more complex distributions depending on multiple parameters are usually needed, such as Rice, K or Nakagami distributions. In such cases, the problem formulation becomes more complex, and the optimization procedure to estimate the plaque echomorphology is more difficult. Here, we propose to model the tissue echomorphology by means of a mixture of Rayleigh distributions, known as the Rayleigh mixture model (RMM). The problem formulation is still simple, but its ability to describe complex textural patterns is very powerful. In this paper, we present a method for the automatic estimation of the RMM mixture parameters by means of the expectation maximization algorithm, which aims at characterizing tissue echomorphology in ultrasound (US). The performance of the proposed model is evaluated with a database of in vitro intravascular US cases. We show that the mixture coefficients and Rayleigh parameters explicitly derived from the mixture model are able to accurately describe different plaque types and to significantly improve the characterization performance of an already existing methodology.
2124536	By using rice medium microcolumn method, aflatoxin-producing ability medium dish method (APA method), A and M medium thin-layer chromato scanner method (AM method), seventy-six strains of Aspergillus flavus from the foodstuffs in Zhejiang province were screened for aflatoxin-producing strains, and which were confirmed with thin-layer chromatography method. Using the above three methods, aflatoxin-producing strains rates were detected respectively in 11.8%, 9.2% and 18.4%. Twenty aflatoxigenic strains were determined positive by all three methods (26.3%). All three methods showed false negatives. The AM method and APA method both showed false positives. The causes of false negatives and positives were discussed and the accord-rate of AM method with other methods was the highest as compared with that of microcolumn or APA method. False negative rate was the highest with APA method and next in order was that of microcolumn method. False positives appeared in both APA method and AM method. The causes of false negative and positive were discussed. It was suggested that AM method be safe, simple, and reliable method screening for aflatoxigenic strains be it improved in some aspects.
21246007	The typical Korean diet includes rice, which is usually served in a rice bowl. We investigated the effects of a meal plan using rice bowls of varying sizes on dietary energy intake (EI), body weight (BW), and blood glucose levels. Forty-two obese women with type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomly assigned to use either a 200 mL small rice bowl (SB), a 380 mL regular rice bowl (RB), or to a control group (C). Both intervention groups were asked to reduce their EI by 500 kcal/day for 12 weeks and simple instructions for using the assigned bowl were provided. Dietary EI and proportion of macronutrients (PMN) were estimated from 3-day dietary records. Reduction of EI was more prominent in the SB group compared to the RB and C group, although EI decreased significantly from baseline in all groups. Carbohydrate and fat intakes of the SB group were decreased greater than those of the RB and C group. However, changes in PMN were not significant across the 3 groups. Reduction of BW and HbA1c levels in the SB group was more prominent compared to the C group. Although, BW and HbA1c were decreased significantly from baseline in both bowl groups. There was no statistical difference between the two groups. The small rice bowl-based meal plan was effective at reducing EI, BW, and blood glucose levels, and the observed reductions in EI, carbohydrate, and fat intake were greater than those of the regular rice bowl-based meal plan.
21246257	The accumulation of toxic compounds generated by the interaction between reactive oxygen species and polyunsaturated fatty acids of membrane lipids can significantly damage plant cells. A plethora of enzymes act on these reactive carbonyls, reducing their toxicity. Based on the chromosomal localization and on their homology with other stress-induced aldo-keto reductases (AKRs) we have selected three rice AKR genes. The transcription level of OsAKR1 was greatly induced by abscisic acid and various stress treatments; the other two AKR genes tested were moderately stress-inducible. The OsAKR1 recombinant protein exhibited a high nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent catalytic activity to reduce toxic aldehydes including glycolysis-derived methylglyoxal (MG) and lipid peroxidation-originated malondialdehyde (MDA). The function of this enzyme in MG detoxification was demonstrated in vivo in E. coli and in transgenic plants overproducing the OsAKR1 protein. Heterologous synthesis of the OsAKR1 enzyme in transgenic tobacco plants resulted in increased tolerance against oxidative stress generated by methylviologen (MV) and improved resistance to high temperature. In these plants lower levels of MDA were detected both following MV and heat treatment due to the activity of the OsAKR1 enzyme. The transgenic tobaccos also exhibited higher AKR activity and accumulated less MG in their leaves than the wild type plants; both in the presence and absence of heat stress. These results support the positive role of OsAKR1 in abiotic stress-related reactive aldehyde detoxification pathways and its use for improvement of stress tolerance in plants.
21246733	Quantitation is an inherent requirement in comparative proteomics and there is no exception to this for plant proteomics. Quantitative proteomics has high demands on the experimental workflow, requiring a thorough design and often a complex multi-step structure. It has to include sufficient numbers of biological and technical replicates and methods that are able to facilitate a quantitative signal read-out. Quantitative plant proteomics in particular poses many additional challenges but because of the nature of plants it also offers some potential advantages. In general, analysis of plants has been less prominent in proteomics. Low protein concentration, difficulties in protein extraction, genome multiploidy, high Rubisco abundance in green tissue, and an absence of well-annotated and completed genome sequences are some of the main challenges in plant proteomics. However, the latter is now changing with several genomes emerging for model plants and crops such as potato, tomato, soybean, rice, maize and barley. This review discusses the current status in quantitative plant proteomics (MS-based and non-MS-based) and its challenges and potentials. Both relative and absolute quantitation methods in plant proteomics from DIGE to MS-based analysis after isotope labeling and label-free quantitation are described and illustrated by published studies. In particular, we describe plant-specific quantitative methods such as metabolic labeling methods that can take full advantage of plant metabolism and culture practices, and discuss other potential advantages and challenges that may arise from the unique properties of plants.
21247103	Rice consumption is a major source of arsenic for Asian populations. Arsenic is present in rice grain both as inorganic arsenic and as dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). It is unclear whether DMA in rice is taken up from the soil or synthesized in planta. We investigated the effect of DMA, methylarsonic acid (MMA) and arsenite amendment on arsenic speciation in rice grain grown in soil and in solution culture. We also investigated the methylation of arsenic in solution culture under suppression of bacterial activity. When rice was grown under flooded conditions after the heading stage, DMA amendment to the soil resulted in higher DMA concentration in brown rice and rice straw. In the solution culture, not only DMA amendment but also MMA or arsenite amendment increased the DMA concentration in brown rice and rice straw. DMA was detected in the solution amended by MMA or arsenite with young rice plants. When the solution included the antibacterial agent chloramphenicol, DMA concentration in the solution decreased dramatically. When only the soil was incubated with MMA or arsenite, only a slight amount of DMA was detected in the soil. These results suggest that rice rhizosphere associated bacteria would be involved in the formation of DMA in brown rice.
21247492	Rice blast is the most threatening disease to cultivated rice. Magnaporthe oryzae, its causal agent, is likely to encounter environmental challenges during invasive growth in its host plants that require shifts in gene expression to establish a compatible interaction. Here, we tested the hypothesis that gene expression patterns during in planta invasive growth are similar to in vitro stress conditions, such as nutrient limitation, temperature up shift and oxidative stress, and determined which condition most closely mimicked that of in planta invasive growth. Gene expression data were collected from these in vitro experiments and compared to fungal gene expression during the invasive growth phase at 72 hours post-inoculation in compatible interactions on two grass hosts, rice and barley. We identified 4,973 genes that were differentially expressed in at least one of the in planta and in vitro stress conditions when compared to fungal mycelia grown in complete medium, which was used as reference. From those genes, 1,909 showed similar expression patterns between at least one of the in vitro stresses and rice and/or barley. Hierarchical clustering of these 1,909 genes showed three major clusters in which in planta conditions closely grouped with the nutrient starvation conditions. Out of these 1,909 genes, 55 genes and 129 genes were induced and repressed in all treatments, respectively. Functional categorization of the 55 induced genes revealed that most were either related to carbon metabolism, membrane proteins, or were involved in oxidoreduction reactions. The 129 repressed genes showed putative roles in vesicle trafficking, signal transduction, nitrogen metabolism, or molecular transport. These findings suggest that M. oryzae is likely primarily coping with nutrient-limited environments at the invasive growth stage 72 hours post-inoculation, and not with oxidative or temperature stresses.
21247905	Although quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis of yield-related traits for rice has developed rapidly, crop models using genotype information have been proposed only relatively recently. As a first step towards a generic genotype-phenotype model, we present here a three-dimensional functional-structural plant model (FSPM) of rice, in which some model parameters are controlled by functions describing the effect of main-effect and epistatic QTLs. The model simulates the growth and development of rice based on selected ecophysiological processes, such as photosynthesis (source process) and organ formation, growth and extension (sink processes). It was devised using GroIMP, an interactive modelling platform based on the Relational Growth Grammar formalism (RGG). RGG rules describe the course of organ initiation and extension resulting in final morphology. The link between the phenotype (as represented by the simulated rice plant) and the QTL genotype was implemented via a data interface between the rice FSPM and the QTLNetwork software, which computes predictions of QTLs from map data and measured trait data. Using plant height and grain yield, it is shown how QTL information for a given trait can be used in an FSPM, computing and visualizing the phenotypes of different lines of a mapping population. Furthermore, we demonstrate how modification of a particular trait feeds back on the entire plant phenotype via the physiological processes considered. We linked a rice FSPM to a quantitative genetic model, thereby employing QTL information to refine model parameters and visualizing the dynamics of development of the entire phenotype as a result of ecophysiological processes, including the trait(s) for which genetic information is available. Possibilities for further extension of the model, for example for the purposes of ideotype breeding, are discussed.
21247929	The CEREALAB database aims to store genotypic and phenotypic data obtained by the CEREALAB project and to integrate them with already existing data sources in order to create a tool for plant breeders and geneticists. The database can help them in unravelling the genetics of economically important phenotypic traits; in identifying and choosing molecular markers associated to key traits; and in choosing the desired parentals for breeding programs. The database is divided into three sub-schemas corresponding to the species of interest: wheat, barley and rice; each sub-schema is then divided into two sub-ontologies, regarding genotypic and phenotypic data, respectively. Database URL: http://www.cerealab.unimore.it/jws/cerealab.jnlp.
21248477	The development of Casparian strips (CSs) on the endo- and exodermis and their chemical components in roots of three cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa) with different salt tolerance were compared using histochemistry and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The development and deposition of suberin lamellae of CSs on the endo- and exodermis in the salt-tolerant cultivar Liaohan 109 was earlier than in the moderately tolerant cultivar Tianfeng 202 and the sensitive cultivar Nipponbare. The detection of chemical components indicated major contributions to the structure of the outer part from aliphatic suberin, lignin, and cell wall proteins and carbohydrates to the rhizodermis, exodermis, sclerenchyma, and one layer of cortical cells in series (OPR) and the endodermal Casparian strip. Moreover, the amounts of these major chemical components in the outer part of the Liaohan 109 root were higher than in Tianfeng 202 and Nipponbare, but there was no distinct difference in endodermal CSs among the three rice cultivars. The results suggest that the exodermis of the salt-tolerant cultivar Liaohan 109 functions as a barrier for resisting salt stress.
21248479	Nrat1 is a plasma membrane-localized aluminum transporter recently identified in rice, which is a member of Nramp family. Here, we further characterized this transporter in terms of transport substrate specificity. Heterologous assay in yeast showed that Al transport activity by Nrat1 was unaffected by the presence of high concentration of Ca, but significantly inhibited by trivalent ions including Yb and Ga, analogs of Al. Knockout of Nrat1 did not affect the uptake of Cd and Mn in rice. On the other hand, over-expression of Nrat1 led to enhanced Al uptake by rice roots compared with wild-type rice, but did not affect Cd uptake. These results provide further evidence that unlike other Nramp members, Nrat1 is an influx transporter for trivalent Al ion.
21249201	Introgression plays an important role in evolution of plant species via its influences on genetic diversity and differentiation. Outcrossing determines the level of introgression but little is known about the relationships of outcrossing rates, genetic diversity, and differentiation particularly in a weedy taxon that coexists with its conspecific crop. Eleven weedy rice (Oryza sativa f. spontanea) populations from China were analyzed using microsatellite (SSR) fingerprints to study outcrossing rate and its relationship with genetic variability and differentiation. To estimate outcrossing, six highly polymorphic SSR loci were used to analyze >5500 progeny from 216 weedy rice families, applying a mixed mating model; to estimate genetic diversity and differentiation, 22 SSR loci were analyzed based on 301 weedy individuals. Additionally, four weed-crop shared SSR loci were used to estimate the influence of introgression from rice cultivars on weedy rice differentiation. Outcrossing rates varied significantly (0.4~11.7%) among weedy rice populations showing relatively high overall Nei's genetic diversity (0.635). The observed heterozygosity was significantly correlated with outcrossing rates among populations (r² = 0.783; P<0.001) although no obvious correlation between outcrossing rates and genetic diversity parameters was observed. Allelic introgression from rice cultivars to their coexisting weedy rice was detected. Weedy rice populations demonstrated considerable genetic differentiation that was correlated with their spatial distribution (r² = 0.734; P<0.001), and possibly also influenced by the introgression from rice cultivars. Outcrossing rates can significantly affect heterozygosity of populations, which may shape the evolutionary potential of weedy rice. Introgression from the conspecific crop rice can influence the genetic differentiation and possibly evolution of its coexisting weedy rice populations.
21250582	Food security has been a matter of concern in recent years due to the global food crisis and rising food prices. We aimed to study the level of food security in a densely populated urban area in southern India. A door-to-door survey of 130 households in an urban area in Vellore district, Tamil Nadu was done and information on food security status was collected using the United States Department of Agriculture Household Food Security Scale, on socioeconomic status using the modified Kuppuswamy scale and demographic details. Of the 130 households surveyed, food insecurity with hunger was present in 61.5% (95% CI 52.98%-70.02%), food insecurity without hunger in 13.1% (95% CI 7.2%-19%) and food security in 25.4% (95% CI 17.8%-33%) of the households. Prevalence of any form of food insecurity was present in three-fourths of the households (74.6%; 95% CI 67%-82.2%). Only 76 (58.5%) households used the public distribution system for buying rice-the staple food, and 63 (82.9%) households in the lower socioeconomic strata used the public distribution system for buying rice. Despite good penetration of the public distribution system in Tamil Nadu, the prevalence of food insecurity in urban areas is high. Nationwide and regional urban-rural food security data need to be studied to influence policy regarding the means to reduce food insecurity in India.
21251102	Monitoring nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) in plants is becoming essential to maintain yield while reducing fertilizer usage. Optimized NUE application in major crops is essential for long-term sustainability of agriculture production. Here, we report the precise identification of 11 major chromosomal regions controlling NUE in wheat that co-localise with key developmental genes such as Ppd (photoperiod sensitivity), Vrn (vernalization requirement), Rht (reduced height) and can be considered as robust markers from a molecular breeding perspective. Physical mapping, sequencing, annotation and candidate gene validation of an NUE metaQTL on wheat chromosome 3B allowed us to propose that a glutamate synthase (GoGAT) gene that is conserved structurally and functionally at orthologous positions in rice, sorghum and maize genomes may contribute to NUE in wheat and other cereals. We propose an evolutionary model for the NUE locus in cereals from a common ancestral region, involving species specific shuffling events such as gene deletion, inversion, transposition and the invasion of repetitive elements.
21251103	In angiosperms, interspecific crosses often display hybrid incompatibilities that are manifested as under-proliferation or over-proliferation of endosperm. Recent analyses using crosses between Arabidopsis thaliana and its related species with different ploidy levels have shown that interspecific hybridization causes delayed developmental transition and increased mitotic activity in the endosperm. In this study, we investigated endosperm development in interspecific crosses between diploid Oryza species. In a cross between female O. sativa and male O. punctata, we found that the hybrid endosperm was reduced in size and this cross was associated with precocious developmental transition. By contrast, the cross between O. sativa and O. longistaminata generated enlarged hybrid endosperm at the mid-point of seed development and this cross was associated with delayed developmental transition. Subsequently, the hybrid endosperm displayed a shriveled appearance at the seed maturation stage. We found that the accumulation of storage products and the expression patterns of several marker genes were also altered in the hybrid endosperm. By contrast, the rate of syncytial mitotic nuclear divisions was not significantly affected. The gene OsMADS87 showed a maternal origin-specific expression pattern in rice endosperm, in contrast to its Arabidopsis homologue PHERES1, which shows paternal origin-specific expression. OsMADS87 expression was decreased or increased depending on the type of developmental transition change in the hybrid rice endosperm. Our results indicate that one of the interspecies hybridization barriers in Oryza endosperm is mediated by precocious or delayed developmental alterations and de-regulation of OsMADS87, without change to the rate of syncytial mitotic nuclear division in the hybrid endosperm.
21251104	Small silencing RNAs (sRNAs) are non-coding RNA regulators that negatively regulate gene expression by guiding mRNA degradation, translation repression or chromatin modification. Plant sRNAs play crucial roles in various developmental processes, hormone signaling, immune responses and adaptation to a variety of abiotic stresses. miR441 and miR446 were previously annotated as microRNAs (miRNAs) because their precursors can form typical stem-loop structures, but are not considered as real miRNAs because of inconsistency with some ancillary criteria of the recent guidelines for annotation of plant miRNAs. We tentatively rename them small interfering (si)R441 and siR446, respectively, in this study. It has recently been shown that the precursors of siR441 and siR446 might originate from the miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE) Stowaway1. In this report, we show that, in contrast with Dicer-like (DCL)3- and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR)2-dependent MITE-derived ra-siRNAs, siR441 and siR446 are processed by OsDCL3a but independent of OsRDR2, indicating that siR441 and siR446 are generated from single-stranded stem-loop precursors. We also show that abscisic acid (ABA) and abiotic stresses downregulate the expression of siR441 and siR446 but, surprisingly, increase the accumulation of their precursors in rice plants, implying that processing of siRNA precursors is inhibited. We provide evidence to show that this defective processing is due to increased precursor accumulation per se, possibly by intermolecular self-pairing of the processing intermediate sequences, thus hindering their normal processing. Functional examinations indicate that siR441 and siR446 are positive regulators of rice ABA signaling and tolerance to abiotic stress, possibly by regulating MAIF1 expression.
21251105	How polytopic plasma membrane (PM) proteins reach their destination in plant cells remains elusive. Using transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells, we previously showed that the rice secretory carrier membrane protein 1 (SCAMP1), an integral membrane protein with four transmembrane domains (TMDs), is localized to the PM and trans-Golgi network (TGN). Here, we study the transport pathway and sorting signals of SCAMP1 by following its transient expression in tobacco BY-2 protoplasts and show that SCAMP1 reaches the PM via an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi-TGN-PM pathway. Loss-of-function and gain-of-function analysis of various green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions with SCAMP1 mutations further demonstrates that: (i) the cytosolic N-terminus of SCAMP1 contains an ER export signal; (ii) the transmembrane domain 2 (TMD2) and TMD3 of SCAMP1 are essential for Golgi export; (iii) SCAMP1 TMD1 is essential for TGN-to-PM targeting; (iv) the predicted topology of SCAMP1 and its various mutants remain identical as demonstrated by protease protection assay. Therefore, both the cytosolic N-terminus and TMD sequences of SCAMP1 play integral roles in mediating its transport to the PM via an ER-Golgi-TGN pathway.
21251107	Plants use sunlight as energy for photosynthesis; however, plant DNA is exposed to the harmful effects of ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation (280-320 nm) in the process. UV-B radiation damages nuclear, chloroplast and mitochondrial DNA by the formation of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs), which are the primary UV-B-induced DNA lesions, and are a principal cause of UV-B-induced growth inhibition in plants. Repair of CPDs is therefore essential for plant survival while exposed to UV-B-containing sunlight. Nuclear repair of the UV-B-induced CPDs involves the photoreversal of CPDs, photoreactivation, which is mediated by CPD photolyase that monomerizes the CPDs in DNA by using the energy of near-UV and visible light (300-500 nm). To date, the CPD repair processes in plant chloroplasts and mitochondria remain poorly understood. Here, we report the photoreactivation of CPDs in chloroplast and mitochondrial DNA in rice. Biochemical and subcellular localization analyses using rice strains with different levels of CPD photolyase activity and transgenic rice strains showed that full-length CPD photolyase is encoded by a single gene, not a splice variant, and is expressed and targeted not only to nuclei but also to chloroplasts and mitochondria. The results indicate that rice may have evolved a CPD photolyase that functions in chloroplasts, mitochondria and nuclei, and that contains DNA to protect cells from the harmful effects of UV-B radiation.
21251109	The Oryza sativa (rice) resistance gene Pia confers resistance to the blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae carrying the AVR-Pia avirulence gene. To clone Pia, we employed a multifaceted genomics approach. First, we selected 12 R-gene analog (RGA) genes encoding nucleotide binding site-leucine rich repeats (NBS-LRRs) proteins from a region on chromosome 11 that shows linkage to Pia. By using seven rice accessions, we examined the association between Pia phenotypes and DNA polymorphisms in the 10 genes, which revealed three genes (Os11gRGA3-Os11gRGA5) exhibiting a perfect association with the Pia phenotypes. We also screened ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS)-treated mutant lines of the rice cultivar 'Sasanishiki' harboring Pia, and isolated two mutants that lost the Pia phenotype. DNA sequencing of Os11gRGA3-Os11gRGA5 from the two mutant lines identified independent mutations of major effects in Os11gRGA4. The wild-type 'Sasanishiki' allele of Os11gRGA4 (SasRGA4) complemented Pia function in both mutants, suggesting that SasRGA4 is necessary for Pia function. However, when the rice cultivar 'Himenomochi' lacking Pia was transfected with SasRGA4, the Pia phenotype was not recovered. An additional complementation study revealed that the two NBS-LRR-type R genes, SasRGA4 and SasRGA5, that are located next to each other and oriented in the opposite direction are necessary for Pia function. A population genetics analysis of SasRGA4 and SasRGA5 suggests that the two genes are under long-term balancing selection.
21251754	Rice husk is an abundant agricultural byproduct. The research on comprehensive utilization of rice husk to prepare xylose, activated carbon and silica was carried out. The hydrolysis conditions of xylan in rice husk to produce xylose were as follows: the concentration of H(2)SO(4) was 3.6% (wt.%), the temperature was 100°C, the ratio of rice husk mass (g) to H(2)SO(4) solution (ml) was 1:5 and the time was 3 h. The hydrolysis degree of xylan reached 95.6%. The resulting residues were used to prepare activated carbons with the BET surface area of 1763 m(2)/g when 50% H(3)PO(4) was impregnated with rice husk with the ratio of 5:1 at 500°C for 0.5 h. The produced carbons had effective adsorption capability to purify the xylose solution. Furthermore, they exhibited good electrochemical performance. After adsorption, activated carbons were calcined to produce silica with the diameter of 30 nm.
21253568	The molecular mechanism for meiotic entry remains largely elusive in flowering plants. Only Arabidopsis SWI1/DYAD and maize AM1, both of which are the coiled-coil protein, are known to be required for the initiation of plant meiosis. The mechanism underlying the synchrony of male meiosis, characteristic to flowering plants, has also been unclear in the plant kingdom. In other eukaryotes, RNA-recognition-motif (RRM) proteins are known to play essential roles in germ-cell development and meiosis progression. Rice MEL2 protein discovered in this study shows partial similarity with human proline-rich RRM protein, deleted in Azoospermia-Associated Protein1 (DAZAP1), though MEL2 also possesses ankyrin repeats and a RING finger motif. Expression analyses of several cell-cycle markers revealed that, in mel2 mutant anthers, most germ cells failed to enter premeiotic S-phase and meiosis, and a part escaped from the defect and underwent meiosis with a significant delay or continued mitotic cycles. Immunofluorescent detection revealed that T7 peptide-tagged MEL2 localized at cytoplasmic perinuclear region of germ cells during premeiotic interphase in transgenic rice plants. This study is the first report of the plant RRM protein, which is required for regulating the premeiotic G1/S-phase transition of male and female germ cells and also establishing synchrony of male meiosis. This study will contribute to elucidation of similarities and diversities in reproduction system between plants and other species.
21254325	Brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stål; BPH) resistance genes Bph14 and Bph15 have been introgressed singly or pyramided into rice variety Minghui 63 (MH63). The antibiosis and antixenosis effects of these rice lines on BPH and the expression of five P450 genes of BPH regulated by these rice lines were investigated in this study. The resistance level of rice lines harbouring resistance genes was improved compared with MH63. MH63::14 (carrying Bph14) had negative effects on the development of males, honeydew excretion of females, the female ratio and the copulation rate compared with MH63. MH63::14 also exhibited antixenosis action against BPH nymphs, female adults and oviposition. Besides these negative effects, MH63::15 (carrying Bph15) could also retard the development of females, lower the fecundity and shorten the lifespan of females. The antixenosis action of MH63::15 was stronger than that of MH63::14. When Bph14 and Bph15 were pyramided, antibiosis and antixenosis effects were significantly enhanced relative to single-introgression lines. Among the five P450 genes of BPH, expression of three genes was upregulated, one gene was downregulated and one gene was unchanged by resistant hosts. Both Bph14 and Bph15 could improve resistance levels of MH63. MH63::15 and MH63::14&15 had greater potential to control BPH infestations than MH63::14.
21254328	Tricyclazole is a commercial fungicide used to control rice blast. As part of re-registration activities, samples of metabolites and process impurities are required. In addition, isotopically labeled tricyclazole samples are also required. Four new compounds related to tricyclazole are reported. An isotopically labeled sample of tricyclazole was prepared that contained two (15)N atoms and one (13)C atom. Radiolabeled tricyclazole with (14)C at the triazole C3 position was also synthesized. A new process impurity in technical tricyclazole was identified and synthesized. A new metabolite of tricyclazole was identified, independently synthesized and characterized by X-ray crystallography. A previously unreported metabolite of tricyclazole has been identified and structurally characterized. In addition, a new process impurity has been identified by independent synthesis. Identification of these new compounds has facilitated the continued registration of this important fungicide.
21254329	Pymetrozine is a valuable novel insecticide for control of sucking insects, including the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål), one of the most serious pests on rice. This study was conducted to elucidate the action mechanisms of pymetrozine on the feeding behaviour of the planthopper. The activity test showed that pymetrozine primarily functioned as an antifeedant that caused starvation and death in N. lugens, rather than having neurotoxicity. Pymetrozine-treated insects died at a significantly slower speed than insects treated with starvation. Electrical penetration graph (EPG) data indicated that pymetrozine significantly increased the duration of non-probing periods and had a strong inhibition to phloem ingestion. The inhibition was strongly dose dependent, resulting in a complete suppression of the activity in the phloem region when the pymetrozine concentration was increased to 400 mg L(-1) . Starvation caused by inhibition of phloem ingestion might be a major toxicity mechanism of pymetrozine. EPG data also showed that pymetrozine had no significant effect on stylet movement and duration of xylem sap ingestion. The study revealed that pymetrozine disturbed the feeding behaviour of N. lugens mainly by increasing the non-probe period and inhibiting phloem ingestion. The inhibition resulted in a slow death similar to starvation.
21255162	Rice plants grown in paddy fields preferentially use ammonium as a source of inorganic nitrogen. Glutamine synthetase (GS) catalyses the conversion of ammonium to glutamine. Of the three genes encoding cytosolic GS in rice, OsGS1;1 is critical for normal growth and grain filling. However, the basis of its physiological function that may alter the rate of nitrogen assimilation and carbon metabolism within the context of metabolic networks remains unclear. To address this issue, we carried out quantitative comparative analyses between the metabolite profiles of a rice mutant lacking OsGS1;1 and its background wild type (WT). The mutant plants exhibited severe retardation of shoot growth in the presence of ammonium compared with the WT. Overaccumulation of free ammonium in the leaf sheath and roots of the mutant indicated the importance of OsGS1;1 for ammonium assimilation in both organs. The metabolite profiles of the mutant line revealed: (i) an imbalance in levels of sugars, amino acids and metabolites in the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and (ii) overaccumulation of secondary metabolites, particularly in the roots under a continuous supply of ammonium. Metabolite-to-metabolite correlation analysis revealed the presence of mutant-specific networks between tryptamine and other primary metabolites in the roots. These results demonstrated a crucial function of OsGS1;1 in coordinating the global metabolic network in rice plants grown using ammonium as the nitrogen source.
21255373	Clostridium cellulovorans, an anaerobic and mesophilic bacterium, degrades native substrates in soft biomass such as corn fibre and rice straw efficiently by producing an extracellular enzyme complex called the cellulosome. Recently, we have reported the whole-genome sequence of C. cellulovorans comprising 4220 predicted genes in 5.10 Mbp [Y. Tamaru et al., (2010) J. Bacteriol., 192: 901–902]. As a result, the genome size of C. cellulovorans was about 1 Mbp larger than that of other cellulosome-producing clostridia, mesophilic C. cellulolyticum and thermophilic C. thermocellum. A total of 57 cellulosomal genes were found in the C. cellulovorans genome, and they coded for not only carbohydrate-degrading enzymes but also a lipase, peptidases and proteinase inhibitors. Interestingly, two novel genes encoding scaffolding proteins were found in the genome. According to KEGG metabolic pathways and their comparison with 11 Clostridial genomes, gene expansion in the C. cellulovorans genome indicated mainly non-cellulosomal genes encoding hemicellulases and pectin-degrading enzymes. Thus, by examining genome sequences from multiple Clostridium species, comparative genomics offers new insight into genome evolution and the way natural selection moulds functional DNA sequence evolution. Our analysis, coupled with the genome sequence data, provides a roadmap for constructing enhanced cellulosome-producing Clostridium strains for industrial applications such as biofuel production.
21255809	Plants are known to secrete a variety of compounds into the rhizosphere. These compounds are thought to play important roles in the regulation of soil chemical properties and soil microorganisms. To determine the composition of proteins secreted from rice roots, aseptic hydro culture was performed, and the collected proteins were analyzed. Over 100 proteins were identified; most were identified using the rice database (RAP-DB), and about 60% of the identified proteins were suspected to have a signal peptide. Functional categorization suggested that most were secondary metabolism- and defense-related proteins. Pathogenesis- and stress-related proteins were the major proteins found in the bathing solution under aseptic conditions. Thus, we propose that rice plants constitutively secrete a large variety of proteins to protect their roots against abiotic and/or biotic stresses in the environment.
21258067	Molecular breeding approaches are of growing importance to crop improvement. However, closely related cultivars generally used for crossing material lack sufficient known DNA polymorphisms due to their genetic relatedness. Next-generation sequencing allows the identification of a massive number of DNA polymorphisms such as single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and insertions-deletions (InDels) between highly homologous genomes. Using this technology, we performed whole-genome sequencing of a landrace of japonica rice, Omachi, which is used for sake brewing and is an important source for modern cultivars. A total of 229 million reads, each comprising 75 nucleotides of the Omachi genome, was generated with 45-fold coverage and uniquely mapped to 89.7% of the Nipponbare genome, a closely related cultivar. We identified 132,462 SNPs, 16,448 insertions and 19,318 deletions between the Omachi and Nipponbare genomes. An SNP array was designed to validate 731 selected SNPs, resulting in validation rates of 95 and 88% for the Omachi and Nipponbare genomes, respectively. Among the 577 SNPs validated in both genomes, 532 are entirely new SNP markers not previously reported between related rice cultivars. We also validated InDels on a part of chromosome 2 as DNA markers and successfully genotyped five japonica rice cultivars. Our results present the methodology and extensive data on SNPs and InDels available for whole-genome genotyping and marker-assisted breeding. The polymorphism information between Omachi and Nipponbare is available at NGRC_Rice_Omachi (http://www.nodai-genome.org/oryza_sativa_en.html).
21258627	A large percentage of allergenic proteins are of plant origin. Hence, plant-based expression systems are considered ideal for the recombinant production of certain allergens. First attempts to establish production of plant-derived allergens in plants focused on transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana infected with recombinant viral vectors. Accordingly, allergens from birch and mugwort pollen, as well as from apple have been expressed in plants. Production of house dust mite allergens has been achieved by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of tobacco plants. Beside the use of plants as production systems, other approaches have focused on the development of edible vaccines expressing allergens or epitopes thereof, which bypasses the need of allergen purification. The potential of this approach has been convincingly demonstrated for transgenic rice seeds expressing seven dominant human T cell epitopes derived from Japanese cedar pollen allergens. Parallel to efforts in developing recombinant-based diagnostic and therapeutic reagents, different gene-silencing approaches have been used to decrease the expression of allergenic proteins in allergen sources. In this way hypoallergenic ryegrass, soybean, rice, apple, and tomato were developed.
21259142	Aflatoxins and fumonisins are ubiquitous foodborne toxicants and the co-occurrence of these mycotoxins in human foods represents a significant public health concern, which has been strongly associated with human aflatoxicosis, neural tube defects, as well as many types of primary cancers. In this study the co-contamination of aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) and fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) in food and human dietary exposure was investigated in residents of three different areas of China. A total of 209 food samples were measured for AFB(1) and FB(1). The median AFB(1) levels were 13.5, 2.3 and 1.3 µg kg(-1) and the median FB(1) levels were 2.6, 0.4 and 0.3 mg kg(-1) in corn samples collected from Huaian (a high-risk area for oesophageal cancer), Fusui (a high-risk area for liver cancer) and Huantai (a low-risk area for both oesophageal and liver cancers), respectively. The median level of AFB(1) in plant oil of Fusui was the highest (52.3 µg kg(-1)) among all food samples analysed. Co-contamination of these two mycotoxins was found in corn, rice and wheat flour. Based on measured food consumption data, the averaged daily dietary intake of AFB(1) was 0.397 µg (range = 0.269-1.218 µg) in residents of Huantai, 1.723 µg (0.224-49.772 µg) in Huaian, and 2.685 µg (1.006-14.534 µg) in Fusui. The averaged FB(1) daily dietary intake was 92.4 µg (range = 55.0-362.1 µg) for residents of Huantai, 460.0 µg (83.2-2894.5 µg) in Huaian, and 138.6 µg (30.0-10,541.6 µg) in Fusui. These data suggest that the co-exposure to AFB(1) and FB(1) in residents of rural China may contribute to the aetiology of human chronic diseases in high-risk areas.
21261040	A method was developed for the determination of glyphosate (GLY) and aminomethylphosphonic acid (AMPA) in rice using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The sample was extracted with water followed by a simple cleanup with a C18 solid phase extraction (SPE) cartridge, and then GLY and AMPA were derivatized using 9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl (FMOC-Cl) in borate buffer. The derivatives of GLY and AMPA were separated on a C18 column with gradient elution with the mobile phase of acetonitrile and 5 mmol/L ammonium acetate (pH 9), and finally detected with negative ion electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. The results showed that the linearities of GLY and AMPA were in the concentration range of 0.000 50 to 1.0 mg/L with the correlation coefficients of 0.999 7 and 0.999 9, respectively. The mean spiked recoveries of GLY and AMPA at 3 spiked levels ranged from 72.5% to 113.6% with the relative standard deviations (RSD, n = 5) of 3.8% - 16.2%. The limits of detection were 2.0 and 3.0 microg/kg for GLY and AMPA, respectively. This method is rapid, sensitive, and suitable for simultaneous determination of GLY and AMPA in rice.
21261047	A gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method was developed for the determination of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline in aroma rice. 2,4,6-Trimethylpyridine (TMP) was added into the sample of aroma rice as internal standard, and the compound was extracted by the mixture of anhydrous ethyl alcohol and methylene chloride (1: 1, v/v) at 80 degrees C for 3 h under sealed condition in water bath. The effects of the temperature and time on the extraction were investigated. The analyte was separated and determined using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry on an HP-5MS capillary column (30 m x 0.25 mm x 0.25 microm) in scan monitoring mode. Calculated as 2,4, 6-trimethylpyridine, the average recovery of the method was 82.57% with the relative standard deviation of 5.09%, and the detection limit of method was 0.01 mg/kg. The method was employed for the determination of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline in 11 aroma rice breeding varieties. The results showed that 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline was detected in 5 aroma rice varieties, including Qingxiangmi, Taixiang R207, Texmati, Guixiangsinuo and Zhongjian 2, with the contents of 0.097, 0.098, 0.699, 0.045 and 0.047 mg/kg, respectively. The method is simple, rapid and sensitive with low sample and reagent consumption. It is suitable for screening a lot of aroma rice varieties in breeding through the determination of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline content.
21261203	Arsenic contamination of tubewell water is a major public-health problem in Bangladesh. In the recent years, the use of shallow and deep tubewell water for irrigation and the use of excess amount of cheap fertilizers and pesticides containing cadmium pose a serious threat of contamination of arsenic and cadmium in food. In an exploratory study, arsenic and cadmium were measured in foods from Matlab, a rural area in Bangladesh, that is extensively affected by arsenic and the economy is agriculture-based. Raw and cooked food samples were collected from village homes (households, n=13) and analyzed to quantify concentrations of arsenic and cadmium using atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Washing rice with water before cooking reduced the concentration of arsenic in raw rice by 13-15%. Rice, when cooked with excess water discarded, showed a significant decrease in arsenic concentration compared to that cooked without discarding the water (p<0.001). In contrast, concentration of cadmium did not decrease in cooked rice after discarding water. Cooked rice with discarded water had significantly lower concentration of arsenic compared to raw rice (p=0.002). Raw rice had higher concentration of arsenic compared to raw vegetables (p<0.001); however, no such difference was found for cadmium. Compared to raw vegetables (e.g. arum), concentration of arsenic increased significantly (p=0.024) when cooked with arsenic-contaminated water. Thus, the practice of discarding excess water while cooking rice reduces the concentration of arsenic but not of cadmium in cooked rice. However, water generally not discarded when cooking vegetables to avoid loss of micronutrients consequently retains arsenic. The results suggest that arsenic and cadmium have entered the food-chain of Bangladesh, and the cooking practices influence the concentration of arsenic but not of cadmium in cooked food.
21261463	The subtilisin-like serine protease SbtM1 is strongly and specifically induced during arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) symbiosis in Lotus japonicus. Another subtilase gene, SbtS, is induced during early stages of nodulation and AM. Transcript profiling in plant symbiosis mutants revealed that the AM-induced expression of SbtM1 and the gene family members SbtM3 and SbtM4 is dependent on the common symbiosis pathway, whereas an independent pathway contributes to the activation of SbtS. We used the specific spatial expression patterns of SbtM1 promoter β-d-glucuronidase (GUS) fusions to isolate cis elements that confer AM responsiveness. A promoter deletion and substitution analysis defined two cis regions (region I and II) in the SbtM1 promoter necessary for AM-induced GUS activity. 35S minimal promoter fusions revealed that either of the two regions is sufficient for AM responsiveness when tested in tandem repeat arrangement. Sequence-related regions were found in the promoters of AM-induced subtilase genes in Medicago truncatula and rice, consistent with an ancient origin of these elements predating the divergence of the angiosperms.
21261467	Plant disease epidemiology requires expansion of its current methodological and theoretical underpinnings in order to produce full contributions to global food security and global changes. Here, we outline a framework which we applied to farmers' field survey data set on rice diseases in the tropical and subtropical lowlands of Asia. Crop health risks arise from individual diseases, as well as their combinations in syndromes. Four key drivers of agricultural change were examined: labor, water, fertilizer, and land availability that translate into crop establishment method, water shortage, fertilizer input, and fallow period duration, respectively, as well as their combinations in production situations. Various statistical approaches, within a hierarchical structure, proceeding from higher levels of hierarchy (production situations and disease syndromes) to lower ones (individual components of production situations and individual diseases) were used. These analyses showed that (i) production situations, as wholes, represent very large risk factors (positive or negative) for occurrence of disease syndromes; (ii) production situations are strong risk factors for individual diseases; (iii) drivers of agricultural change represent strong risk factors of disease syndromes; and (iv) drivers of change, taken individually, represent small but significant risk factors for individual diseases. The latter analysis indicates that different diseases are positively or negatively associated with shifts in these drivers. We also report scenario analyses, in which drivers of agricultural change are varied in response to possible climate and global changes, generating predictions of shifts in rice health risks. The overall set of analyses emphasizes the need for large-scale ground data to define research priorities for plant protection in rapidly evolving contexts. They illustrate how a structured theoretical framework can be used to analyze emergent features of agronomic and socioecological systems. We suggest that the concept of "disease syndrome" can be borrowed in botanical epidemiology from public health to emphasize a holistic view of disease in shifting production situations in combination with the conventional, individual disease-centered perspective.
21261937	Rhizomatousness is a key component of perenniality of many grasses that contribute to competitiveness and invasiveness of many noxious grass weeds, but can potentially be used to develop perennial cereal crops for sustainable farmers in hilly areas of tropical Asia. Oryza longistaminata, a perennial wild rice with strong rhizomes, has been used as the model species for genetic and molecular dissection of rhizome development and in breeding efforts to transfer rhizome-related traits into annual rice species. In this study, an effort was taken to get insights into the genes and molecular mechanisms underlying the rhizomatous trait in O. longistaminata by comparative analysis of the genome-wide tissue-specific gene expression patterns of five different tissues of O. longistaminata using the Affymetrix GeneChip Rice Genome Array. A total of 2,566 tissue-specific genes were identified in five different tissues of O. longistaminata, including 58 and 61 unique genes that were specifically expressed in the rhizome tips (RT) and internodes (RI), respectively. In addition, 162 genes were up-regulated and 261 genes were down-regulated in RT compared to the shoot tips. Six distinct cis-regulatory elements (CGACG, GCCGCC, GAGAC, AACGG, CATGCA, and TAAAG) were found to be significantly more abundant in the promoter regions of genes differentially expressed in RT than in the promoter regions of genes uniformly expressed in all other tissues. Many of the RT and/or RI specifically or differentially expressed genes were located in the QTL regions associated with rhizome expression, rhizome abundance and rhizome growth-related traits in O. longistaminata and thus are good candidate genes for these QTLs. The initiation and development of the rhizomatous trait in O. longistaminata are controlled by very complex gene networks involving several plant hormones and regulatory genes, different members of gene families showing tissue specificity and their regulated pathways. Auxin/IAA appears to act as a negative regulator in rhizome development, while GA acts as the activator in rhizome development. Co-localization of the genes specifically expressed in rhizome tips and rhizome internodes with the QTLs for rhizome traits identified a large set of candidate genes for rhizome initiation and development in rice for further confirmation.
21262523	Bioreactors are one possible best sustainable technology to address the mine-impacted water problems. Several prospective substrates (mushroom compost, cow manure, sawdust, wood chips, and cut rice straw) were characterized for their ability to serve as a source of food and energy for sulfate-reducing bacteria. Twenty bench-scale batch bioreactors were then designed and set up to investigate relative effectiveness of various mixtures of substrates to that of mushroom compost, the most commonly used substrate in field bioreactors, for treating mine drainage with acidic (pH 3) and moderate pH (pH 6). Overall, reactive mixtures showed satisfactory performances in generating alkalinity, reducing sulfate and removing metals (Al>Fe>Mn) (up to 100%) at both pH conditions, for all substrates. The mixture of sawdust and cow manure was found as the most effective whereas the mixture containing 40% cut rice straw gave limited efficiency, suggesting organic carbon released from this substrate is not readily available for biodegradation under anaerobic conditions. The mushroom compost-based bioreactors released significant amount of sulfate, which may raise a more concern upon the start-up of field-scale bioreactors. The correlation between the extent of sulfate reduction and dissolved organic carbon/SO(4)(2-) ratio was weak and this indicates that the type of dissolved organic carbon plays a more important role in sulfate reduction than the absolute concentration and that the ratio is not sensitive enough to properly describe the relative effectiveness of substrate mixtures.
21263038	The genetic mechanism involved in a transition from the black-colored seed hull of the ancestral wild rice (Oryza rufipogon and Oryza nivara) to the straw-white seed hull of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) during grain ripening remains unknown. We report that the black hull of O. rufipogon was controlled by the Black hull4 (Bh4) gene, which was fine-mapped to an 8.8-kb region on rice chromosome 4 using a cross between O. rufipogon W1943 (black hull) and O. sativa indica cv Guangluai 4 (straw-white hull). Bh4 encodes an amino acid transporter. A 22-bp deletion within exon 3 of the bh4 variant disrupted the Bh4 function, leading to the straw-white hull in cultivated rice. Transgenic study indicated that Bh4 could restore the black pigment on hulls in cv Guangluai 4 and Kasalath. Bh4 sequence alignment of all taxa with the outgroup Oryza barthii showed that the wild rice maintained comparable levels of nucleotide diversity that were about 70 times higher than those in the cultivated rice. The results from the maximum likelihood Hudson-Kreitman-Aguade test suggested that the significant reduction in nucleotide diversity in rice cultivars could be caused by artificial selection. We propose that the straw-white hull was selected as an important visual phenotype of nonshattered grains during rice domestication.
21264494	Plant morphogenesis is highly dependent on the regulation of cell division and expansion. The organization of the cellulose microfibrils in the cell wall is a key determinant of cell expansion. Previously, a dwarf mutant with fewer tillers, Osbc1l4 (Oryza sativa brittle culm 1 like 4), was identified by screening a rice T-DNA insertion mutant library. It is reported here that OsBC1L4 encodes a COBRA-like protein that exhibits typical structural features of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchor protein. The T-DNA insertion in OsBC1L4 results in abnormal cell expansion. A decrease in cellulose content but the increase in pectin and starch contents was identified in Osbc1l4 mutants by measuring the content of wall components. OsBC1L4 was expressed in all tissues/organs examined, with a low level in leaves. OsBC1L4 protein is mainly located in the cell wall and plasma membrane. Correlation analysis indicated that the expression of OsBC1L4 was highly correlated to that of several primary wall-forming cellulose synthase genes (CESAs). Moreover, the expression level of several cellulose-related genes is increased in Osbc1l4 mutants, which suggests that a feedback mechanism may exist during cellulose synthesis.
21265044	Cucumber and rice plants with varying ammonium (NH(4)(+)) sensitivities were used to examine the effects of different nitrogen (N) sources on gas exchange, chlorophyll (Chl) fluorescence quenching, and photosynthetic electron allocation. Compared to nitrate (NO(3)(-))-grown plants, cucumber plants grown under NH(4)(+)-nutrition showed decreased plant growth, net photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, intercellular carbon dioxide (CO(2)) level, transpiration rate, maximum photochemical efficiency of photosystem II, and O(2)-independent alternative electron flux, and increased O(2)-dependent alternative electron flux. However, the N source had little effect on gas exchange, Chl a fluorescence parameters, and photosynthetic electron allocation in rice plants, except that NH(4)(+)-grown plants had a higher O(2)-independent alternative electron flux than NO(3)(-)-grown plants. NO(3)(-) reduction activity was rarely detected in leaves of NH(4)(+)-grown cucumber plants, but was high in NH(4)(+)-grown rice plants. These results demonstrate that significant amounts of photosynthetic electron transport were coupled to NO(3)(-) assimilation, an effect more significant in NO(3)(-)-grown plants than in NH(4)(+)-grown plants. Meanwhile, NH(4)(+)-tolerant plants exhibited a higher demand for the reduced form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) for NO(3)(-) reduction, regardless of the N form supplied, while NH(4)(+)-sensitive plants had a high water-water cycle activity when NH(4)(+) was supplied as the sole N source.
21265150	Based on the technique of passive nighttime warming (PNW), a convenient and energy-saving PNW facility was designed for a rice-wheat cropping system in Danyang, Jiangsu Province. The facility could guarantee 15.75 m2 effective sampling area, with a homogeneous amplitude of increased temperature, and making the nighttime canopy temperature during whole rice growth season increased averagely by 1.1 degrees C and the nighttime canopy temperature and 5 cm soil temperature during whole winter wheat growth period increased averagely by 1.3 degrees C and 0.8 degrees C, respectively. During the operation period of the facility, the variation trends of the canopy temperature and 5 cm soil temperature during the whole growth periods of rice and winter wheat in the warming plots were similar to those of the control. Though the facility slightly decreased the soil moisture content during winter wheat growth period, wheat growth was less impacted. The application of this facility in our main production areas of rice and winter wheat showed that the facility could advance the initial blossoming stages of rice and winter wheat averagely by 3 d and 5 d, respectively. In despite of the discrepancy in the warming effect among different regions and seasons, this energy-saving facility was reliable for the field research on crop responses to climate warming, when the homogeneity of increased temperature, the effective area, and the effects on crop growth period were taken into comprehensive consideration.
21265890	Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is associated with a mitochondrial mutation that causes an inability to produce fertile pollen. The fertility of CMS plants is restored in the presence of a nuclear-encoded fertility restorer (Rf) gene. In Lead Rice-type CMS, discovered in the indica variety 'Lead Rice', fertility of the CMS plant is restored by the single nuclear-encoded gene Rf2 in a gametophytic manner. We performed map-based cloning of Rf2, and proved that it encodes a protein consisting of 152 amino acids with a glycine-rich domain. Expression of Rf2 mRNA was detected in developing and mature anthers. An RF2-GFP fusion was shown to be targeted to mitochondria. Replacement of isoleucine by threonine at amino acid 78 of the RF2 protein was considered to be the cause of functional loss in the rf2 allele. As Rf2 does not encode a pentatricopeptide repeat protein, unlike a majority of previously identified Rf genes, the data from this study provide new insights into the mechanism for restoring fertility in CMS.
21265893	The Triticum aestivum (bread wheat) disease resistance gene Lr34 confers durable, race non-specific protection against three fungal pathogens, and has been a highly relevant gene for wheat breeding since the green revolution. Lr34, located on chromosome 7D, encodes an ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter. Both wheat cultivars with and without Lr34-based resistance encode a putatively functional protein that differ by only two amino acid polymorphisms. In this study, we focused on the identification and characterization of homoeologous and orthologous Lr34 genes in hexaploid wheat and other grasses. In hexaploid wheat we found an expressed and putatively functional Lr34 homoeolog located on chromosome 4A, designated Lr34-B. Another homoeologous Lr34 copy, located on chromosome 7A, was disrupted by the insertion of repetitive elements. Protein sequences of LR34-B and LR34 were 97% identical. Orthologous Lr34 genes were detected in the genomes of Oryza sativa (rice) and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum). Zea mays (maize), Brachypodium distachyon and Hordeum vulgare (barley) lacked Lr34 orthologs, indicating independent deletion of this particular ABC transporter. Lr34 was part of a gene-rich island on the wheat D genome. We found gene colinearity on the homoeologous A and B genomes of hexaploid wheat, but little microcolinearity in other grasses. The homoeologous LR34-B protein and the orthologs from rice and sorghum have the susceptible haplotype for the two critical polymorphisms distinguishing the LR34 proteins from susceptible and resistant wheat cultivars. We conclude that the particular Lr34-haplotype found in resistant wheat cultivars is unique. It probably resulted from functional gene diversification that occurred after the polyploidization event that was at the origin of cultivated bread wheat.
2126600
21266036	Duplications are very common in the evolution of plant genomes, explaining the high number of members in plant gene families. New genes born after duplication can undergo pseudogenization, neofunctionalization or subfunctionalization. Rice is a model for functional genomics research, an important crop for human nutrition and a target for biofortification. Increased zinc and iron content in the rice grain could be achieved by manipulation of metal transporters. Here, we describe the ZINC-INDUCED FACILITATOR-LIKE (ZIFL) gene family in plants, and characterize the genomic structure and expression of rice paralogs, which are highly affected by segmental duplication. Sequences of sixty-eight ZIFL genes, from nine plant species, were comparatively analyzed. Although related to MSF_1 proteins, ZIFL protein sequences consistently grouped separately. Specific ZIFL sequence signatures were identified. Monocots harbor a larger number of ZIFL genes in their genomes than dicots, probably a result of a lineage-specific expansion. The rice ZIFL paralogs were named OsZIFL1 to OsZIFL13 and characterized. The genomic organization of the rice ZIFL genes seems to be highly influenced by segmental and tandem duplications and concerted evolution, as rice genome contains five highly similar ZIFL gene pairs. Most rice ZIFL promoters are enriched for the core sequence of the Fe-deficiency-related box IDE1. Gene expression analyses of different plant organs, growth stages and treatments, both from our qPCR data and from microarray databases, revealed that the duplicated ZIFL gene pairs are mostly co-expressed. Transcripts of OsZIFL4, OsZIFL5, OsZIFL7, and OsZIFL12 accumulate in response to Zn-excess and Fe-deficiency in roots, two stresses with partially overlapping responses. We suggest that ZIFL genes have different evolutionary histories in monocot and dicot lineages. In rice, concerted evolution affected ZIFL duplicated genes, possibly maintaining similar expression patterns between pairs. The enrichment for IDE1 boxes in rice ZIFL gene promoters suggests a role in Zn-excess and Fe-deficiency up-regulation of ZIFL transcripts. Moreover, this is the first description of the ZIFL gene family in plants and the basis for functional studies on this family, which may play important roles in Zn and Fe homeostasis in plants.
21266471	With the advent of DNA sequencing technologies, more and more reference genome sequences are available for many organisms. Analyzing sequence variation and understanding its biological importance are becoming a major research aim. However, how to store and process the huge amount of eukaryotic genome data, such as those of the human, mouse and rice, has become a challenge to biologists. Currently available bioinformatics tools used to compress genome sequence data have some limitations, such as the requirement of the reference single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) map and information on deletions and insertions. Here, we present a novel compression tool for storing and analyzing Genome ReSequencing data, named GRS. GRS is able to process the genome sequence data without the use of the reference SNPs and other sequence variation information and automatically rebuild the individual genome sequence data using the reference genome sequence. When its performance was tested on the first Korean personal genome sequence data set, GRS was able to achieve ∼159-fold compression, reducing the size of the data from 2986.8 to 18.8 MB. While being tested against the sequencing data from rice and Arabidopsis thaliana, GRS compressed the 361.0 MB rice genome data to 4.4 MB, and the A. thaliana genome data from 115.1 MB to 6.5 KB. This de novo compression tool is available at http://gmdd.shgmo.org/Computational-Biology/GRS.
21266659	Whole genome duplication ~70 million years ago provided raw material for Poaceae (grass) diversification. Comparison of rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), maize (Zea mays), and Brachypodium distachyon genomes revealed that one paleo-duplicated chromosome pair has experienced very different evolution than all the others. For tens of millions of years, the two chromosomes have experienced illegitimate recombination that has been temporally restricted in a stepwise manner, producing structural stratification in the chromosomes. These strata formed independently in different grass lineages, with their similarities (low sequence divergence between paleo-duplicated genes) preserved in parallel for millions of years since the divergence of these lineages. The pericentromeric region of this homeologous chromosome pair accounts for two-thirds of the gene content differences between the modern chromosomes. Both intriguing and perplexing is a distal chromosomal region with the greatest DNA similarity between surviving duplicated genes but also with the highest concentration of lineage-specific gene pairs found anywhere in these genomes and with a significantly elevated gene evolutionary rate. Intragenomic similarity near this chromosomal terminus may be important in hom(e)ologous chromosome pairing. Chromosome structural stratification, together with enrichment of autoimmune response-related (nucleotide binding site-leucine-rich repeat) genes and accelerated DNA rearrangement and gene loss, confer a striking resemblance of this grass chromosome pair to the sex chromosomes of other taxa.
21267709	Positional gene isolation in unsequenced species generally requires either a reference genome sequence or an inference of gene content based on conservation of synteny with a genomic model. In the large unsequenced genomes of the Triticeae cereals the latter, i.e. conservation of synteny with the rice and Brachypodium genomes, provides a powerful proxy for establishing local gene content and order. However, efficient exploitation of conservation of synteny requires 'homology bridges' between the model genome and the target region that contains a gene of interest. As effective homology bridges are generally the sequences of genetically mapped genes, increasing the density of these genes around a target locus is an important step in the process. We used bulked segregant analysis (BSA) of transcript abundance data to identify genes located in a specific region of the barley genome. The approach is valuable because only a relatively small proportion of barley genes are currently placed on a genetic map. We analyzed eQTL datasets from the reference Steptoe × Morex doubled haploid population and showed a strong association between differential gene expression and cis-regulation, with 83% of differentially expressed genes co-locating with their eQTL. We then performed BSA by assembling allele-specific pools based on the genotypes of individuals at the partial resistance QTL Rphq11. BSA identified a total of 411 genes as differentially expressed, including HvPHGPx, a gene previously identified as a promising candidate for Rphq11. The genetic location of 276 of these genes could be determined from both eQTL datasets and conservation of synteny, and 254 (92%) of these were located on the target chromosome. We conclude that the identification of differential expression by BSA constitutes a novel method to identify genes located in specific regions of interest. The datasets obtained from such studies provide a robust set of candidate genes for the analysis and serve as valuable resources for targeted marker development and comparative mapping with other grass species.
21267722	As it is known that food waste can be reduced by the larvae of Hermetia illucens (Black soldier fly, BSF), the scientific and commercial value of BSF larvae has increased recently. We hypothesised that the ability of catabolic degradation by BSF larvae might be due to intestinal microorganisms. Herein, we analysed the bacterial communities in the gut of BSF larvae by pyrosequencing of extracting intestinal metagenomic DNA from larvae that had been fed three different diets. The 16S rRNA sequencing results produced 9737, 9723 and 5985 PCR products from larval samples fed food waste, cooked rice and calf forage, respectively. A BLAST search using the EzTaxon program showed that the bacterial community in the gut of larvae fed three different diets was mainly composed of the four phyla with dissimilar proportions. Although the composition of the bacterial communities depended on the different nutrient sources, the identified bacterial strains in the gut of BSF larvae represented unique bacterial species that were unlike the intestinal microflora of other insects. Thus, our study analysed the structure of the bacterial communities in the gut of BSF larvae after three different feedings and assessed the application of particular bacteria for the efficient degradation of organic compounds.
21268274	To survey protein expression patterns in the reduced culm number (RCN) rice, a comparative shotgun proteomic analysis was conducted. For large-scale protein identification, multidimensional protein identification technology (MudPIT) coupled with pre-fractionation of plant shoot proteins led to the identification of 3004 non-redundant rice proteins. By statistically comparing relative amounts of 1353 reproducibly identified proteins between the RCN rice and the wild-type rice, 44 differentially expressed proteins were detected, where 42 proteins were increased and 2 proteins were decreased in the RCN rice. These proteins appear to have roles in glycolysis, trichloroacetic acid cycle, secondary metabolism, nutrient recycling, and nucleotide metabolism and repair. Consequently, we hypothesized that the RCN rice might fail to maintain sugar nutrient homeostasis. This was confirmed with the observation that the sucrose concentration was increased significantly in the RCN rice compared with the wild-type rice. Also, the RCN rice showed a hypersensitive response to exogenous sucrose treatment.
21269364	Effects of rice straw particle size and physically effective neutral detergent fiber (peNDF) on particle size distribution of different digestive tract, nitrogen (N) metabolism, blood biochemical parameters, microbial amino acid (AA) composition and intestinal AA digestibility in goats were investigated. A 4 × 4 Latin square design was employed using four mature Liuyang black goats fitted with permanent ruminal, duodenal, and terminal ileal fistulae. During each of the four periods, goats were offered one of four diets that were similar in chemical composition, but varied in particle sizes and peNDF through alteration of the theoretical cut length of rice straw (10, 20, 40 and 80 mm, respectively). Dietary peNDF contents of four diets were 17.4, 20.9, 22.5 and 25.4%, respectively. Results showed that increasing particle size of rice straw and dietary peNDF significantly affected the particle size distributions of digesta in rumen, duodenum and ileum, except feces. However, increasing particle size of rice straw and peNDF did not affected N metabolism in goats, except the increased apparent N digestibility in rumen and large intestine, and the decreased apparent N digestibility in small intestine. Furthermore, increasing particle size of rice straw and peNDF showed little influence on the profile of blood biochemical parameters, microbial AA composition and intestinal AA digestibility in goats.
21269485	Plant glycine-rich RNA binding proteins have been implicated to have roles in diverse abiotic stresses. E. coli M15 cells transformed with full-length rice glycine-rich RNA binding protein4 (OsGR-RBP4), truncated rice glycine-rich RNA binding protein4 (OsGR-RBP4ΔC) and rice FK506 binding protein (OsFKBP20) were analyzed for growth profiles using both broth and solid media. Expression of OsGR-RBP4 and OsGR-RBP4ΔC proteins caused specific, inhibitory effect on growth of recombinant M15 E. coli cells. The bacterial inhibition was shown to be time and incubation temperature dependent. Removal of the inducer, IPTG, resulted in re-growth of the cells, indicating that effect of the foreign proteins was of reversible nature. Although noted at different levels of dilution factors, addition of purified Os-GR-RBP4 and OsGR-RBP4ΔC showed a similar inhibitory effect as seen with expression inside the bacterial cells. Expression of eukaryotic, stress-associated OsGR-RBP4 protein in prokaryotic E. coli M15 cells proves injurious to the growth of the bacterial cells. E. coli genome does not appear to encode for any protein that has significant homology to OsGR-RBP4 protein. Therefore, the mechanism of inhibition appears to be due to some illegitimate interactions of the OsGR-RBP4 with possibly the RNA species of the trans-host bacterial cells. The detailed mechanism underlying this inhibition remains to be worked out.
21270534	Recently we have reported the in silico identification and in depth analysis of genes potentially involve in DNA repair and recombination (DRR) in two fully sequenced higher plant genomes, Arabidopsis and rice. In spite of strong conservation of DRR gene along with all three domain of life, we found some peculiar difference in presence and function of DRR genes in plants. Beside the eukaryotic homologs, several prokaryotes specific genes were also found to be well conserved in both plant genomes. Several functionally important DRR gene duplications were found in Arabidopsis, which do not occur in rice. In spite of the fact that same DRR protein functions in different DNA repair pathways, we found that proteins belonging to the nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway were relatively more conserved than proteins needed for the other DRR pathways. Identified DRR gene were found to reside in nucleus mainly while gene drain in between nucleus and cell organelles were also found in some cases. Here, we have discussed the peculiar features of DRR genes in higher plant genomes.
21271059	Spodoptera frugiperda (Smith) is a polifagous insect of major economic impact in the western hemisphere and exhibits two strains (i.e., corn and rice) that are morphologically identical but differ in ecology, genetics and physiology. In this work we identified these strains and their respective hybrids by using a PCR-RFLP of the COI gene and PCR of the tandem region FR. Moreover, we performed a population structure analysis by using 253 larvae from Tolima, a region where S. frugiperda is a pest on corn, rice, sorghum and cotton. Corn strain was found on 42% in corn, 34% in cotton, 19% in sorghum and 0.04 % in rice and rice strain on 35% in corn, 0.06% in cotton, 0.06% in sorghum and 53% in rice, demonstrating that corn strain specificity is superior to rice strain. Hybrids between these strains were more abundant in corn. The distributions on their host plants reflect a population genetic differentiation in S. frugiperda with values of PhiPT (COI) = 0.31, P < 0.0001, PhiPT (FR) = 0.17, P < 0.0001 for all crops and PhiPT (COI) = 0.42, P < 0.01, PhiPT (FR) = 0.13, P < 0.01 for the sixteen sampled farms. The dendrograms showed two clusters representing both strains. The results obtained in this study suggest that the management of this insect must differ on each host plant, given the specialization that both strains present, particularly in corn and rice.
21272351	Heat shock response in eukaryotes is transcriptionally regulated by conserved heat shock transcription factors (Hsfs). Hsf genes are represented by a large multigene family in plants and investigation of the Hsf gene family will serve to elucidate the mechanisms by which plants respond to stress. In recent years, reports of genome-wide structural and evolutionary analysis of the entire Hsf gene family have been generated in two model plant systems, Arabidopsis and rice. Maize, an important cereal crop, has represented a model plant for genetics and evolutionary research. Although some Hsf genes have been characterized in maize, analysis of the entire Hsf gene family were not completed following Maize (B73) Genome Sequencing Project. A genome-wide analysis was carried out in the present study to identify all Hsfs maize genes. Due to the availability of complete maize genome sequences, 25 nonredundant Hsf genes, named ZmHsfs were identified. Chromosomal location, protein domain and motif organization of ZmHsfs were analyzed in maize genome. The phylogenetic relationships, gene duplications and expression profiles of ZmHsf genes were also presented in this study. Twenty-five ZmHsfs were classified into three major classes (class A, B, and C) according to their structural characteristics and phylogenetic comparisons, and class A was further subdivided into 10 subclasses. Moreover, phylogenetic analysis indicated that the orthologs from the three species (maize, Arabidopsis and rice) were distributed in all three classes, it also revealed diverse Hsf gene family expression patterns in classes and subclasses. Chromosomal/segmental duplications played a key role in Hsf gene family expansion in maize by investigation of gene duplication events. Furthermore, the transcripts of 25 ZmHsf genes were detected in the leaves by heat shock using quantitative real-time PCR. The result demonstrated that ZmHsf genes exhibit different expression levels in heat stress treatment. Overall, data obtained from our investigation contributes to a better understanding of the complexity of the maize Hsf gene family and provides the first step towards directing future experimentation designed to perform systematic analysis of the functions of the Hsf gene family.
21272414	Fruit and vegetable consumption is a focus of research and nutrition education; yet, there is no universal agreement on the meaning of 'fruits' and 'vegetables'. Our objective was to describe survey respondent perceptions about a set of foods with regard to whether the food is a fruit, vegetable or something else. Three cross-sectional studies. Two small studies involving cognitive interviewing sessions; and one large self-administered population survey. US adults in two small studies (n 55 and 80) and one large survey (n 3312), all with multiple race/ethnicities. Perceptions varied. In the survey, rice was considered a vegetable by about 20 % of respondents. In one small study, Spanish speakers were more likely to consider rice a vegetable, and Chinese speakers less likely, than were English speakers. Black beans were frequently classified as something other than vegetable or fruit. Among Hispanics, Spanish speakers were less likely than English speakers to consider beans a vegetable. Overall, tomatoes were classified as both fruit and vegetable, and these perceptions varied by race/ethnicity. Substantial disagreement among the fruit, vegetable and other food domains highlights the importance of clearly defining the desired constructs. Foods that require specific instruction include rice, dried beans, potatoes, tomatoes and fruits and vegetables in mixtures and condiments. For measurement, additional questions or explanations may be needed to clarify which foods are of interest. For communication, the global message to increase consumption of fruit and vegetables should be reinforced with specific guidance.
21272623	Recently bamboo has gained reputation as a major resource of non-wood fiber. The present study was undertaken to generate information about fiber development process in bamboo (Bambusa balcooa) using PCR-based suppressive subtractive hybridization (PCR-SSH) technique, as molecular mechanism of its fiber development is yet to be explored. SSH was performed between cDNA isolated from leaf (as driver) and internodes (as tester) of B. balcooa which indicated up-regulation of 521 ESTs. Among these 41 were contigs and 65 ESTs were singletons. On the basis of BLASTX search 307 ESTs with known functions were classified into several functional categories including transport, metabolism, information, perception and response to stimuli while others were either non-significant (120) or hypothetical proteins (94). A total of 51 out of 307 functional ESTs were found fiber specific and their global distribution among different plant species like maize, rice, cotton and Arabidopsis ESTs were determined. Net distributions and differential expression patterns of 13 important B. balcooa fiber specific cDNAs among different internodes during bamboo development were studied using RNA slot-blot, semi-quantitative RT-PCR and real time PCR. In-situ localization of mRNA transcript for few selected bamboo fiber ESTs namely, V1Bb147 (protein kinase-like protein) and V1Bb88 (myb domain-containing protein) were detected using Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope. Transcript levels of these genes exhibited an orchestral turn-over during bamboo development, suggesting their close association with fiber development, an event associated with several metabolic and physiological changes. The results clearly suggest that these genes are involved in several concerted mechanisms involving Ca(+) signaling pathway, cell wall synthesis, hormone regulation, system maintaining cell turgor pressure and cytoskeleton synthesis pathway accountable for bamboo fiber development signifying fiber development as a complex but ordered metabolic process involving differential expression of large scale fiber associated genes. This is the first report on systematic analysis of genes involved in bamboo fiber development.
21272710
21274158
21274511	A new bacterial blight recessive resistance gene xa34(t) was identified from the descendant of somatic hybridization between an aus rice cultivar (cv.) BG1222 and susceptible cv. IR24 against Chinese race V (isolate 5226). The isolate was used to test the resistance or susceptibility of F(1) progenies and reciprocal crosses of the parents. The results showed that F(1) progenies appeared susceptibility there were 128R (resistant):378S (susceptible) and 119R:375S plants in F(2) populations derived from two crosses of BG1222/IR24 and IR24/BG1222, respectively, which both calculates into a 1R:3S ratio. 320 pairs of stochastically selected SSR primers were used for genes' initial mapping. The screened results showed that two SSR markers, RM493 and RM446, found on rice chromosome 1 linked to xa34(t). Linkage analysis showed that these two markers were on both sides of xa34(t) with the genetic distances 4.29 and 3.05 cM, respectively. The other 50 SSR markers in this region were used for genes' fine mapping. The further results indicated that xa34(t) was mapped to a 1.42 cM genetic region between RM10927 and RM10591. In order to further narrow down the genomic region of xa34(t), 43 of insertion/deletion (Indel) markers (BGID1-43) were designed according to the sequences comparison between japonica and indica rice. Parents' polymorphic detection and linkage assay showed that the Indel marker BGID25 came closer to the target gene with a 0.4 cM genetic distance. A contig map corresponding to the locus was constructed based on the reference sequences aligned by the xa34(t) linked markers. Consequently, the locus of xa34(t) was defined to a 204 kb interval flanked by markers RM10929 and BGID25.
21274659	Site-specific recombination systems, such as FLP-FRT and Cre-lox, carry out precise recombination reactions on their respective targets in plant cells. This has led to the development of two important applications in plant biotechnology: marker-gene deletion and site-specific gene integration. To draw benefits of both applications, it is necessary to implement them in a single transformation process. In order to develop this new process, the present study evaluated the efficiency of FLP-FRT system for excising marker gene from the transgene locus developed by Cre-lox mediated site-specific integration in rice. Two different FLP recombinases, the wild-type FLP (FLPwt) and its thermostable derivative, FLPe, were used for the excision of marker gene flanked by FLP recombination targets (FRT). While marker excision mediated by FLPwt was undetectable, use of FLPe resulted in efficient marker excision in a number of transgenic lines, with the relative efficiency reaching up to ~100%. Thus, thermo-stability of FLP recombinase in rice cells is critical for efficient site-specific recombination, and use of FLPe offers practical solutions to FLP-FRT-based biotechnology applications in plants.
21275460	The present study was carried out to investigate the synergistic apoptotic potential of arabinoxylan rice bran (MGN-3/Biobran) and curcumin (turmeric) on human multiple myeloma (MM) cell line U266 , in vitro. U266 cells were cultured with MGN-3 (50 or 100μg/ml) and curcumin (2.5-10μM) for 3 days. The effects of MGN-3 and curcumin on the growth and survival of the U266 cells were determined by trypan blue, MTT assay, flow cytometry analysis of cancer cell cycle, and apoptosis. Expression of proapoptotic Bax, and antiapoptotic Bcl2 was determined by Western blot analysis. Treatment with MGN-3 alone or curcumin alone caused a dose-dependent inhibition in the proliferation of U266 cells. However, a synergistic effect was noticed post-treatment with both agents that maximized at 100μg/ml MGN-3 plus 10μM curcumin. This synergy was characterized by an 87% decrease in cell number and a 2.6 fold increase in the percentage of apoptotic U266 cells. Cell cycle analysis showed a 53% decrease in the percentage of cells in the G0-G1 phase treated with MGN-3 and curcumin (from 36% to 17%). Analysis of the expression of the pro and antiapoptotic molecules Bax and Bcl-2 revealed synergistic effects of these agents, as the expression of Bcl-2 was decreased and Bax was increased. This resulted in a cellular microenvironment favorable for apoptosis. We conclude that MGN-3 and curcumin synergize in the induction of U266 cell apoptosis. This data may establish the foundation for in vivo studies that could have therapeutic implications.
21276235	The role of diet in India's rapidly progressing chronic disease epidemic is unclear; moreover, diet may vary considerably across North-South regions. The India Health Study was a multicenter study of men and women aged 35-69, who provided diet, lifestyle, and medical histories, as well as blood pressure, fasting blood, urine, and anthropometric measurements. In each region (Delhi, n=824; Mumbai, n=743; Trivandrum, n=2,247), we identified two dietary patterns with factor analysis. In multiple logistic regression models adjusted for age, gender, education, income, marital status, religion, physical activity, tobacco, alcohol, and total energy intake, we investigated associations between regional dietary patterns and abdominal adiposity, hypertension, diabetes, and dyslipidemia. Across the regions, more than 80% of the participants met the criteria for abdominal adiposity and 10 to 28% of participants were considered diabetic. In Delhi, the "fruit and dairy" dietary pattern was positively associated with abdominal adiposity [highest versus lowest tertile, multivariate-adjusted OR and 95% CI: 2.32 (1.03-5.23); Ptrend=0.008] and hypertension [2.20 (1.47-3.31); Ptrend<0.0001]. In Trivandrum, the "pulses and rice" pattern was inversely related to diabetes [0.70 (0.51-0.95); Ptrend=0.03] and the "snacks and sweets" pattern was positively associated with abdominal adiposity [2.05 (1.34-3.14); Ptrend=0.03]. In Mumbai, the "fruit and vegetable" pattern was inversely associated with hypertension [0.63 (0.40-0.99); Ptrend=0.05] and the "snack and meat" pattern appeared to be positively associated with abdominal adiposity. Cardio-metabolic risk factors were highly prevalent in this population. Across all regions, we found little evidence of a Westernized diet; however, dietary patterns characterized by animal products, fried snacks, or sweets appeared to be positively associated with abdominal adiposity. Conversely, more traditional diets in the Southern regions were inversely related to diabetes and hypertension. Continued investigation of diet, as well as other environmental and biological factors, will be needed to better understand the risk profile in this population and potential means of prevention.
21276262	Small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) are regarded as important regulators in prokaryotes and play essential roles in diverse cellular processes. Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae (Xoo) is an important plant pathogenic bacterium which causes serious bacterial blight of rice. However, little is known about the number, genomic distribution and biological functions of sRNAs in Xoo. Here, we performed a systematic screen to identify sRNAs in the Xoo strain PXO99. A total of 850 putative non-coding RNA sequences originated from intergenic and gene antisense regions were identified by cloning, of which 63 were also identified as sRNA candidates by computational prediction, thus were considered as Xoo sRNA candidates. Northern blot hybridization confirmed the size and expression of 6 sRNA candidates and other 2 cloned small RNA sequences, which were then added to the sRNA candidate list. We further examined the expression profiles of the eight sRNAs in an hfq deletion mutant and found that two of them showed drastically decreased expression levels, and another exhibited an Hfq-dependent transcript processing pattern. Deletion mutants were obtained for seven of the Northern confirmed sRNAs, but none of them exhibited obvious phenotypes. Comparison of the proteomic differences between three of the ΔsRNA mutants and the wild-type strain by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) analysis showed that these sRNAs are involved in multiple physiological and biochemical processes. We experimentally verified eight sRNAs in a genome-wide screen and uncovered three Hfq-dependent sRNAs in Xoo. Proteomics analysis revealed Xoo sRNAs may take part in various metabolic processes. Taken together, this work represents the first comprehensive screen and functional analysis of sRNAs in rice pathogenic bacteria and facilitates future studies on sRNA-mediated regulatory networks in this important phytopathogen.
21276645	Fish consumption is considered the primary pathway for MeHg (MeHg) exposure; however, MeHg exposure also occurs through rice ingestion. Rice is grown in an aquatic environment and although documented MeHg concentrations in rice are lower compared to fish tissue, human exposures exceed international guidelines in some regions where rice is a staple food and rice MeHg levels are elevated. Studies concerning human health exposure to MeHg should also include populations where maternal MeHg exposure occurs through ingestion of rice. Rice does not contain long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids, which are associated with confounding developmental outcomes in offspring. Rice is also a staple food for more than half the world's population; therefore, it is critical to investigate the potential health risks of maternal ingestion of rice to the developing fetus, the most susceptible population to the deleterious effects of MeHg. Data concerning MeHg in rice are reviewed and micronutrients in rice are discussed.
21277005	Cadmium (Cd) is a non-essential element for human nutrition and is an agricultural soil contaminant. Cadmium solubility in paddy soils affects Cd accumulation in the grain of rice. This is a human health risk, exacerbated by the fact that rice grains are deficient in iron (Fe) and zinc (Zn) for human nutrition. To find ways of limiting this potential risk, we investigated factors influencing Cd solubility relative to Fe and Zn during pre-harvest drainage of paddy soils, in which soil oxidation is accompanied by the grain-filling stage of rice growth. This was simulated in temperature-controlled "reaction cell" experiments by first excluding oxygen to incubate soil suspensions anaerobically, then inducing aerobic conditions. In treatments without sulfur addition, the ratios of Cd:Fe and Cd:Zn in solution increased during the aerobic phase while Cd concentrations were unaffected and the Fe and Zn concentrations decreased. However, in treatments with added sulfur (as sulfate), up to 34 % of sulfur (S) was precipitated as sulfide minerals during the anaerobic phase and the Cd:Fe and Cd:Zn ratios in solution during the aerobic phase were lower than for treatments without S addition. When S was added, Cd solubility decreased whereas Fe and Zn were unaffected. When soil was spiked with Zn the Cd:Zn ratio was lower in solution during the aerobic phase, due to higher Zn concentrations. Decreased Cd:Fe and Cd:Zn ratios during the grain filling stage could potentially limit Cd enrichment in paddy rice grain due to competitive ion effects for root uptake.
21277082	This paper deals with removal of copper ions from solution by raw rice husk (RRH) and expanding rice husk (ERH). Different column design parameters like bed depth, flow rate and initial copper concentration were investigated. It was found that the equilibrium uptake (q(eq(exp))) of the ERH and RRH increased with increase in initial copper concentration but decreased with increase in flow rate and bed depth, respectively. The higher adsorption capacity and longer breakthrough time were observed for ERH in comparison with RRH, under the same conditions. Compared to coconut-shell activated carbon (C-AC), ERH was also found more effective in removing Cu(2+). 0.01 mol L(-1) HCl solution was used for desorption of column which was prior to absorb copper ion, and 0.01 mol L(-1) NaOH solution was used for re-activation. Column regeneration and reuse studies were conducted for adsorption-desorption cycle.
21277362	Although a large number of genes are expected to correctly solve a phylogenetic relationship, inconsistent gene tree topologies have been observed. This conflicting evidence in gene tree topologies, known as gene tree discordance, becomes increasingly important as advanced sequencing technologies produce an enormous amount of sequence information for phylogenomic studies among closely related species. Here, we aim to characterize the gene tree discordance of the Asian cultivated rice Oryza sativa and its progenitor, O. rufipogon, which will be an ideal case study of gene tree discordance. Using genome and cDNA sequences of O. sativa and O. rufipogon, we have conducted the first in-depth analyses of gene tree discordance in Asian rice. Our comparison of full-length cDNA sequences of O. rufipogon with the genome sequences of the japonica and indica cultivars of O. sativa revealed that 60% of the gene trees showed a topology consistent with the expected one, whereas the remaining genes supported significantly different topologies. Moreover, the proportions of the topologies deviated significantly from expectation, suggesting at least one hybridization event between the two subgroups of O. sativa, japonica and indica. In fact, a genome-wide alignment between japonica and indica indicated that significant portions of the indica genome are derived from japonica. In addition, literature concerning the pedigree of the indica cultivar strongly supported the hybridization hypothesis. Our molecular evolutionary analyses deciphered complicated evolutionary processes in closely related species. They also demonstrated the importance of gene tree discordance in the era of high-speed DNA sequencing.
21277379	Aspergillus oryzae is a filamentous fungus that has arisen through the ancient domestication of Aspergillus flavus for making traditional oriental foods and beverages. In the many centuries A. oryzae has been used for fermenting the starch in rice to simple sugars, it has undergone selection for increased secretion of starch-degrading enzymes. In particular, all A. oryzae strains investigated thus far have two or more copies of a gene encoding α-amylase, whereas A. flavus has only one. Here we investigate the duplications leading to these copies in three A. oryzae strains. We find evidence of at least three separate duplications of α-amylase, an example of parallel evolution in a micro-organism under artificial selection. At least two of these duplications appear to be associated with activity of transposable elements of the Tc1/mariner class. Both involve a 9.1 kb element that terminates in inverted repeats, encodes a putative transposase and another putative protein of unknown function, and contains an unusual arrangement of four short internal imperfect repeats. Although "unusual Mariners" of this size have previously been identified in A. oryzae, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus nidulans, this is the first evidence we know of that at least some of them are active in modern times and that their activity can contribute to beneficial genetic changes.
21278	The pH-stat titration of aluminum hydroxide gel was evaluated and was affected by pH, temperature, concentration, and ionic strength. Control of these parameters resulted in a highly sensitive and reproducible in vitro antacid test. The utility of the pH-stat test was illustrated by monitoring the aging of several carbonate-containing aluminum hydroxide gels and by comparing the antacid properties as measured by the pH-stat titration, the acid-consuming capacity, the Rossett-Rice test, and the test proposed by the food and Drug Administration Drug Evaluation Panel. The pH-stat titration also was useful for relatively nonreactive aluminum hydroxide gels. The use of sodium fluoride as the reaction medium extended the capability of the pH-stat titration to monitor the aging of chloride-containing gels. The pH-stat titrigram was interpreted in terms of a previously published polymer model of the structure of a chloride-containing aluminum hydroxide gel. The acid reactivity of relatively nonreactive gel is believed to be due totally to the chemical neutralization of acid, because the milliequivalents of aluminum ion appearing in solution is the same as the milliequivalents of acid neutralized throughout the ph-stat titration.
21278127	In the rice (Oryza sativa) endosperm, storage proteins are synthesized on the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER), in which prolamins are sorted to protein bodies (PBs) called type-I PB (PB-I). Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) family oxidoreductase PDIL2;3, an ortholog of human P5, contains a conserved structural disulfide in the redox-inactive thioredoxin-like (TRX) domain and was efficiently targeted to the surface of PB-I in a redox active site-dependent manner, whereas PDIL1;1, an ortholog of human PDI, was localized in the ER lumen. Complementation analyses using PDIL1;1 knockout esp2 mutant indicated that the a and a' TRX domains of PDIL1;1 exhibited similar redox activities and that PDIL2;3 was unable to perform the PDIL1;1 functions. PDIL2;3 knockdown inhibited the accumulation of Cys-rich 10-kD prolamin (crP10) in the core of PB-I. Conversely, crP10 knockdown dispersed PDIL2;3 into the ER lumen. Glutathione S-transferase-PDIL2;3 formed a stable tetramer when it was expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant PDIL2;3 tetramer facilitated α-globulin(C79F) mutant protein to form nonnative intermolecular disulfide bonds in vitro. These results indicate that PDIL2;3 and PDIL1;1 are not functionally redundant in sulfhydryl oxidations of structurally diverse storage proteins and play distinct roles in PB development. We discuss PDIL2;3-dependent and PDIL2;3-independent oxidation pathways that sustain disulfide bonds of crP10 in PB-I.
21278313	Prostate cancer is a slowly developing but very common cancer in males that may be amenable to preventive strategies that are not toxic. Chinese red yeast rice (RYR), a food herb made by fermenting Monascus purpureus Went yeast on white rice, contains a mixture of eight different monacolins that inhibit cholesterogenesis in addition to red pigments with antioxidant properties. Monacolin K is identical to lovastatin (LV), but LV unlike RYR can be used in individuals intolerant to statins due to muscle pain. Both LV and RYR inhibit de novo cholesterogenesis, which is critical to the growth of tumor cells. Long-term use of statin drugs has been associated with a reduced risk of prostate cancer. We have previously shown that RYR inhibited androgen-dependent and androgen receptor-overexpressing androgen-independent prostate cancer cell proliferation in vitro. This study was designed to determine whether RYR and LV inhibit prostate tumor growth in SCID mice. RYR significantly reduced tumor volumes of androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate xenograft tumors compared with animals receiving vehicle alone (P < 0.05). Inhibition by RYR was greater than that observed with LV at the dose found in RYR, showing that other compounds in RYR contributed to the antiproliferative effect. There was a significant correlation of tumor volume to serum cholesterol (P < 0.001). RYR decreased gene expression of androgen synthesizing enzymes (HSD3B2, AKR1C3, and SRD5A1) in both type of tumors (P < 0.05). Clinical studies of RYR for prostate cancer prevention in the increasing population of men undergoing active surveillance should be considered.
21278385	We previously demonstrated that the rice kinesin K16, which belongs to the kinesin-7 subfamily, has unique enzymatic properties and atomic structure within key functional regions. In this study, we focused on a novel rice plant kinesin, K23, which also belongs to the kinesin-7 subfamily. The biochemical characterization of the K23 motor domain (K23MD) was studied and compared with the rice kinesin K16 and other related kinesins. K23 exhibits ∼45-fold (1.3 Pi mol(-1) site mol(-1) s(-1)) lower microtubule-dependent ATPase activity than conventional kinesins, whereas its affinity for microtubules is comparable with conventional kinesins. MgADP-free K23 is unstable compared with the unusually stable MgADP-free K16MD. The enzymatic properties of K23MD are somewhat different from those of K16. We used a fluorescent ATP analogue 2'(3')-O-(N'-methylanthraniloyl)-ATP (mant-ATP) for the kinetic characterization of K23. The fluorescence of mant-ATP was not significantly altered during its hydrolysis by K23. However, significant fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between mant-ATP and W21 in the motor domain was observed. The kinetic study using FRET revealed that K23 has unique kinetic characteristics when compared with other kinesins.
21279199	The potential energy surfaces (PES) for the reaction of the C(2)H radical with 1-butyne (C(4)H(6)) have been studied using the CBS-QB3 method. Density functional B3LYP/cc-pVTZ and M06-2X/6-311++G(d,p) calculations have also been performed to analyze the reaction energetics. For detailed theoretical calculation on the total reaction mechanism, the initial association reactions on more and less substituted C atoms of 1-butyne are treated separately followed by a variational transition state theory (VTST) calculation to obtain reaction rates. The successive unimolecular reactions from the association reaction complexes are subjected to Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) calculations for reaction rate constants and product branching ratios. The calculated rate constants in the temperature range 70-295 K for both the association reactions are found to be highly temperature dependent at low temperatures, which is contrary to the experimental findings of temperature independent association rates. We have explained this observation with the help of variational nature of the transition states, and we found a "loose" transition state at low temperatures. The calculated product branching ratios for the unimolecular reactions generally agree with the available experimental data, although some channels show a significant method dependency and therefore the correlation with experiment is lost to some extent. Our detailed reaction energetics calculations confirm that the C(2)H + C(4)H(6) reaction proceeds without an entrance barrier and leads to the important products ethynylallene + CH(3), 1,3-hexadiyne + H, 3,4-hexadiene-1-yne + H, 2-ethynyl-1,3-butadiene + H, 3,4-dimethylenecyclobut-1-ene + H and fulvene + H exothermic by 25-75 kcal mol(-1), with strong dependence of the product distribution on the association mode of C(2)H with C(4)H(6), making these reactions fast under low temperature conditions of Titan's atmosphere. Therefore this study can provide a detailed picture of the complex hydrocarbon formation mechanism in the upper atmosphere.
21279627	Samples of Basmati rice grain, soil and water were collected, from IPM and non-IPM field trials conducted at four regions of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in India, for pesticide residue analysis. Out of 45 soil samples collected, only four non-IPM samples indicated the presence of chlorpyrifos and endosulfan in the range of ND (<0.001) to 0.05 mg/kg. Carbendazim used at two locations of Dehradun and Kaithal was found below detectable limit (<0.05 mg/kg) in both IPM and non-IPM trials. Out of total 22 samples of water analyzed, chlorpyriphos was detected in samples from Kaithal and Pant Nagar in the range 0.003-0.006 μL/L, alpha -endosulfan isomer was detected in the range 0.005-0.03 μL/L and the beta-isomer in the range 0.005-0.02 μL/L in sample from Pant Nagar and Kaithal. The residues in all the grain sample of paddy were below detectable limit (<0.001-0.05 mg/kg). The insecticides applied in IPM as well as non-IPM trials were found to be below maximum residue level (MRL).
21280727	We investigated the dynamics of isomerization and multi-channel dissociation of propenal (CH(2)CHCHO), methyl ketene (CH(3)CHCO), hydroxyl propadiene (CH(2)CH(2)CHOH), and hydroxyl cyclopropene (cyclic-C(3)H(3)-OH) in the ground potential-energy surface using quantum-chemical calculations. Optimized structures and vibrational frequencies of molecular species were computed with method B3LYP∕6-311G(d,p). Total energies of molecules at optimized structures were computed at the CCSD(T)∕6-311+G(3df,2p) level of theory. We established the potential-energy surface for decomposition to CH(2)CHCO + H, CH(2)CH + HCO, CH(2)CH(2)∕CH(3)CH + CO, CHCH∕CH(2)C + H(2)CO, CHCCHO∕CH(2)CCO + H(2), CHCH + CO + H(2), CH(3) + HCCO, CH(2)CCH + OH, and CH(2)CC∕cyclic-C(3)H(2) + H(2)O. Microcanonical rate coefficients of various reactions of trans-propenal with internal energies 148 and 182 kcal mol(-1) were calculated using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus and Variational transition state theories. Product branching ratios were derivable using numerical integration of kinetic master equations and the steady-state approximation. The concerted three-body dissociation of trans-propenal to fragments C(2)H(2) + CO + H(2) is the prevailing channel in present calculations. In contrast, C(3)H(3)O + H, C(2)H(3) + HCO and C(2)H(4) + CO were identified as major channels in the photolysis of trans-propenal. The discrepancy between calculations and experiments in product branching ratios indicates that the three major photodissociation channels occur mainly on an excited potential-energy surface whereas the other channels occur mainly on the ground potential-energy surface. This work provides profound insight in the mechanisms of isomerization and multichannel dissociation of the system C(3)H(4)O.
21281270	GSTZs [Zeta class GSTs (glutathione transferases)] are multifunctional enzymes that belong to a highly conserved subfamily of soluble GSTs found in species ranging from fungi and plants to animals. GSTZs are known to function as MAAIs [MAA (maleylacetoacetate) isomerases], which play a role in tyrosine catabolism by catalysing the isomerization of MAA to FAA (fumarylacetoacetate). As tyrosine metabolism in plants differs from animals, the significance of GSTZ/MAAI is unclear. In rice (Oryza sativa L.), a major QTL (quantitative trait locus) for seedling cold tolerance has been fine mapped to a region containing the genes OsGSTZ1 and OsGSTZ2. Sequencing of tolerant (ssp. japonica cv. M-202) and sensitive (ssp. indica cv. IR50) cultivars revealed two SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) in OsGSTZ2 that result in amino acid differences (I99V and N184I). Recombinant OsGSTZ2 containing the Val99 residue found in IR50 had significantly reduced activity on MAA and DCA (dichloroacetic acid), but the Ile184 residue had no effect. The distribution of the SNP (c.295A>G) among various rice accessions indicates a significant association with chilling sensitivity in rice seedlings. The results of the present study show that naturally occurring OsGSTZ2 isoforms differ in their enzymatic properties, which may contribute to the differential response to chilling stress generally exhibited by the two major rice subspecies.
21281657	Cell wall deposition, biosynthesis of steroid hormones, and maintenance of membrane composition and integrity, are some of the crucial functions of sterols in plants. Followed by their synthesis in the endoplasmic reticulum, the sterols accumulate in the plasma membrane. The concept of sterol trafficking in plant cell is not well understood. The oxysterol binding proteins are implicated in sterol transport in non-plant systems. In the study, the oxysterol binding proteins in Arabidopsis and rice are described and classified. The Arabidopsis genome encodes 12 oxysterol binding proteins-related proteins (ORPs) as compared to 6 oxysterol binding proteins (OSBPs/ORPs) in rice. The protein alignment studies reveal that amino acid sequences for oxysterol binding proteins are relatively well conserved in Arabidopsis and rice. The rice OSBPs are classified based on their phylogenetic relationship with Arabidopsis ORPs. The sequence LOGO built on LOC_Os03g16690 indicated presence of fingerprint region of amino acids "EQVSHHPP" for Arabidopsis and rice OSBPs/ORPs. The organization of pleckstrin homology domain is identified in several OSBPs/ORPs in Arabidopsis and rice. The Arabidopsis oligonucleotide array data is explored to understand the expression patterns of ORPs under 17 different experimental conditions. The analysis showed the expression of ORPs in Arabidopsis is necessarily under the control of biotic stress, chemical, elicitor, hormone, light intensity, abiotic stress, and temperature conditions. The linear mean signal values for Arabidopsis ORPs revealed their relative expression patterns in different developmental stages. The genes for ORP3C and ORP3B are highly expressed in all developmental stages that were analyzed. The present study thus indicates crucial functional role of the individual members of this gene family in different environmental stress conditions.
21282025	One hundred and fifty-six strains isolated from corn (Zea mays L.), forage paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) silages prepared on dairy farms were screened, of which 110 isolates were considered to be lactic acid bacteria (LAB) according to their Gram-positive and catalase-negative characteristics and, mainly, the lactic acid metabolic products. These isolates were divided into eight groups (A-H) based on the following properties: morphological and biochemical characteristics, γ-aminobutyric acid production capacity, and 16S rRNA gene sequences. They were identified as Weissella cibaria (36.4%), Weissella confusa (9.1%), Leuconostoc citreum (5.3%), Leuconostoc lactis (4.9%), Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides (8.0%), Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis (4.5%), Lactobacillus paraplantarum (4.5%) and Lactobacillus plantarum (27.3%). W. cibaria and W. confusa were mainly present in corn silages, and L. plantarum was dominant on sorghum and forage paddy rice silages, while L. pseudomesenteroides, L. plantarum and L. paraplantarum were the dominant species in alfalfa silage. The corn, sorghum and forage paddy rice silages were well preserved with lower pH values and ammonia-N concentrations, but had higher lactic acid content, while the alfalfa silage had relatively poor quality with higher pH values and ammonia-N concentrations, and lower lactic acid content. The present study confirmed the diversity of LAB species inhabiting silages. It showed that the differing natural populations of LAB on these silages might influence fermentation quality. These results will enable future research on the relationship between LAB species and silage fermentation quality, and will enhance the screening of appropriate inoculants aimed at improving such quality.
21282525	In flowering plants, male meiosis produces four microspores, which develop into pollen grains and are released by anther dehiscence to pollinate female gametophytes. The molecular and cellular mechanisms regulating male meiosis in rice (Oryza sativa) remain poorly understood. Here, we describe a rice pollen semi-sterility1 (pss1) mutant, which displays reduced spikelet fertility (~40%) primarily caused by reduced pollen viability (~50% viable), and defective anther dehiscence. Map-based molecular cloning revealed that PSS1 encodes a kinesin-1-like protein. PSS1 is broadly expressed in various organs, with highest expression in panicles. Furthermore, PSS1 expression is significantly upregulated during anther development and peaks during male meiosis. The PSS1-green fluorescent protein fusion is predominantly localized in the cytoplasm of rice protoplasts. Substitution of a conserved Arg (Arg-289) to His in the PSS1 motor domain nearly abolishes its microtubule-stimulated ATPase activity. Consistent with this, lagging chromosomes and chromosomal bridges were found at anaphase I and anaphase II of male meiosis in the pss1 mutant. Together, our results suggest that PSS1 defines a novel member of the kinesin-1 family essential for male meiotic chromosomal dynamics, male gametogenesis, and anther dehiscence in rice.
21283626	Soluble NSF attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins play a central role in membrane fusion and vesicle transport of eukaryotic organisms including fungi. We previously identified MoSce22 as a homolog of Saccharomyces cerevisiae SNARE protein Sec22 to be involved in growth, stress resistance, and pathogenicity of Magnaporthe oryzae. Here, we provide evidences that MoVam7, an ortholog of S. cerevisiae SNARE protein Vam7, exerts conserved functions in vacuolar morphogenesis and functions in pathogenicity of M. oryzae. Staining with neutral red and FM4-64 revealed the presence of abnormal fragmented vacuoles and an absence of the Spitzenkörper body in the ΔMovam7 mutant. The ΔMovam7 mutant also exhibited reduced vegetative growth, poor conidiation, and failure to produce the infection structure appressorium. Additionally, treatments with cell wall perturbing agents indicated weakened cell walls and altered distributions of the cell wall component chitin. Furthermore, the ΔMovam7 mutant showed a reduced accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the hyphal apex and failed to cause diseases on the rice plant. In summary, our studies indicate that MoVam7, like MoSec22, is a component of the SNARE complex whose functions in vacuole assembly also underlies the growth, conidiation, appressorium formation, and pathogenicity of M. oryzae. Further studies of MoVam7, MoSec22, and additional members of the SNARE complex are likely to reveal critical mechanisms in vacuole formation and membrane trafficking that is linked to fungal pathogenicity.
21283781	Surface recognition and penetration are among the most critical plant infection processes in foliar pathogens. In Magnaporthe oryzae, the Pmk1 MAP kinase regulates appressorium formation and penetration. Its orthologs also are known to be required for various plant infection processes in other phytopathogenic fungi. Although a number of upstream components of this important pathway have been characterized, the upstream sensors for surface signals have not been well characterized. Pmk1 is orthologous to Kss1 in yeast that functions downstream from Msb2 and Sho1 for filamentous growth. Because of the conserved nature of the Pmk1 and Kss1 pathways and reduced expression of MoMSB2 in the pmk1 mutant, in this study we functionally characterized the MoMSB2 and MoSHO1 genes. Whereas the Momsb2 mutant was significantly reduced in appressorium formation and virulence, the Mosho1 mutant was only slightly reduced. The Mosho1 Momsb2 double mutant rarely formed appressoria on artificial hydrophobic surfaces, had a reduced Pmk1 phosphorylation level, and was nonresponsive to cutin monomers. However, it still formed appressoria and caused rare, restricted lesions on rice leaves. On artificial hydrophilic surfaces, leaf surface waxes and primary alcohols-but not paraffin waxes and alkanes- stimulated appressorium formation in the Mosho1 Momsb2 mutant, but more efficiently in the Momsb2 mutant. Furthermore, expression of a dominant active MST7 allele partially suppressed the defects of the Momsb2 mutant. These results indicate that, besides surface hydrophobicity and cutin monomers, primary alcohols, a major component of epicuticular leaf waxes in grasses, are recognized by M. oryzae as signals for appressorium formation. Our data also suggest that MoMsb2 and MoSho1 may have overlapping functions in recognizing various surface signals for Pmk1 activation and appressorium formation. While MoMsb2 is critical for sensing surface hydrophobicity and cutin monomers, MoSho1 may play a more important role in recognizing rice leaf waxes.
21284570	Public concern about radiation protection of the environment and non-human species is increasing. The potential impact of chronic gamma radiation on the bacterial community in a rice paddy ecosystem was investigated. Paddy field microcosm samples were continuously exposed at a dose rate of 1 Gy day(-1) for five days after which the bacterial community structures in them were compared with those of unirradiated control samples by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of the 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) gene. Dissolved ions in ponding waters of the microcosm samples were determined by ion chromatography. The DGGE band profiles were clearly different between the control and exposure samples. Sequencing of selected DGGE bands revealed that a specific species of the genus Clostridium and of the genus Massilia were grown under radiation exposure. Additionally, the concentrations of sulphate ion in the ponding water of the microcosm samples increased under radiation exposure. Concentrations of Na(+), Ca(2+), and F(-) inversely decreased. The data presented suggest that chronic gamma radiation affects the bacterial community structure and material cycles in the rice paddy ecosystem.
21284756	Oryza sativa (rice) flowers in response to photoperiod, and is a facultative short-day (SD) plant. Under SD conditions, flowering is promoted through the activation of FT-like genes (rice florigens) by Heading date 1 (Hd1, a rice CONSTANS homolog) and Early heading date 1 (Ehd1, with no ortholog in the Arabidopsis genome). On the other hand, under long-day (LD) conditions, flowering is delayed by the repressive function of Hd1 on FT-like genes and by downregulation of Ehd1 by the flowering repressor Ghd7 - a unique pathway in rice. We report here that an early heading date 3 (ehd3) mutant flowered later than wild-type plants, particularly under LD conditions, regardless of the Hd1-deficient background. Map-based cloning revealed that Ehd3 encodes a nuclear protein that contains a putative transcriptional regulator with two plant homeodomain (PHD) finger motifs. To identify the role of Ehd3 within the gene regulatory network for rice flowering, we compared the transcript levels of genes related to rice flowering in wild-type plants and ehd3 mutants. Increased transcription of Ghd7 under LD conditions and reduced transcription of downstream Ehd1 and FT-like genes in the ehd3 mutants suggested that Ehd3 normally functions as an LD downregulator of Ghd7 in floral induction. Furthermore, Ehd3 ghd7 plants flowered earlier and show higher Ehd1 transcript levels than ehd3 ghd7 plants, suggesting a Ghd7-independent role of Ehd3 in the upregulation of Ehd1. Our results demonstrate that the PHD-finger gene Ehd3 acts as a promoter in the unique genetic pathway responsible for photoperiodic flowering in rice.
21284800	Drought is the major environmental factor limiting crop productivity worldwide. We hypothesized that it is possible to enhance drought tolerance by delaying stress-induced senescence through the stress-induced synthesis of cytokinins in crop-plants. We generated transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) plants expressing an isopentenyltransferase (IPT) gene driven by P(SARK) , a stress- and maturation-induced promoter. Plants were tested for drought tolerance at two yield-sensitive developmental stages: pre- and post-anthesis. Under both treatments, the transgenic rice plants exhibited delayed response to stress with significantly higher grain yield (GY) when compared to wild-type plants. Gene expression analysis revealed a significant shift in expression of hormone-associated genes in the transgenic plants. During water-stress (WS), P(SARK)::IPT plants displayed increased expression of brassinosteroid-related genes and repression of jasmonate-related genes. Changes in hormone homeostasis were associated with resource(s) mobilization during stress. The transgenic plants displayed differential expression of genes encoding enzymes associated with hormone synthesis and hormone-regulated pathways. These changes and associated hormonal crosstalk resulted in the modification of source/sink relationships and a stronger sink capacity of the P(SARK)::IPT plants during WS. As a result, the transgenic plants had higher GY with improved quality (nutrients and starch content).
2128670	A survey for intestinal parasites was carried out in a homogenous rice cultivation area, in which people had equal opportunities of acquiring the local endemic helminthiases, including schistosomiasis mansoni. The numbers of Schistosoma mansoni eggs excreted in faeces were counted. Infections with S. mansoni, Ascaris lumbricoides, ancylostomes and Trichuris trichiura were not randomly distributed, but were correlated, depending on the species of worms present. The S. mansoni egg counts were positively correlated with ancylostome infection but inversely correlated with A. lumbricoides and T. trichiura. Patients with schistosomiasis associated with 2 other helminth infections excreted more S. mansoni eggs than the patients with S. mansoni plus only one other helminth infection.
21286901	Black rice is rich in anthocyanin and is expected to have more healthful dietary potential than white rice. We assessed expression of anthocyanin in black rice cultivars using a newly designed 135 K Oryza sativa microarray. A total of 12,673 genes exhibited greater than 2.0-fold up- or down-regulation in comparisons between three rice cultivars and three seed developmental stages. The 137 transcription factor genes found to be associated with production of anthocyanin pigment were classified into 10 groups. In addition, 17 unknown and hypothetical genes were identified from comparisons between the rice cultivars. Finally, 15 out of the 17 candidate genes were verified by RT-PCR analysis. Among the genes, nine were up-regulated and six exhibited down-regulation. These genes likely play either a regulatory role in anthocyanin biosynthesis or are related to anthocyanin metabolism during flavonoid biosynthesis. While these genes require further validation, the results here underline the potential use of the new microarray and provide valuable insight into anthocyanin pigment production in rice.
21288266	Inorganic phosphate (Pi) is one of the most limiting nutrients for plant growth in both natural and agricultural contexts. Pi-deficiency leads to a strong decrease in shoot growth, and triggers extensive changes at the developmental, biochemical and gene expression levels that are presumably aimed at improving the acquisition of this nutrient and sustaining growth. The Arabidopsis thaliana PHO1 gene has previously been shown to participate in the transport of Pi from roots to shoots, and the null pho1 mutant has all the hallmarks associated with shoot Pi deficiency. We show here that A. thaliana plants with a reduced expression of PHO1 in roots have shoot growth similar to Pi-sufficient plants, despite leaves being strongly Pi deficient. Furthermore, the gene expression profile normally triggered by Pi deficiency is suppressed in plants with low PHO1 expression. At comparable levels of shoot Pi supply, the wild type reduces shoot growth but maintains adequate shoot vacuolar Pi content, whereas the PHO1 underexpressor maintains maximal growth with strongly depleted Pi reserves. Expression of the Oryza sativa (rice) PHO1 ortholog in the pho1 null mutant also leads to plants that maintain normal growth and suppression of the Pi-deficiency response, despite the low shoot Pi. These data show that it is possible to unlink low shoot Pi content with the responses normally associated with Pi deficiency through the modulation of PHO1 expression or activity. These data also show that reduced shoot growth is not a direct consequence of Pi deficiency, but is more likely to be a result of extensive gene expression reprogramming triggered by Pi deficiency.
21289511	The effect of white and black rice consumption on lipid profile, hydroperoxides, thiobarbituric reactive substances and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL) induced by hypercholesterolemia was investigated in 24 male rabbits; a purified normal diet (NC, n = 6), a high fat/cholesterol (1.0 g/100 g) diet (PC group, n = 6), a high fat/cholesterol diet with 25 g/100 g white ground rice (PCWR group, n = 6), 25 g/100 g black ground rice (PCBR group, n = 6) for 10 weeks. Blood samples were collected for lipid measurements. Results indicate that serum high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol was higher (P < 0.05) in the PCBR compared with the PC and PCWR groups. Hydroperoxides and thiobarbituric reactive substances were significantly lower (P < 0.05) in the PCBR compared with PCWR and PC groups. Cyanidin-3-glucoside (Cy-3-Glu) and peonidin-3-glucoside have been tested in vitro against copper-mediated low-density lipoprotein. Cy-3-Glu was excelled peonidin-3-glucoside by increasing the lag time of NC from 80 to 500 minutes in the presence of 2.0 μM of Cy-3-Glu. Hierarchically, black rice rabbits group was given the best results compared with other groups. The results may be indicating to a suggested mechanism (anthocyanins protection; Cy-3-Glu) of the cardioprotective effect of black rice.
21291717
21292469	Cyclodextrin (CD) is widely used in the pharmaceutical and nutritional fields to form an inclusion complex with lipophilic compounds for the improvement of their aqueous solubility, stability and diffusibility under physiological conditions. In this study, we investigated the effect of the γ-tocotrienol (γT3) inclusion complex with CD on its oral bioavailability. Five-week-old C57BL6 mice were fed a vitamin E-free diet for 28 days, followed by the oral administration of 2.79 mg of γT3-rich fraction (TRF) extracted from rice bran or the equivalent dose (14.5 mg) of a CD inclusion complex with TRF (TRF/CD). The levels of γT3 in sequentially collected plasma were determined by LC-MS/MS. The pharmacokinetic study revealed that the plasma concentrations of γT3 were increased and peaked at 6 or 3 h after the oral administration of TRF or TRF/CD, respectively (C(max) values of 7.9±3.3 or 11.4±4.5 μM, respectively). The area under the curve of plasma γT3 concentration also showed a 1.4-fold increase in the group administered with TRF/CD compared with the TRF-only group. Furthermore, the mice that had received the TRF/CD tended to reduce the endotoxin shock induced by injection with lethal amounts of Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide, compared with the mice that had received TRF alone. Taken together, our results suggest that the CD inclusion improved γT3 bioavailability, resulting in the enhancement of γT3 physiological activity, which would be a useful approach for the nutrition delivery system.
21292821	Root aeration, arsenic (As) accumulation, and speciation in rice of 20 different genotypes with regular irrigation of water containing 0.4 mg As l(-1) were investigated. Different genotypes had different root anatomy demonstrated by entire root porosity (ranging from 12.43% to 33.21%), which was significantly correlated with radial oxygen loss (ROL) (R=0.64, P<0.01). Arsenic accumulation differed between genotypes, but there were no significant differences between Indica and Japonica subspecies, as well as paddy and upland rice. Total ROL from entire roots was correlated with metal tolerance (expressed as percentage mean of control straw biomass, R=0.69, P<0.01) among the 20 genotypes; total As concentration (R=-0.67, P<0.01) and inorganic As concentration (R=-0.47, P<0.05) in rice grains of different genotypes were negatively correlated with ROL. There were also significant genotype effects in percentage inorganic As (F=15.8, P<0.001) and percentage cacodylic acid (F=22.1, P<0.001), respectively. Root aeration of different genotypes and variation of genotypes on As accumulation and speciation would be useful for selecting genotypes to grow in areas contaminated by As.
21293375	Considerable debate surrounds the source of the apparently 'anomalous' increase of atmospheric methane concentrations since the mid-Holocene (5,000 years ago) compared to previous interglacial periods as recorded in polar ice core records. Proposed mechanisms for the rise in methane concentrations relate either to methane emissions from anthropogenic early rice cultivation or an increase in natural wetland emissions from tropical or boreal sources. Here we show that our climate and wetland simulations of the global methane cycle over the last glacial cycle (the past 130,000 years) recreate the ice core record and capture the late Holocene increase in methane concentrations. Our analyses indicate that the late Holocene increase results from natural changes in the Earth's orbital configuration, with enhanced emissions in the Southern Hemisphere tropics linked to precession-induced modification of seasonal precipitation. Critically, our simulations capture the declining trend in methane concentrations at the end of the last interglacial period (115,000-130,000 years ago) that was used to diagnose the Holocene methane rise as unique. The difference between the two time periods results from differences in the size and rate of regional insolation changes and the lack of glacial inception in the Holocene. Our findings also suggest that no early agricultural sources are required to account for the increase in methane concentrations in the 5,000 years before the industrial era.
21293909	AtSAP5, one of approximately 14 members of the Stress Associated Protein gene family in Arabidopsis, was identified by its expression in response to salinity, osmotic, drought and cold stress. AtSAP5 shows strong homology to OSISAP1, an A20/AN1-type zinc finger protein implicated in stress tolerance in rice. To evaluate the function of AtSAP5 in the regulation of abiotic stress responses, transgenic Arabidopsis plants that over-express AtSAP5 (35S::AtSAP5) were characterized, along with wild-type and T-DNA knock-down plants. Plants that over-express AtSAP5 showed increased tolerance to environmental challenges including salt stress, osmotic stress and water deficit. Comparison of gene expression patterns between 35S::AtSAP5 transgenic plants and wild-type plants under normal conditions and water deficit stress indicated that over-expression of AtSAP5 correlates with up-regulation of drought stress responsive gene expression. Analysis of transgenic plants that express GFP-AtSAP5 showed that it is localized primarily in nuclei of root cells and recombinant AtSAP5 has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro. These results indicate that AtSAP5 has E3 ligase activity and acts as a positive regulator of stress responses in Arabidopsis.
21294401	Free radical-induced oxidative stress damages cellular components leading to many human diseases. Plant-derived antioxidant compounds have become a profitable alternative to prevent oxidative stress in cells. To determine and compare total phenolic and flavonoid contents as well as antioxidant activity using both chemical and cell assays in the water extracts of brown rice and rice bran from two Thai rice cultivars: Sangyod, a red pigmented rice typically grown in Southern Thailand and Dawk Mali 105, a commercial white-colored rice. All the rice water extracts were analyzed for their total phenolic and flavonoid contents using the colorimetric assays, as well as for their antioxidant activity through two chemical assays: DPPH radical-scavenging and inhibition of lipid peroxidation assays, as well as through cell-based assays: scavenging capacity of intracellular ROS in HL60 cells using the fluorescent DCF and the NBT reduction. The two chemical assays detected free radical scavenging and free radical chain breaking activities in all the rice extracts with EC50 values ranging from 26 to 357 microg/ml. Moreover, the cell-based assays detected ROS scavenging activities of these extracts with EC50 values in the range of 0.6-5 mg/ml. All these assays indicated that the water extracts of Sangyod exerted significantly higher antioxidant activity than those of Dawk Mali 105, which exhibited only moderate to low activity. Furthermore, high levels of antioxidant activity of the water extracts of Sangyod were closely correlated to their flavonoid and phenolic contents, which were approximately 2.5 and 3 times higher, respectively, than those of Dawk Mali 105. These findings suggest that water extracts from colored brown rice or colored rice bran can be promising sources of potential natural antioxidants.
21294819	To evaluate the potential of apple pomace (AP) supplemented with rice husk for hyper citric acid production through solid-state fermentation by Aspergillus niger NRRL-567. Optimization of two key parameters, such as moisture content and inducer (ethanol and methanol) concentration was carried out by response surface methodology. In this study, the effect of two crucial process parameters for solid-state citric acid fermentation by A. niger using AP waste supplemented with rice husk were thoroughly investigated in Erlenmeyer flasks through response surface methodology. Moisture and methanol had significant positive effect on citric acid production by A. niger grown on AP (P < 0·05). Higher values of citric acid on AP by A. niger (342·41gkg(-1) and 248·42gkg(-1) dry substrate) were obtained with 75% (v/w) moisture along with two inducers [3% (v/w) methanol and 3% (v/w) ethanol] with fermentation efficiency of 93·90% and 66·42%, respectively depending upon the total carbon utilized after 144h of incubation period. With the same optimized parameters, conventional tray fermentation was conducted. The citric acid concentration of 187·96gkg(-1) dry substrate with 3% (v/w) ethanol and 303·34gkg(-1) dry substrate with 3% (v/w) methanol were achieved representing fermentation efficiency of 50·80% and 82·89% in tray fermentation depending upon carbon utilization after 120h of incubation period. Apple pomace proved to be the promising substrate for the hyper production of citric acid through solid-state tray fermentation, which is an economical technique and does not require any sophisticated instrumentation. The study established that the utilization of agro-industrial wastes have positive repercussions on the economy and will help to meet the increasing demands of citric acid and moreover will help to alleviate the environmental problems resulting from the disposal of agro-industrial wastes.
21294842	A dwarf mutant, designated LB4D, was obtained among the progeny of backcrosses to a wild rice introgression line. Genetic analysis of LB4D indicated that the dwarf phenotype was controlled by a single semidominant dwarfing gene, which was named LB4D. The mutants were categorized as dn-type dwarf mutants according to the pattern of internode reduction. In addition, gibberellin (GA) response tests showed that LB4D plants were neither deficient nor insensitive to GA. This study found that tiller formation by LB4D plants was decreased by 40% compared with the wild type, in contrast to other dominant dwarf mutants that have been identified, indicating that a different dwarfing mechanism might be involved in the LB4D dominant mutant. The reduction of plant height in F(1) plants ranged from 27.9% to 38.1% in different genetic backgrounds, showing that LB4D exerted a stronger dominant dwarfing effect. Using large F(2) and F(3) populations derived from a cross between heterozygous LB4D and the japonica cultivar Nipponbare, the LB4D gene was localized to a 46 kb region between the markers Indel 4 and Indel G on the short arm of chromosome 11, and four predicted genes were identified as candidates in the target region.
21295625	We have developed transgene pyramided rice lines, endowed with enhanced resistance to major sap-sucking insects, through sexual crosses made between two stable transgenic rice lines containing Allium sativum (asal) and Galanthus nivalis (gna) lectin genes. Presence and expression of asal and gna genes in pyramided lines were confirmed by PCR and western blot analyses. Segregation analysis of F₂ progenies disclosed digenic (9:3:3:1) inheritance of the transgenes. Homozygous F₃ plants carrying asal and gna genes were identified employing genetic and molecular methods besides insect bioassays. Pyramided lines, infested with brown planthopper (BPH), green leafhopper (GLH) and whitebacked planthopper (WBPH), proved more effective in reducing insect survival, fecundity, feeding ability besides delayed development of insects as compared to the parental transgenics. Under infested conditions, pyramided lines were found superior to the parental transgenics in their seed yield potential. This study represents first report on pyramiding of two lectin genes into rice exhibiting enhanced resistance against major sucking pests. The pyramided lines appear promising and might serve as a novel genetic resource in rice breeding aimed at durable and broad based resistance against hoppers.
21296046	In the field of prosthodontics, many methods for evaluating the masticatory function involve ejection of the food bolus from the mouth. In addition, these methods could not evaluate mastication and swallowing function comprehensively. The present study aimed to quantitatively evaluate masticatory functions during a series of masticatory and swallowing movements by using videoendoscopy. Subjects are ten healthy dentulous adults without dysphagia. The test foods used were 2-colored (green and white) molded rice and uirou (rice cake). The test foods were consumed under the restriction on the number of mastication (10, 15, 20, and 30), and under the instruction to "chew normally" or "chew well". The masticatory function was evaluated by observing the food bolus in the oropharynx with a videoendoscope. The bolus formation index (BFI), in terms of the degree of mixing of the green and white parts, was quantitatively determined using an image measurement software. The BFI of the rice and uirou increased significantly with increase in the number of mastication times (p<0.01). A significantly correlation coefficient was observed between the BFI and the number of mastication (0.84 for rice and 0.89 for uirou). The BFI obtained by "chewing well" was significantly higher than that obtained by "chewing normally" (p<0.01). The results of this study confirm that the endoscopic measurement of food bolus formation by mastication in terms of the color tones of 2-colored test foods enables quantitative evaluation of the masticatory function during a series of masticatory and swallowing movements.
21296423	In recent years, there has been a notable concern on the safety of genetically modified (GM) foods/plants, an important and complex area of research, which demands rigorous standards. Diverse groups including consumers and environmental Non Governmental Organizations (NGO) have suggested that all GM foods/plants should be subjected to long-term animal feeding studies before approval for human consumption. In 2000 and 2006, we reviewed the information published in international scientific journals, noting that the number of references concerning human and animal toxicological/health risks studies on GM foods/plants was very limited. The main goal of the present review was to assess the current state-of-the-art regarding the potential adverse effects/safety assessment of GM plants for human consumption. The number of citations found in databases (PubMed and Scopus) has dramatically increased since 2006. However, new information on products such as potatoes, cucumber, peas or tomatoes, among others was not available. Corn/maize, rice, and soybeans were included in the present review. An equilibrium in the number research groups suggesting, on the basis of their studies, that a number of varieties of GM products (mainly maize and soybeans) are as safe and nutritious as the respective conventional non-GM plant, and those raising still serious concerns, was currently observed. Nevertheless, it should be noted that most of these studies have been conducted by biotechnology companies responsible of commercializing these GM plants. These findings suggest a notable advance in comparison with the lack of studies published in recent years in scientific journals by those companies. All this recent information is herein critically reviewed.
21296585	MtSAP1 (Medicago truncatula stress-associated protein 1) was revealed as a down-regulated gene by suppressive subtractive hybridization between two mRNA populations of embryo axes harvested before and after radicle emergence. MtSAP1 is the first gene encoding a SAP with A20 and AN1 zinc-finger domains characterized in M. truncatula. MtSAP1 protein shares 54% and 62% homology with AtSAP7 (Arabidopsis thaliana) and OsiSAP8 (Oryza sativa) respectively, with in particular a strong homology in the A20 and AN1 conserved domains. MtSAP1 gene expression increased in the embryos during the acquisition of tolerance to desiccation, reached its maximum in dry seed and decreased dramatically during the first hours of imbibition. Abiotic stresses (cold and hypoxia), abscisic acid and desiccation treatments induced MtSAP1 gene expression and protein accumulation in embryo axis, while mild drought stress did not affect significantly its expression. This profile of expression along with the presence of anaerobic response elements and ABRE sequences in the upstream region of the gene is consistent with a role of MtSAP1 in the tolerance of low oxygen availability and desiccation during late stages of seed maturation. Silencing of MtSAP1 by RNA interference (RNAi) showed that the function of the encoded protein is required for adequate accumulation of storage globulin proteins, vicilin and legumin, and for the development of embryos able to achieve successful germination.
21296614	How human chronotype is correlated to nutrient and food-group intakes and dietary behavior remains to be elucidated. We cross-sectionally examined the association between the midpoint of sleep and these dietary variables in young Japanese women. A calculated halfway point between bedtime and rise time was used as midpoint of sleep. The subjects were 3304 female Japanese dietetics students aged 18-20years from 53 institutions in Japan. Dietary intake during the previous month was assessed by a validated, self-administered diet history questionnaire. The midpoint of sleep was calculated using self-reported bedtimes and rise times. Late midpoint of sleep was significantly negatively associated with the percentage of energy from protein and carbohydrates, and the energy-adjusted intake of cholesterol, potassium, calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc, vitamin A, vitamin D, thiamin, riboflavin, vitamin B(6), folate, rice, vegetables, pulses, eggs, and milk and milk products. It was also significantly positively associated with the percentage of energy from alcohol and fat, and the energy-adjusted intake of noodles, confections, fat and oil, and meat. Furthermore, subjects with a later midpoint of sleep tended to begin meals later, eat for a longer time, skip meals more frequently, and watch TV at meals, not only at breakfast but also at lunch and dinner. The midpoint of sleep is significantly associated with dietary intake of certain nutrients and foods and other dietary behaviors in young Japanese women. This finding may contribute to consider the relationships between chronotype and dietary intakes and behaviors.
21296764	DNA marker-assisted selection appears to be a promising strategy for improving rates of leaf photosynthesis in rice. The rate of leaf photosynthesis was significantly higher in a high-yielding indica variety, Habataki, than in the most popular Japanese variety, Koshihikari, at the full heading stage as a result of the higher level of leaf nitrogen at the same rate of application of nitrogen and the higher stomatal conductance even when the respective levels of leaf nitrogen were the same. The higher leaf nitrogen content of Habataki was caused by the greater accumulation of nitrogen by plants. The higher stomatal conductance of Habataki was caused by the higher hydraulic conductance. Using progeny populations and selected lines derived from a cross between Koshihikari and Habataki, it was possible to identify the genomic regions responsible for the rate of photosynthesis within a 2.1 Mb region between RM17459 and RM17552 and within a 1.2 Mb region between RM6999 and RM22529 on the long arm of chromosome 4 and on the short arm of chromosome 8, respectively. The designated region on chromosome 4 of Habataki was responsible for both the increase in the nitrogen content of leaves and hydraulic conductance in the plant by increasing the root surface area. The designated region on chromosome 8 of Habataki was responsible for the increase in hydraulic conductance by increasing the root hydraulic conductivity. The results suggest that it may be possible to improve photosynthesis in rice leaves by marker-assisted selection that focuses on these regions of chromosomes 4 and 8.
21297036	The rice (Oryza sativa) floral homeotic C-class gene, MADS3, was previously shown to be required for stamen identity determination during early flower development. Here, we describe a role for MADS3 in regulating late anther development and pollen formation. Consistent with this role, MADS3 is highly expressed in the tapetum and microspores during late anther development, and a newly identified MADS3 mutant allele, mads3-4, displays defective anther walls, aborted microspores, and complete male sterility. During late anther development, mads3-4 exhibits oxidative stress-related phenotypes. Microarray analysis revealed expression level changes in many genes in mads3-4 anthers. Some of these genes encode proteins involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis; among them is MT-1-4b, which encodes a type 1 small Cys-rich and metal binding protein. In vivo and in vitro assays showed that MADS3 is associated with the promoter of MT-1-4b, and recombinant MT-1-4b has superoxide anion and hydroxyl radical scavenging activity. Reducing the expression of MT-1-4b causes decreased pollen fertility and an increased level of superoxide anion in transgenic plants. Our findings suggest that MADS3 is a key transcriptional regulator that functions in rice male reproductive development, at least in part, by modulating ROS levels through MT-1-4b.
21297156	The diversity of plant architectural form is largely determined by the extent and duration of axillary meristem (AM) derived lateral growth. The orthologous basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins maize BARREN STALK1 (BA1) and rice LAX PANICLE1 (LAX1) are essential for the formation of AMs during vegetative development and all lateral structures during inflorescence development, but whether BA1/LAX1 co-orthologs exist outside of the grass family is unclear. Here, we present Bayesian phylogenetic evidence of a well-supported BA1/LAX1 clade comprised monocots and eudicots, estimating an origin for the lineage at least near the base of flowering plants. Genomic analyses in Arabidopsis, papaya, medicago, rice, sorghum, and maize indicate that BA1/LAX1 genes reside in syntenic regions, although there has also been a complex pattern of gene duplication and loss during the diversification of the angiosperm clade. BA1/LAX1 mRNA expression coincided with the initiation of leaves and associated AMs in the vegetative meristems of broccoli, medicago, and papaya implicating a role for the lineage in the formation of AMs in eudicots as well as monocots. Expression on the adaxial surface of lateral inflorescence structures was conserved in all sampled flowering plants, whereas mRNA expression in leaves of Arabidopsis, broccoli, and papaya also links BA1/LAX1 co-orthologs with roles in regulating leaf development, possibly as a downstream target of auxin regulating genes. Together these data point to roles for BA1/LAX1 genes during AM formation, leaf, and inflorescence development in diverse flowering plants and lend support to the hypothesis that the same genetic mechanisms regulate the development of different AM types.
21298252	Bispyribac-sodium is a commonly used herbicide. An analytical method employing HPLC with a diode array detector was developed to determine bispyribac-sodium residues in rice. The liquid-liquid partition and anion exchange solid phase procedures that were developed provide effective extraction and cleanup methods for analysis feasibility. Recoveries ranged from 83.98 to 98.51% with a relative standard deviation of 0.56-6.36% and sensitivity of 0.01 mg/kg. Bispyribac-sodium residues in rice were further confirmed by LC-MS. The proposed method was successfully applied to the analysis of bispyribac-sodium residues from a rice field in Jiangxi Province that had been treated using bispyribac-sodium.
21298263	Land-use change is known to have a significant effect on the indigenous soil microbial community, but it is unknown if there are any general trends regarding how this effect varies over time. Here, we describe a comparative analysis of microbial communities from three adjacent agricultural fields: one-century-old paddy field (OP) and two vegetable fields (new vegetable field (NV) and old vegetable field (OV)) that were established on traditional paddy fields 10 and 100 years ago, respectively. Soil chemical and physical analysis showed that both vegetable fields were more nutrient rich than the paddy field in terms of organic C, total N, total P, and available K. The vegetable fields possessed relatively higher abundance of culturable bacteria, fungi, and specific groups of bacteria (Actinomyces, nitrifying bacteria, and cellulose-decomposing bacteria) but lower levels of microbial biomass C and N. Notably, the decrease of biomass was further confirmed by analysis of seven additional soils in chronosequence sampled from the same area. Next we examined the metabolic diversity of the microbial community using the EcoPlate(TM) system from Biolog Inc. (Hayward, CA, USA). The utilization patterns of 31 unique C substrates (i.e., community-level physiological profile) showed that microorganisms in vegetable soil and paddy soil prefer to use different C substrates (polymeric compounds for NV and OV soils, phenolic acids for OP soil). Principal component analysis and the average well color development data showed that the NV is metabolically more distinct from the OV and OP. The effect was likely attributable to the elevated soil pH in NV soil. Furthermore, we assessed the diversity of soil bacterial populations using the cultivation-independent technology of amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA). Results showed that levels of bacterial diversity in OP and NV soils were similar (Shannon's diversity index H = 4.83 and 4.79, respectively), whereas bacteria in OV soil have the lowest score of diversity (H = 3.48). The low level of bacterial diversity in OV soil was supported by sequencing of ten randomly selected 16S rDNA clones from each of the three rDNA libraries. Phylogenetic analysis showed that all the ten OV clones belonged to Proteobacteria with eight in the gamma-subdivision and two in the alpha-subdivision. In contrast, the ten clones from NV and OP soils were classified into four and eight bacterial classes or unclassified groups, respectively. Taken together, our data suggest that land-use change from rice to vegetables resulted in a decrease of bacterial diversity and soil biomass despite an increase in the abundance of culturable microorganisms and, moreover, the decrease of bacterial diversity occurred during long-term rather than short-term vegetable cultivation.
21298364	Drought stress is a major limitation to rice (Oryza sativa L.) yields and its stability, especially in rainfed conditions. Developing rice cultivars with inherent capacity to withstand drought stress would improve rainfed rice production. Mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs) linked to drought resistance traits will help to develop rice cultivars suitable for water-limited environments through molecular marker-assisted selection (MAS) strategy. However, QTL mapping is usually carried out by genotyping large number of progenies, which is labour-intensive, time-consuming and cost-ineffective. Bulk segregant analysis (BSA) serves as an affordable strategy for mapping large effect QTLs by genotyping only the extreme phenotypes instead of the entire mapping population. We have previously mapped a QTL linked to leaf rolling and leaf drying in recombinant inbred (RI) lines derived from two locally adapted indica rice ecotypes viz., IR20/Nootripathu using BSA. Fine mapping the QTL will facilitate its application in MAS. BSA was done by bulking DNA of 10 drought-resistant and 12 drought-sensitive RI lines. Out of 343 rice microsatellites markers genotyped, RM8085 co-segregated among the RI lines constituting the respective bulks. RM8085 was mapped in the middle of the QTL region on chromosome 1 previously identified in these RI lines thus reducing the QTL interval from 7.9 to 3.8 cM. Further, the study showed that the region, RM212-RM302-RM8085-RM3825 on chromosome 1, harbours large effect QTLs for drought-resistance traits across several genetic backgrounds in rice. Thus, the QTL may be useful for drought resistance improvement in rice through MAS and map-based cloning.
21298704	Pollution-induced community tolerance (PICT) constitutes a sensitive and ecologically relevant impact parameter in ecotoxicology. We report the development and application of a novel anaerobic [(3) H]leucine incorporation assay and its comparison with the conventional aerobic [(3) H]leucine incorporation assay for PICT detection in soil bacterial communities. Selection of bacterial communities was performed over 42 d in bulk soil microcosms (no plants) and in rice (Oryza sativa) rhizosphere soil mesocosms. The following experimental treatments were imposed using a full factorial design: two soil types, two soil water regimes, and four Cu application rates (0, 30, 120, or 280 µg g(-1)). Bacterial communities in bulk soil microcosms exhibited similar Cu tolerance patterns when assessed by aerobic and anaerobic PICT assays, whereas aerobic microorganisms tended to be more strongly selected for Cu tolerance than anaerobic microorganisms in rhizosphere soil. Despite similar levels of water-extractable Cu, bacterial Cu tolerance was significantly higher in acid sulfate soil than in alluvial soil. Copper amendment selected for significant PICT development in soils subjected to alternate wetting and drying, but not in continuously flooded soils. Our results demonstrate that soil bacterial communities subjected to alternate wetting and drying may be more affected by Cu than bacterial communities subjected to continuous flooding. We conclude that the parallel use of anaerobic and aerobic [(3) H]leucine PICT assays constitutes a valuable improvement over existing procedures for PICT detection in irrigated soils and other redox gradient environments such as sediments and wetlands.
21298835	This study aims to compare the effectiveness between the packed rice-oral rehydration solution (R-ORS) and the glucose-based oral rehydration solution (G-ORS) in children with acute watery diarrhea. Randomized control trial was conducted to compare duration of diarrhea, stool frequency, incremental weight gain, intravenous fluid requirement, and duration of admission. Subjects were 70 pediatric patients (9-60 months-old) and were equally divided into two groups (n=35 for each): treatment group (with R-ORS treatment) and control group (with G-ORS treatment). The data were collected during January 1, 2007 to January 2008. All patients were treated with oral rehydration therapy within first 4 hours of admission. Intravenous rehydration was also scheduled. Both groups were fed with rice gruel or lactose-free formula as tolerated. Using survival analysis, both duration of diarrhea and admission was significantly shortened in the treatment group compared to the control group. (27.5 hrs. vs. 40.5 hrs: p = 0.01 and 40.1 hrs. vs. 56.0 hrs: p = 0.02 respectively). However, stool frequency, incremental weight gain and intravenous fluid requirement between the two groups remained insignificantly different. R-ORS was more effective in the management of acute watery diarrhea in children. Duration of diarrhea and treatment was shortened when compared to G-ORS.
21299089	Uninvestigated dyspepsia (UD) is common and only 26.4% of these are peptic ulcer disease, while 50% are non-ulcer dyspepsia. A recent study found that nephrolithiasis with urinary tract infection may have the dyspeptic symptoms. The authors searched for any associations between repeated UD and pyuria, hematuria and other factors. A case-control study was performed. It consisted of 489 patients with repeated UD who had visited community hospitals for at least two times per year and 489 controls sampled from the data of the subjects, free of dyspeptic symptoms, from the multi-stage random survey for subjective health complaints in the same province. Multivariate logistic regression models were used for case-control comparisons. By logistic regression analysis, UD was significantly associated with problems caused by purine-rich foods (PRFs), chronic fatigue, flank paresthesia, hematuria, myofascial pain, and pyuria. The respective adjusted odds ratios and 95% confidence interval (CI) were: 6.67 (4.58, 9.68), 5.06 (3.46, 7.40), 3.98 (2.41, 6.60), 2.97 (2.01, 4.38), 1.91 (1.32, 2.76) and 1.58 (1.01, 2.45). The variables of age (> 48), sex, dysuria, poly-arthralgia, headache and back pain were not significantly associated with UD. The foods that aggravated UD were bamboo shoots, fermented rice noodles, beef alcohol and insects. The rate of pyuria and hematuria was significantly increased with the number of visits within a year [p-value (Chi-square for trend), 0.015 and 0.032]. These findings indicate that pyuria, hematuria, and purine-rich foods were associated with repeated hospital visits for dyspepsia.
21300037	Brain damage from neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) plays a major role in neonatal mortality and morbidity. Using the Rice-Vannucci model of HI in rats, we verified that 8 days after HI injury, adenosine deaminase (ADA), N-acetyl-glucosaminidase (NAG) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activities increased in the left hemisphere hippocampus (HI group); however, the activity of 5'-nucleotidase (5'NT) remained unchanged. In the hematoxylin-eosin analysis (HE), we detected selective and delayed degeneration of hippocampal pyramidal neurons and astroglial reaction accompanied by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive and vimentin-positive in the immunohistochemistry analysis in the HI group compared with the control group. We observed the selective necrosis of neurons, vascular endothelial proliferation and inflammatory response accompanied by the increase of the key enzyme of adenosine metabolism in the HI group. The increase of ADA activity, despite the 5'NT activity was not altered, indicates the predominance of ADA activity in the postischemic homeostasis of extra cellular adenosine. The presence of leukocytes into the ischemic areas displays the possible importance of the neutrophil-macrophages associated with the increase of MPO and NAG activities 8 days after HI. These findings may contribute to the evaluation of some consequences of the damage caused by neonatal HI.
21300107	Salt-soluble proteins extracted from non-transgenic and transgenic rice were evaluated for the presence of known and potential allergens by proteomic techniques. The salt-soluble proteins were extracted, separated by 1D and 2D electrophoresis, and analyzed by Western blotting. 1D immunoblot analysis with patients' sera revealed few qualitative differences between the IgE-binding proteins of the non-transgenic and transgenic rice. 1D immunoblot with antigen-specific-animal sera revealed no qualitative or quantitative differences in two known allergens, RAG2 and glyoxalase I, between non-transgenic and transgenic rice. Multiple spots containing known and novel IgE-binding proteins were detected among the salt-soluble proteins of non-transgenic rice by 2D immunoblotting. Two globulin-like proteins, a 52 kDa protein and a 63 kDa protein, were identified as novel IgE-binding proteins that are candidates for rice allergens. These globulin-like proteins were homologous to Cupin superfamily allergens. Quantitative analysis of 19, 52, and 63 kDa globulins with protein-specific-animal sera showed no significant differences in the expression of these proteins between the transgenic rice and non-transgenic rice. These results indicate that none of the known or novel endogenous IgE-binding proteins detected in this study appear to be altered by genetic modification.
21300183	Many aspects of plant metabolism that are involved in plant growth and development are influenced by light-regulated diurnal rhythms as well as endogenous clock-regulated circadian rhythms. To identify the rhythmic proteins in rice, periodically grown (12h light/12h dark cycle) seedlings were harvested for three days at six-hour intervals. Continuous dark-adapted plants were also harvested for two days. Among approximately 3000 reproducible protein spots on each gel, proteomic analysis ascertained 354 spots (~12%) as light-regulated rhythmic proteins, in which 53 spots showed prolonged rhythm under continuous dark conditions. Of these 354 ascertained rhythmic protein spots, 74 diurnal spots and 10 prolonged rhythmic spots under continuous dark were identified by MALDI-TOF MS analysis. The rhythmic proteins were functionally classified into photosynthesis, central metabolism, protein synthesis, nitrogen metabolism, stress resistance, signal transduction and unknown. Comparative analysis of our proteomic data with the public microarray database (the Plant DIURNAL Project) and RT-PCR analysis of rhythmic proteins showed differences in rhythmic expression phases between mRNA and protein, suggesting that the clock-regulated proteins in rice are modulated by not only transcriptional but also post-transcriptional, translational, and/or post-translational processes.
21300551	The rice variety Tai06-1 is resistant to rice stripe disease and Xiushui63 is a highly susceptible rice variety to this disease. These two varieties were used to analyze the expression patterns of defense genes and antioxidant defense responses at the seedling stage, upon feeding with viruliferous small brown planthopper (SBPH) and nonviruliferous SBPH, respectively. The expression levels of CP (coat protein) gene of rice stripe virus (RSV) were higher upon feeding with viruliferous SBPH in Xiushui63 than in Tai06-1 throughout most of the experimental period, suggesting that RSV replicaiton is disturbed in Tai06-1 but not in Xiushui63, therefore, the resistance to RSV is higher in Tai06-1 than in Xiuhsui63. We found that defense genes PR1a (pathogenesis-related class 1a), PAL (phenylalanine ammonia-lyase), and CHS (chalcone synthase) may play roles in the defense responses to both RSV and SBPH in Tai06-1, and PR4 and PR10a may only participate in defending against SBPH attack but not against RSV infection in Tai06-1. Our data reveal that Gns1 (1,3; 1,4-β-glucanase) may participate in the defense responses to both RSV and SBPH in Xiushui63 but not in Tai06-1, and LOX (lipoxygenase) may only participate in defending against to SBPH in both Tai06-1 and Xiushui63. The antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, catalase, hydrogen peroxide, and malondialdehyde coordinately participate in the resistance to RSV in Tai06-1, and that oxidative damage is less in Tai06-1 than in Xiushui63.
21300993	Little is known about the effects of overall diet in childhood and intelligence later in life. The current study, based on the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children, uses data on children's diet reported by parents in food-frequency questionnaires at 3, 4, 7 and 8.5 years of age. Dietary patterns were identified using principal-components analysis and scores computed at each age. IQ was assessed using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children at 8.5 years. Data on a number of confounders were collected, and complete data were available for 3966 children. After adjustment, the 'processed' (high fat and sugar content) pattern of diet at 3 years of age was negatively associated with IQ assessed at 8.5 years of age-a 1 SD increase in dietary pattern score was associated with a 1.67 point decrease in IQ (95% CI -2.34 to -1.00; p<0.0001). The 'health-conscious' (salad, rice, pasta, fish, fruit) pattern at 8.5 years was positively associated with IQ: a 1 SD increase in pattern score led to a 1.20 point increase in IQ (95% CI 0.52 to 1.88; p=0.001). There is evidence that a poor diet associated with high fat, sugar and processed food content in early childhood may be associated with small reductions in IQ in later childhood, while a healthy diet, associated with high intakes of nutrient rich foods described at about the time of IQ assessment may be associated with small increases in IQ.
2130146	The serum level of cholesterol in rats fed a diet containing soy protein isolate was lower than that in rats fed either casein or rice protein at the level of 15% even after one day feeding, although fecal excretion of bile acids of rats fed soy protein isolate was almost equal with that of rats fed rice protein. Similar effect was also observed in the secretion rate of lipoproteins from the liver. Dietary proteins may affect the synthesis of apolipoproteins directly or through the hormonal system.
21301706	A titania hollow fiber membrane was successfully synthesized in a macro range via a template method coupled with a sol-gel process. Thermal gravimetric and differential thermal analysis (TG-DTA) was employed to study the effect of heat treatment on the synthesized hollow fiber, and the crystal forms of the titania hollow fiber membranes at different temperatures were studied by X-ray diffraction (XRD). The pore structure of the prepared titania hollow fiber was characterized by scanning electron micrograph (SEM) and nitrogen adsorption/desorption measurements. The prepared titania hollow fiber membrane was explored as a new adsorption material for trace metals for the first time and a new method of titania hollow fiber membrane solid phase microextraction (MSPME) online coupled to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) was developed for the determination of trace amount of Cd, Co, V and Ni in human serum samples. In order to validate the developed method, two certified reference materials of NIES.No.10-b rice flour and BCR No.184 bovine muscle were analyzed and the determined values were in good agreement with the certified values.
21302020	The aim of these studies was to characterize nucleotide substitutions leading to the phenotype of brassinosteroid-insensitive, semi-dwarf barley mutant 093AR. Two substitutions in the sequence of barley HvBRI1 gene, encoding leucine-rich repeats receptor kinase (LRR-RK), which participates in brassinosteroid (BR) signalling, were identified in this chemically-induced barley mutant of the cv. Aramir. The LRR-RK is a transmembrane protein phosphorylating downstream components. The identified substitutions CC>AA at positions 1760 and 1761 in the HvBRI1 gene of this mutant led to a missense mutation, causing the Thr-573 to Lys-573 replacement in the protein sequence. The threonine residue is situated in the distal part of a 70-amino acids island responsible for binding of BR molecules. As this residue is conserved among BRI1 protein homologs in Arabidopsis thaliana, Lycopersicon esculentum, Oryza sativa and Hordeum vulgare, it was postulated that this residue is crucial for the protein function. The genetic analyses indicated that the mutant 093AR was allelic to the spontaneous, semi-dwarf mutant uzu which carries A>G substitution at position 2612 of the HvBRI1 gene (GenBank acc. no. AB088206). A comparison of the genomic sequence of HvBRI1 in the mutants uzu, 093AR and in the cv. 'Aramir' confirmed the presence of the single-nucleotide A>G substitution at position 2612 in the sequence encoding kinase domain of HvBRI1 polypeptide in uzu, but not in 093AR mutant, indicating that a new allele of the HvBRI1 gene was identified.
21302323	Protein hydrolysate has more efficient peptide absorption and less hypertonic protein absorption. This study aims to investigate the influences of rice dreg (RD) protein and its hydrolysate on growth and somatropic axis in early-weaned Sprague-Dawley rats in comparison with soybean (SB) protein. Compared with a SB diet control, a rice dregs protein hydrolysate (RD-H) diet decreased average daily feed intake and feed/gain in weeks 1 (P < 0.01) and 2 (P < 0.05), while an RD diet decreased average daily feed intake and feed/gain in week 1 (P < 0.01). Average daily body gain exhibited no significant differences between either treatment during the 28-day period. After 28 d, villus height and lamina propria depth of jejunum and duodenum were greater in the RD-H treatment than in RD and control treatments (P < 0.01), while serum urea nitrogen concentration was lower in RD and RD-H treatments than in the control (P < 0.05). There were no differences in serum growth hormone concentration, hepatic and muscle insulin-like growth factor-1 expression, and muscle growth hormone receptor expression at 7 and 28 d (P > 0.05), but hepatic growth hormone receptor expression was higher in RD-H treatment than in RD and control treatments after 7 d (P < 0.05). Results showed that RD and RD-H diets improved feed utilisation efficiency in the first 2 weeks post-weaning and small intestine morphology at 28 d post-weaning for an early-weaned mammal compared with a SB diet.
21302599	Prevalence of immunoglobulin (Ig) E-mediated food allergy is primarily reported for certain pediatric populations and adults. The present study was aimed to investigate the relative prevalence of food allergy and allergens in older children and adults with asthma and allergic rhinitis. Patients (12-62 years) were screened using standard questionnaire and skin prick-test (SPT) with common foods and aeroallergens. Specific IgE level was determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and allergy was established by blinded food challenges. Of 1860 patients screened, 1097 (58.9%) gave history of food allergy. Of the history positive patients skin tested (n=470), 138 (29.3%) showed a marked positive reaction to food extracts. Rice elicited positive SPT reaction in maximum number of cases 29 (6.2%) followed by blackgram 28 (5.9%), lentil 26 (5.5%), citrus fruits 25 (5.3%), pea 18 (3.8%), maize 18 (3.8%) and banana 17 (3.6%). The SPT positive patients showed elevated specific IgE levels (range: 0.8-79 IU/mL) against respective food allergens than normal controls (0.73 IU/mL, mean +/- 2 SD). Food allergy was confirmed in 21/45 (46.6%) of the patients by blinded controlled food challenges. The prevalence of food allergy was estimated to be 4.5% (2.6%-6.34%) at 95% confidence interval (95% CI) in test population (n=470). Sensitisation to food was significantly associated with asthma (p = 0.0065) while aeroallergens were strongly related to rhinitis (p < 0.01). Food allergy is estimated to be 4.5% in adolescents and adults with asthma, rhinitis or both. Rice, citrus fruits, blackgram and banana are identified as major allergens for inducing allergic symptoms.
21303126	We have previously reported experimental evidence for conformationally selective dissociation of propanal cation that was interpreted, on the basis of ab initio multiple spawning calculations, as arising from distinct dynamics in the excited state manifold of the cation. Two conical intersections (CIs) are accessible from Franck-Condon points on the dark state; however, different conformers prefer different CIs and quench to different regions on the ground state. In this paper, we extend our initial report to include experimental results for the partially deuterated propanal cation as well as detailed characterization of the ground state potential energy surface and statistical calculations of the ground state dissociation dynamics. The DC slice imaging experiments show a bimodal velocity distribution for H elimination with the observed branching ratio of the two channels different for the cis and gauche conformers. H(D)-elimination experiments from deuterated propanal cation support the dissociation mechanism proposed in the earlier report. We further investigate reaction rates on the ground state using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory. We find that the experimental results are consistent with a mechanistic picture where the ground state dissociation is statistical, and conformer specificity of the dissociation products arises because of the different populations in distinct ground state isomers after photoexcitation due to ultrafast quenching to the ground state.
21303723	Large amounts of tomato fruits and derived products are produced in Argentina and may be contaminated by Alternaria toxins. Limited information is available on the genetic variability, toxigenicity, and pathogenicity of Alternaria strains occurring on tomato. We analyzed 65 Alternaria strains isolated in Argentina from tomato fruits affected by black mould and from tomato puree, using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) technique. AFLP analysis resolved the set of strains in 3 main clusters (DICE similarity values of 58 and 60%) corresponding to A. alternata/tenuissima (44 strains), A. arborescens (15 strains) and to an unknown group (6 strains). Most of the representative strains, belonging to each AFLP cluster, when cultured on rice, produced tenuazonic acid (up to 46,760 mg/kg), alternariol monomethyl ether (AME, up to 1860 mg/kg), and alternariol (up to 70 mg/kg). The toxin profile related to the strains was not related to any AFLP cluster, except for AME which was produced at lower level by A. arborescens. Most of strains were pathogenic on two types of commonly cultivated tomato fruits. These findings provide new information on the variability within the Alternaria species complex associated with tomato disease.
2130520	The characterisation and purification of the ethylene binding protein from developing cotyledons of Phaseolus vulgaris is described. Polyclonal antibodies to this protein recognise homologous proteins in peas, tomatoes and Arabidopsis. Direct binding assays and results from immunological studies indicate that more binding protein is present in abscission zones of Phaseolus than in petioles; ethylene treatment increases binding site abundance in abscission zones. Binding sites for ethylene in peas. Arabidopsis and rice are described indicating that there exist two classes differing only in their rate constants of association and dissociation. Arabidopsis mutants wholly insensitive to ethylene may be receptor deficient and their possible use in receptor studies is assessed. It is proposed that those binding sites with high rate constants of association are functional receptors. The sites with low rate constants of association may be receptors but may also represent receptor precursors or internalised receptors.
21305885	Crop residue burning is an extensive agricultural practice in the contiguous United States (CONUS). This analysis presents the results of a remote sensing-based study of crop residue burning emissions in the CONUS for the time period 2003-2007 for the atmospheric species of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2, sulfur dioxide (SO2), PM2.5 (particulate matter [PM] < or = 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter), and PM10 (PM < or = 10 microm in aerodynamic diameter). Cropland burned area and associated crop types were derived from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) products. Emission factors, fuel load, and combustion completeness estimates were derived from the scientific literature, governmental reports, and expert knowledge. Emissions were calculated using the bottom-up approach in which emissions are the product of burned area, fuel load, and combustion completeness for each specific crop type. On average, annual crop residue burning in the CONUS emitted 6.1 Tg of CO2, 8.9 Gg of CH4, 232.4 Gg of CO, 10.6 Gg of NO2, 4.4 Gg of SO2, 20.9 Gg of PM2.5, and 28.5 Gg of PM10. These emissions remained fairly consistent, with an average interannual variability of crop residue burning emissions of +/- 10%. The states with the highest emissions were Arkansas, California, Florida, Idaho, Texas, and Washington. Most emissions were clustered in the southeastern United States, the Great Plains, and the Pacific Northwest. Air quality and carbon emissions were concentrated in the spring, summer, and fall, with an exception because of winter harvesting of sugarcane in Florida, Louisiana, and Texas. Sugarcane, wheat, and rice residues accounted for approximately 70% of all crop residue burning and associated emissions. Estimates of CO and CH4 from agricultural waste burning by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency were 73 and 78% higher than the CO and CH4 emission estimates from this analysis, respectively. This analysis also showed that crop residue burning emissions are a minor source of CH4 emissions (< 1%) compared with the CH4 emissions from other agricultural sources, specifically enteric fermentation, manure management, and rice cultivation.
21306106	Emerging evidence supporting chronic disease fighting properties of rice bran has advanced the development of stabilized rice bran for human use as a functional food and dietary supplement. A global and targeted metabolomic investigation of stabilized rice bran fermented with Saccharomyces boulardii was performed in three rice varieties. Metabolites from S. boulardii-fermented rice bran were detected by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and assessed for bioactivity compared to nonfermented rice bran in normal and malignant lymphocytes. Global metabolite profiling revealed significant differences in the metabolome that led to discovery of candidate compounds modulated by S. boulardii fermentation. Fermented rice bran extracts from three rice varieties reduced growth of human B lymphomas compared to each variety's nonfermented control and revealed that fermentation differentially altered bioactive compounds. These data support that integration of global and targeted metabolite analysis can be utilized for assessing health properties of rice bran phytochemicals that are enhanced by yeast fermentation and that differ across rice varieties.
21307283	Multicellular organisms contain a large number of formins; however, their physiological roles in plants remain poorly understood. Here, we reveal that formin homology 5 (FH5), a type II formin mutated in rice morphology determinant (rmd), plays a crucial role in determining rice (Oryza sativa) morphology. FH5/RMD encodes a formin-like protein consisting of an N-terminal phosphatase tensin (PTEN)-like domain, an FH1 domain, and an FH2 domain. The rmd mutants display a bending growth pattern in seedlings, are stunted as adult plants, and have aberrant inflorescence (panicle) and seed shape. Cytological analysis showed that rmd mutants have severe cell elongation defects and abnormal microtubule and microfilament arrays. FH5/RMD is ubiquitously expressed in rice tissues, and its protein localization to the chloroplast surface is mediated by the PTEN domain. Biochemical assays demonstrated that recombinant FH5 protein can nucleate actin polymerization from monomeric G-actin or actin/profilin complexes, cap the barbed end of actin filaments, and bundle actin filaments in vitro. Moreover, FH5 can directly bind to and bundle microtubules through its FH2 domain in vitro. Our findings suggest that the rice formin protein FH5 plays a critical role in determining plant morphology by regulating actin dynamics and proper spatial organization of microtubules and microfilaments.
21307285	The actin cytoskeleton is an important regulator of cell expansion and morphogenesis in plants. However, the molecular mechanisms linking the actin cytoskeleton to these processes remain largely unknown. Here, we report the functional analysis of rice (Oryza sativa) FH5/BENT UPPERMOST INTERNODE1 (BUI1), which encodes a formin-type actin nucleation factor and affects cell expansion and plant morphogenesis in rice. The bui1 mutant displayed pleiotropic phenotypes, including bent uppermost internode, dwarfism, wavy panicle rachis, and enhanced gravitropic response. Cytological observation indicated that the growth defects of bui1 were caused mainly by inhibition of cell expansion. Map-based cloning revealed that BUI1 encodes the class II formin FH5. FH5 contains a phosphatase tensin-like domain at its amino terminus and two highly conserved formin-homology domains, FH1 and FH2. In vitro biochemical analyses indicated that FH5 is capable of nucleating actin assembly from free or profilin-bound monomeric actin. FH5 also interacts with the barbed end of actin filaments and prevents the addition and loss of actin subunits from the same end. Interestingly, the FH2 domain of FH5 could bundle actin filaments directly and stabilize actin filaments in vitro. Consistent with these in vitro biochemical activities of FH5/BUI1, the amount of filamentous actin decreased, and the longitudinal actin cables almost disappeared in bui1 cells. The FH2 or FH1FH2 domains of FH5 could also bind to and bundle microtubules in vitro. Thus, our study identified a rice formin protein that regulates de novo actin nucleation and spatial organization of the actin filaments, which are important for proper cell expansion and rice morphogenesis.
21307566	The main signs of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are cognitive impairment and senile plaques composed of amyloid beta (Aβ) observed in patients' brains. Therefore, therapy for AD focuses on the removal of Aβ. We developed an "edible vaccine" that employs intestinal immunity with little to no side effects. Rice was utilized as an edible vaccine. It expressed GFP-Aβ42. Aβ rice was administered orally to wild-type (WT) mice causing production of anti-Aβ antibodies. Since Aβ rice was mixed with the cholera toxin B subunit (CTB), antibody against the rice seed protein was also produced. Then, mice were caused to develop immune tolerance against the rice seed protein by oral administration of Aβ rice mixed with CTB. The results indicated that only anti-Aβ antibodies were produced.
21307590	Chitinase treatment of a commercial laminarioligosaccharide preparation from a mushroom resulted in a loss of previously reported elicitor activity in rice cells, indicating that the activity was attributable not to the laminarioligosaccharide but rather to the contaminating chitin fragments. This suggests that the elicitor activity of laminarioligosacchraides from such sources containing chitinaceous substances should be carefully interpreted.
21307636	Global climate change, i.e. higher and more variable temperatures, and a gain in soil salinity are increasing plant stress with direct consequences on crop yield and quality levels. Rice productivity is strongly affected by abiotic stress conditions. The regulation of chromatin structure in response to environmental stress is poorly understood. We investigated the interphase chromatin organization from rice plants in non-stress versus stress conditions. We have used a cytogenetic approach, based on fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with 45S, 5S rDNA and centromeric probes on rice tissue sections. The abiotic stress conditions included cold, heat and mild salinity and were applied during seed germination. In contrast to cold, saline and heat stresses caused extensive decondensation of 45S rDNA chromatin and also an increase in the distance between the 2 homologous 5S rDNA loci. 5-Azacytidine (5-AC), a DNA hypomethylating drug, greatly increased 45S rDNA chromatin decondensation and interestingly was able to induce polarization of centromeres in rice interphase nuclei. The abiotic stresses tested did not perturb the spatial position of centromeres, typically with circular arrangement around the nucleolus. The results suggest a role for chromatin plasticity in a world of climate changes.
21309510	The in vivo metabolism of a new herbicide pyribenzoxim (benzophenone Ο-[2,6-bis(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yloxy)benzoyl]oxime) in rice was carried out using container trials. Two radiolabeled forms of [carbonyl-(14)C]pyribenzoxim (P1) and [ring-(14)C(U)]pyribenzoxim (P2) were treated separately as formulations for foliar treatment by single applications of 50 g of active ingredient (ai)/ha at the 4-6 leaves stage. At 0, 7, 30, and 60 days after treatment (DAT), samples of panicle, foliage/rest of plant, and roots were taken for analysis. Upon harvest (120 DAT), rice plants were separated into grain, husk, straw, and root parts. Total radioactive residues (TRRs) at each sampling date were determined to show that the final radioactive residues at harvest were low in grain, husk, straw, and roots, accounting for <17 ppb. The concentration of final residues in the rice plant decreased rapidly, and less than 0.1% of initial TRRs remained at harvest. At 7 DAT, metabolite 1 [M1, 2,6-bis(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yloxy)benzoic acid] and two unknown compounds (other-1 and other-2) were detected in foliage extract, accounting for 3.5% TRRs (21.0 ppb), 3.1% TRRs (19.0 ppb), and 9.0% TRRs (54.3 ppb), respectively, while 26.1% of M1 was observed in solvent wash. Any other metabolites were not detected in the plant, including expected metabolite M3 (benzophenone oxime). On the basis of the results obtained, a metabolic pathway of pyribenzoxim in a rice plant was proposed.
21309865	Organisms are covered extracellularly with cuticular waxes that consist of various fatty acids. In higher plants, extracellular waxes act as indispensable barriers to protect the plants from physical and biological stresses such as drought and pathogen attacks. However, the effect of fatty acid composition on plant development under normal growth conditions is not well understood. Here we show that the ONION1 (ONI1) gene, which encodes a fatty acid elongase (β-ketoacyl CoA synthase) involved in the synthesis of very-long-chain fatty acids, is required for correct fatty acid composition and normal shoot development in rice. oni1 mutants containing a reduced amount of very-long-chain fatty acids produced very small shoots, with an aberrant outermost epidermal cell layer, and ceased to grow soon after germination. These mutants also showed abnormal expression of a KNOX family homeobox gene. ONI1 was specifically expressed in the outermost cell layer of the shoot apical meristem and developing lateral organs. These results show that fatty acid elongase is required for formation of the outermost cell layer, and this layer is indispensable for entire shoot development in rice.
21309868	Root hair growth requires intensive cell-wall modification. This study demonstrates that root hair-specific expansin As, a sub-clade of the cell wall-loosening expansin proteins, are required for root hair elongation in rice (Oryza sativa L.). We identified a gene encoding EXPA17 (OsEXPA17) from a rice mutant with short root hairs. Promoter::reporter transgenic lines exhibited exclusive OsEXPA17 expression in root hair cells. The OsEXPA17 mutant protein (OsexpA17) contained a point mutation, causing a change in the amino acid sequence (Gly104→Arg). This amino acid alteration is predicted to disrupt a highly conserved disulfide bond in the mutant. Suppression of OsEXPA17 by RNA interference further confirmed requirement for the gene in root hair elongation. Complementation of the OsEXPA17 mutant with other root hair EXPAs (OsEXPA30 and Arabidopsis EXPA7) can restore root hair elongation, indicating functional conservation of these root hair EXPAs in monocots and dicots. These results demonstrate that members of the root hair EXPA sub-clade play a crucial role in root hair cell elongation in Graminaceae.
21309870	Arabidopsis peroxisomes contain an incomplete oxidative pentose-phosphate pathway (OPPP), consisting of 6-phosphogluconolactonase and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase isoforms with peroxisomal targeting signals (PTS). To start the pathway, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) is required; however, G6PD isoforms with obvious C-terminal PTS1 or N-terminal PTS2 motifs are lacking. We used fluorescent reporter fusions to explore possibly hidden peroxisomal targeting information. Among the six Arabidopsis G6PD isoforms only plastid-predicted G6PD1 with free C-terminal end localized to peroxisomes. Detailed analyses identified SKY as an internal PTS1-like signal; however, in a medial G6PD1 reporter fusion with free N- and C-terminal ends this cryptic information was overruled by the transit peptide. Yeast two-hybrid analyses revealed selective protein-protein interactions of G6PD1 with catalytically inactive G6PD4, and of both G6PD isoforms with plastid-destined thioredoxin m2 (Trx(m2)). Serine replacement of redox-sensitive cysteines conserved in G6PD4 abolished the G6PD4-G6PD1 interaction, albeit analogous changes in G6PD1 did not. In planta bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) demonstrated that the G6PD4-G6PD1 interaction results in peroxisomal import. BiFC also confirmed the interaction of Trx(m2) with G6PD4 (or G6PD1) in plastids, but co-expression analyses revealed Trx(m2) -mediated retention of medial G6PD4 (but not G6PD1) reporter fusions in the cytosol that was stabilized by CxxC¹¹³S exchange in Trx(m2) . Based on preliminary findings with plastid-predicted rice G6PD isoforms, we dismiss Arabidopsis G6PD4 as non-functional. G6PD4 orthologs (new P0 class) apparently evolved to become cytosolic redox switches that confer thioredoxin-relayed alternative targeting to peroxisomes.
21310601	Adiponectin is an insulin-sensitizing adipocyte-derived adipokine. The decrease in plasma adiponectin level (hypoadiponectinemia) is involved in the development of insulin resistance and the resulting type 2 diabetes. Our previous studies have demonstrated that γ-oryzanol (ORZ) from rice bran suppressed NF-κB activation and increased adiponectin secretion from adipocyte. In this study, we have evaluated effects of oral administration of animal fat (beef tallow) and palmitate on mouse serum adiponectin level. Oral administrations of beef tallow and palmitate significantly suppressed serum adiponectin levels into around half of the initial level from 48 to 96 h after administration compared with the case of corn oil (P<0.05). Coadministration of ORZ successfully remedied mouse hypoadiponectinemia induced by ingestion of beef tallow and the relative adiponectin levels attained to 1.66±0.23 at 96 h after administration (mean value±s.e., P<0.05). Diverse physiological functions of ORZ in crop bran might be promising us to prevent chronic inflammations in the pathogeneses of the metabolic or insulin resistance syndromes.
21310619	We prepared 19 amino acid conjugates of the plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) and investigated their biological activity, enzymatic hydrolysis by a recombinant Arabidopsis amidohydrolases GST-ILR1 and GST-IAR3, and metabolic fate in rice seedlings. Different sets of ABA-amino acids induced ABA-like responses in different plants. Some ABA-amino acids, including some that were active in bioassays, were hydrolyzed by recombinant Arabidopsis GST-IAR3, although GST-ILR1 did not show hydrolysis activity for any of the ABA-amino acids. ABA-L-Ala, which was active in all the bioassays, an Arabidopsis seed germination, spinach seed germination, and rice seedling elongation assays, except in a lettuce seed germination assay and was hydrolyzed by GST-IAR3, was hydrolyzed to free ABA in rice seedlings. These findings suggest that some plant amidohydrolases hydrolyze some ABA-amino acid conjugates. Because our study indicates the possibility that different plants have hydrolyzing activity toward different ABA-amino acids, an ABA-amino acid may function as a species-selective pro-hormone of ABA.
21313731
21313884	The objectives of this study were to evaluate the application of different macroscopic root water extraction models for prediction of rice grain yield based on data obtained in a greenhouse experiment. In this experiment, the irrigation treatments were continuous flooding (control), intermittent flooding (1- and 2-day intervals) and the salinity levels of irrigation water were 0.6 (control), 1.5, 3, 4.5 and 6 dS m(-1) in the year of 2005 and 0.6 (control), 1.5, 2.5, 3.5 and 4.5 dS m(-1) in the year of 2006. A local cultivar (Ghasrodashty/Komphiroozy) was planted in pots under greenhouse condition during years 2005 and 2006. Grain yield and evapotranspiration at different treatments were determined. The effect of salinity and water stress on root-water uptake coefficient was determined by FAO and Homaee and Feddes methods and grain yield was predicted by production functions. The FAO method did not predict the interaction effects of salinity and water stress on reduction of water uptake coefficient especially at high salinity levels, while the Homaee and Feddes method predicted properly the effects of salinity and water stress on root-water uptake coefficient. Further, yield was predicted by using the root-water uptake coefficient suggested by FAO and Homaee and Feddes methods. The results indicated that the FAO method did not predict the yield properly especially in continuous flooding and salinity level of more than threshold values, but the Homaee and Feddes method predicted the grain yield with minimum error.
21314781
2131502	Two hundred and sixty five subjects with high risk works for leptospirosis were submitted to microscopic agglutination test for leptospira. 122 worked at animal farms, 71 in rice growing fields and 72 in slaughter houses. 30 control subjects were also tested. A total of 66 samples (22%) were positive, most of them with low titers. Percentage of positive reactions were higher for persons working in rice fields, followed by those working in slaughter houses and animal farms. The 21-40 year age group was most affected in all working sites. Serovars found most commonly were ichterohemorrhagic in rice field workers, hardjo and ballum in slaughter houses and pomona and hardjo in animal farms.
21315452	The relationships between lead (Pb) uptake and iron/manganese plaque formation on rice roots were investigated with three cultivars. The results showed that the rice cultivars with indica consanguinity were more sensitive to soil Pb stress than the cultivar with japonica consanguinity. Pb concentrations and distribution ratios in root tissues were in the order: Shanyou 63 > Yangdao 6 > Wuyunjing 7, but Pb and Fe concentrations and distribution ratios in the plaques showed a reverse order. Mn concentrations and distribution ratios in the plaques of Wuyunjing 7 were significantly higher (P < 0.01 or 0.05) than those of Shanyou 63 and Yangdao 6. The results indicate that iron/manganese plaque on rice root can provide a barrier to soil Pb stress. The plaque will increase sequestration of Pb on rice root surface and in the rhizosphere, providing a means of external exclusion of soil Pb to some extent.
21316043	Our aim was to investigate rhizosphere effects on the chemical behavior of Cd. This was done in a glasshouse experiment, where two rice cultivars (Zhenong54 and Sixizhan) were grown in soil spiked with cadmium (Cd) at two levels, 3.9 ± 0.5 and 8.3 ± 0.5 mg kg(-1) soil, placed in a rhizobox until ripening stage. Chemical forms of cadmium near the root surface were then assessed using a sequential extraction procedure (SEP). There were significant differences in Cd species, especially exchangeable Cd (EXC-Cd) between the two rice cultivars as affected by rice roots. The lowest EXC-Cd with Zhenong54 appeared in the near-rhizosphere area with little difference between tillering stage and ripening stage while Sixizhan had its lowest EXC-Cd concentration in the root compartment. Both cultivars had slight changes in the Fe/Mn oxide-bound fraction of Cd (FMO-Cd) at the grain ripening stage while the control treatments without plants had a significant increase in FMO-Cd at the same time, indicating a transformation from a less bioavailable form (FMO-Cd) to more bioavailable forms (EXC-Cd). Soil microbial biomass in the vicinity of the root surface had opposite trends to some extent with EXC-Cd, partly because of the root-induced changes to bioavailable Cd. Unlike Zhenong54, Sixizhan had a higher Cd concentration in the root, but only a small proportion of Cd translocated from the root to grain.
21316207	Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of risk factors including insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes and is found to associate partly with chronic stress at work in human. Adiponectin circulates in mammal blood mainly as a low molecular weight (LMW) trimer, hexamer, and a high molecular weight (HMW) multimers. Low circulating levels of adiponectin are related to metabolic syndrome. We have then investigated the influence of immobilization stress on plasma adiponectin concentrations in mice. Relative LMW and HMW adiponectin levels were markedly reduced by immobilization stress (0.66±0.07 and 0.59±0.06 after 102 h, respectively), significantly different from the control values (p<0.01 and 0.05, respectively). γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) and γ-oryzanol abundantly contained in germinated brown rice have some physiological functions. We further investigated the effect of GABA, γ-oryzanol, GABA plus γ-oryzanol on adiponectin levels in mice subjected to immobilization stress. GABA and γ-oryzanol significantly increased the relative LMW and HMW adiponectin levels under immobilization stress (1.10±0.11 and 0.99±0.19 after 102 h, respectively, for GABA; 1.08±0.17 and 1.15±0.17 after 102 h, respectively, for γ-oryzanol). Additionally, the co-administration of GABA and γ-oryzanol also increased both relative LMW and HMW adiponectin levels (1.02±0.07 and 0.99±0.10 after 102 h, respectively) and was effective in an earlier phase from 30 to 54 h. The results indicate that the co-administration of GABA and γ-oryzanol might be effective in preventing stress-induced hypoadiponectinemia in mice and be also a promising tool for improving metabolic syndrome aggravated by chronic stress.
21316795	The A20/AN1 zinc-finger proteins (ZFPs) play pivotal roles in animal immune responses and plant stress responses. From previous gibberellin (GA) microarray data and A20/AN1 ZFP family member association, we chose Oryza sativa dwarf rice with overexpression of gibberellin-induced gene (OsDOG) to examine its function in the GA pathway. OsDOG was induced by gibberellic acid (GA(3)) and repressed by the GA-synthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol. Different transgenic lines with constitutive expression of OsDOG showed dwarf phenotypes due to deficiency of cell elongation. Additional GA(1) and real-time PCR quantitative assay analyses confirmed that the decrease of GA(1) in the overexpression lines resulted from reduced expression of GA3ox2 and enhanced expression of GA2ox1 and GA2ox3. Adding exogenous GA rescued the constitutive expression phenotypes of the transgenic lines. OsDOG has a novel function in regulating GA homeostasis and in negative maintenance of plant cell elongation in rice.
21316853	This paper illustrates the application of artificial neural network (ANN) for prediction of performances in competitive adsorption of phenol and resorcinol from aqueous solution by conventional and low cost carbonaceous adsorbent materials, such as activated carbon (AC), wood charcoal (WC) and rice husk ash (RHA). The three layer's feed forward neural network with back propagation algorithm in MATLAB environment was used for estimation of removal efficiencies of phenol and resorcinol in bi-solute water environment based on 29 sets of laboratory batch study results. The input parameters used for training of the neural network include amount of adsorbent (g/L), initial concentrations of phenol (mg/L) and resorcinol (mg/L), contact time (h), and pH. The removal efficiencies of phenol and resorcinol were considered as an output of the neural network. The performances of the developed ANN models were also measured using statistical parameters, such as mean error, mean square error, root mean square error, and linear regression. The comparison of the removal efficiencies of pollutants using ANN model and experimental results showed that ANN modeling in competitive adsorption of phenolic compounds reasonably corroborated with the experimental results.
21317339	Although phosphate (Pi) starvation signaling is well studied in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), it is still largely unknown in rice (Oryza sativa). In this work, a rice leaf tip necrosis1 (ltn1) mutant was identified and characterized. Map-based cloning identified LTN1 as LOC_Os05g48390, the putative ortholog of Arabidopsis PHO2, which plays important roles in Pi starvation signaling. Analysis of transgenic plants harboring a LTN1 promoter::β-glucuronidase construct revealed that LTN1 was preferentially expressed in vascular tissues. The ltn1 mutant exhibited increased Pi uptake and translocation, which led to Pi overaccumulation in shoots. In association with enhanced Pi uptake and transport, some Pi transporters were up-regulated in the ltn1 mutant in the presence of sufficient Pi. Furthermore, the elongation of primary and adventitious roots was enhanced in the ltn1 mutant under Pi starvation, suggesting that LTN1 is involved in Pi-dependent root architecture alteration. Under Pi-sufficient conditions, typical Pi starvation responses such as stimulation of phosphatase and RNase activities, lipid composition alteration, nitrogen assimilation repression, and increased metal uptake were also activated in ltn1. Moreover, analysis of OsmiR399-overexpressing plants showed that LTN1 was down-regulated by OsmiR399. Our results strongly indicate that LTN1 is a crucial Pi starvation signaling component downstream of miR399 involved in the regulation of multiple Pi starvation responses in rice.
21317545	The causal gene of a novel small and round seed mutant 1 (srs1) was identified in rice by map-based cloning and named SMALL AND ROUND SEED 1 (SRS1). The SRS1 gene is identical to the previously identified DENSE AND ERECT PANICLE 2 (DEP2). The SRS1/DEP2 gene encodes a novel protein of 1365 amino acids residues without known functional domains. In the longitudinal direction of the lemma, both cell length and cell number are reduced in srs1-1 compared to the wild type, whereas in the lateral cross section of the lemma, cell length in srs1-1 is greater than that in the wild type, but the cell number in srs1-1 is the same as that in wild type. These results suggest that the small and round seed phenotype of srs1-1 is due to the reduction in both cell length and cell number in the longitudinal direction, and the elongation of the cells in the lateral direction of the lemma. The SRS1 mRNA and proteins are abundant in wild type rice specifically in young organs, namely young leaves, internodes and panicles. Interestingly, the tissues expressing SRS1 are closely related to the tissues that exhibit abnormalities in the srs1 mutants.
21318171	Rice straw hydrolysate was used as lignocellulose-based carbon source for Chlorella pyrenoidosa cultivation and the feasibility of in situ biodiesel production was investigated. 13.7 g/L sugar was obtained by enzymatic hydrolyzation of rice straw. Chlorella pyrenoidosa showed a rapid growth in the rice straw hydrolysate medium, the maximum biomass concentration of 2.83 g/L was obtained in only 48 hours. The lipid content of the cells reached as high as 56.3%. In situ transesterification was performed for biodiesel production. The optimized condition was 1 g algal powder, 6 mL n-hexane, and 4 mL methanol with 0.5 M sulfuric acid at the temperature of 90°C in 2-hour reaction time, under which over 99% methyl ester content and about 95% biodiesel yield were obtained. The results suggested that the method has great potential in the production of biofuels with lignocellulose as an alternative carbon source for microalgae cultivation.
21318489	Tocopherols synthesized exclusively by photosynthetic organisms are major antioxidants in biomembranes. In plants, tocopherol cyclase (TC/VTE1) catalyzes the conversion of 2,3-dimethyl-5-phytyl-1,4-benzoquinone (DMPBQ) to γ-tocopherol. In the present study, OsVTE1, which encodes a rice tocopherol cyclase ortholog, was cloned and characterized. OsVTE1 was induced significantly by abiotic stresses such as high salt, H(2)O(2), drought, cold and by the plant hormones ABA and salicylic acid. The tissue-specific expression pattern and OsVTE1-promoter GUS activity assay showed that OsVTE1 was mainly expressed in the leaf, and also could be detected in the root, stem and panicle. Compared with control plants, transgenic plants with Os-VTE1 RNA interference (OsVTE1-RNAi) were more sensitive to salt stress whereas, in contrast, transgenic plants overexpressing OsVTE1 (OsVTE1-OX) showed higher tolerance to salt stress. The DAB in vivo staining showed that OsVTE1-OX plants accumulated less H(2)O(2) than did control plants.
21319185	Seed development in this paper has been classified into the three landmark stages of cell division, organ initiation and maturation, based on morphological changes, and the available literature. The entire process proceeds at the behest of an interplay of various specific and general transcription factors (TFs). Monocots and dicots utilize overlapping, as well as distinct, TF networks during the process of seed development. The known TFs in rice and Arabidopsis have been chronologically categorized into the three stages. The main regulators of seed development contain B3 or HAP3 domains. These interact with bZIP and AP2 TFs. Other TFs that play an indispensable role during the process contain homeobox-, NAC-, MYB-, or ARF-domains. This paper is a comprehensive analysis of the TFs essential for seed development and their interactions. An understanding of this interplay will not only help unravel an integrated developmental process, but will also pave the way for biotechnological applications.
21319457	An investigation of the physical, chemical and microbial population changes that occurred during the composting of water hyacinth was carried out. After 11 weeks of composting, the compost turned black, had decomposed and had no smell. The pH was 7 and the highest temperature reached, of 40 degrees C occurred in the first week. The initial carbon/nitrogen ratio was 17.61 and this increased to 18.12 by the end of the composting. The coliform population declined greatly from 8.11 to 5.85 MPN (log)/g and fecal coliforms and Escherichia coli were not detected in the final product. Bacteria were the dominant microbes in the compost followed by actinomycetes and fungi. Mesophillic microorganisms were present in higher numbers than thermophillic microorganisms throughout the composting. The highest cellulase and xylanase activities in the compost of 6.67 and 10.24 U/kg DW, respectively were detected in the second week which was related to the temperature. Bacillus sp. strain B4 was isolated and investigated for cellulase and xylanase using agro-industrial residues as substrates during Solid-State Fermentation (SSF) processes. Corncob and rice straw were good substrates for the production of the enzymes with a maximum cellulase of 1.19 U/gDW and xylanase activity of 2.54 U/g DW, respectively. The activities of both enzymes were stable and maximum at 50 degrees C. This study indicated that agro-industrial residues should be mixed with water hyacinth for composting to facilitate the development of a thermophilic phase during the composting process and to improve the product. Bacillus sp. strain B4 can be used as a starter strain.
21319715	Two cDNAs specific for P450 genes, CYP6AE28 and CYP6AE30, have been isolated from the rice leaf folder Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenée (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae). Both cDNA-predicted proteins have 504 amino acid residues in length, but with molecular masses of 60177 Dalton for CYP6AE28 and 60020 Dalton for CYP6AE30, and theoretical pI values of 8.49 for CYP6AE28 and 8.56 for CYP6AE30, respectively. Both putative proteins contain the conserved structural and functional domains characteristic of all CYP6 members. CYP6AE28 and CYP6AE30 show 52% amino acid identity to each other; both of them have 49-56% identities with CYP6AE1, Cyp6ae12, and CYP6AE14. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the two P450s are grouped in the lineage containing some of the CYP6AE members, CYP6B P450s and CYP321A1. The transcripts of CYP6AE28 and CYP6AE30 were found to be induced in response to TKM-6, a rice variety with high resistance to C. medinalis. The results suggest that the two P450s may play important roles in adaptation to the host plant rice. This is the first report of P450 genes cloned in C. medinalis.
21320365	To establish the effectiveness of a new phytosterol-containing spread derived from rice bran oil (RBO), a randomised, double-blind, cross-over human clinical trial was conducted over 12 weeks. A total of eighty mildly hypercholesterolaemic (total blood cholesterol level ≥ 5 and ≤ 7·5 mmol/l with a serum TAG level of ≤ 4·5 mmol/l) individuals were randomised into two groups (n 40). Group 1 consumed spread only daily for 4 weeks. They were randomised to consume 20 g RBO spread (RBOS), 20 g standard spread (SS) or 20 g phytosterol-enriched spread (PS). After a 4-week period, individuals changed to the next randomised treatment until all three treatments had been consumed. Group 2 consumed spread plus oil daily for 4 weeks. They consumed 20 g RBOS plus 30 ml RBO, 20 g SS plus 30 ml sunflower oil or 20 g RBOS. Blood samples were collected for the analysis of lipid parameters, and 3 d diet records were collected. Compared with SS, RBOS significantly reduced total cholesterol by 2·2 % (P = 0·045), total cholesterol:HDL by 4·1 % (P = 0·005) and LDL-cholesterol by 3·5 % (P = 0·016), but was not as effective overall as PS, which reduced total cholesterol by 4·4 % (P = 0·001), total cholesterol:HDL by 3·4 % (P = 0·014) and LDL-cholesterol by 5·6 % (P = 0·001). In group 2, the addition of RBO to the RBOS produced no differences in cholesterol levels. These results confirm that RBOS is effective in lowering serum cholesterol when consumed as part of a normal diet.
21320905	Human niche construction encompasses both purely biological phenomena, such as the evolution of lactose tolerance, and dual inheritance theory, which investigates the transmission of cultural information. But does niche construction help to explain phenomena in which conscious intention also plays a role? The creation of the engineered landscape of Balinese rice terraces offers a test case. Population genetic analysis and archaeological evidence are used to investigate whether this phenomenon emerged historically from trial and error by generations of farmers, or alternatively was designed by Bali's rulers. In light of strong support for the former hypothesis, two models are developed to explore the emergence of functional structure at both local and global scales. As time goes forward and selected patterns of irrigation schedules are implemented, local variation in rice harvests influences future decisions by the farmers, creating a coupled human-natural system governed by feedback from the environment. This mathematical analysis received a measure of empirical support when government agricultural policies severed the local feedback channels, resulting in the almost instantaneous collapse of rice harvests. The historical process of niche construction may also have included an evolution of religious consciousness, reflected in the beliefs and practices of the water temple cult.
21322007	One unusual aromatic monacolin analog, monacophenyl, was isolated from the ethanolic extract of Monascus purpureus-fermented rice. Its structure was completely and unambiguously assigned by one- and two-dimensional NMR techniques ((1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, HSQC, HMBC and NOESY) and high-resolution ESI-MS spectrometry.
21322246	The zonal characteristics and cultivated types difference of functional components in brown rice of 907 accessions for primary core collection for rice landrace from 16 prefectures of five rice regions in Yunnan Province were determined by ultraviolet spectrophotometry of DU640 type from BECKMAN. The analytical results showed that the contents mg x (100 g)(-1) of total flavone in brown rice is 306.98 +/- 192.75, the content of upland (341.74 +/- 185.11) is the most significantly higher than that of lowland (290.41 +/- 193.72), that of the glutinous (315.54 +/- 197.64) is significantly higher than non-glutinous (171.68 +/- 11.76), that of early-mid (318.25 +/- 197.93) is the most significantly higher than late (282.12 +/- 178.11), that of red rice (379.22 +/- 197.70) and purple rice (365.61 +/- 195.44) are the most significantly higher than white rice (216.96 +/- 142.11), and that of nuda (332.68 +/- 196.22) is significantly higher than non-nuda (300. 48 +/- 191.14). Among five rice regions, in turn III (327.13) > LL (324.23) > IV (273.11) > V (270.16) > I (258.26), namely it is the most significantly highest (p < 0.01) for contents of total flavone from South Yunnan (II, III) than that of middle Yunnan; It is the most significantly highest from Simao prefecture than that of 8 prefectures, but it is the most significantly low from Baoshan prefecture than that of 7 prefectures. The contents mg x (100 g)(-1) of g-amino butyric acid (GABA) in brown rice is 7.43 +/- 2.53, the content of lowland (7.59 +/- 2. 56) is the most significantly higher than that of upland (7.09 +/- 2.45), that of non-glutinous (8.55 +/- 2.88) is the most significantly higher than glutinous (7.10 +/- 2.32), that of late (7.88 +/- 2.64) is the most significantly higher than early-mid (7.23 +/- 2.45), that of white rice (8.38 +/- 2.66) is the most significantly higher than red rice (6.63 +/- 2.14) and purple rice (7.34 +/- 2.18); Among five rice regions in turn II (7.69) > I (7.40) > IV (7.39) > III (7.33) > V (6.64), viz. the content of GABA from South Yunnan single/double cropping rice region is clearly higher than that of Northwest Yunnan cold highland japonica rice region; It is significant difference of GABA content in brown rice for that Simao prefecture South Yunnan and Yuxi as well as Baoshan prefecture, at least than that of 5 prefectures. The contents (%) of resistant starch in brown rice is 0.75 +/- 0.29, the contents of indica (0.78 +/- 0.35) is significantly higher than japonica (0.74 +/- 0.24), that of glutinous (0.78 +/- 0.31) is the most significantly higher than non-glutinous (0. 67 +/- 0.22), that of late (0.77 +/- 0. 35) is the most significantly higher than early-mid (0.75 +/- 0.26), that of red rice (0.81 +/- 0.30) and purple rice (0.70 +/- 0.30) is the most significantly higher than white rice (0.69 +/- 0.27); Among five rice regions in turn I (0.83) > II (0.79) > III (0.76) > V (0. 55) > IV (0.50), namely it is the highest (p < 0.01) for contents of resistant starch from the middle and South Yunnan province (I, II, III) than that of northern rice regions (V, IV), and the lowest for contents of resistant starch of Lijiang prefecture of northwestern and Zaotong of northeastern in this province compared to that of 13 prefectures except Diqing prefectures. These results not only reveal the most significant difference between lowland versus upland, glutinous versus nonglutinous, early/mid rice and red/purple versus white rice based on the contents of total flavone and resistant starch as well as g-amino butyric acid (GABA) in brown rice (p < 0.01), and no significant difference between indica and japonica, awn and no-awn, and common rice and aromatic/soft rice, but also elucidate obvious zonal characteristics of three functional components in brown rice of Yunnan rice. The above results provided theory bases for the genetic breeding and production of functional rice and solve the problems of chronic for human being.
21322560	An esterase from rice (Oryza sativa) bran was identified on two-dimensional gel using 4-methylumbelliferyl butyrate as a substrate. The esterase cDNA (870 bp) encoded a 289 amino acid protein (designated OsEST-b) and was expressed in Escherichia coli . The molecular weight of recombinant OsEST-b (rOsEST-b) was 27 kDa, as measured by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Biochemical characterization demonstrated that rOsEST-b was active over a broad temperature range (optimum at 60 °C) and preferred alkaline conditions (optimum at pH 9.0). The rOsEST-b showed maximum activity toward p-nitrophenyl butyrate (C(4)) among various p-nitrophenyl esters (C(4)-C(18)), indicating that rOsEST-b is an esterase for short-chain fatty acids. The kinetic parameters under optimal conditions were K(m) = 27.03 μM, k(cat) = 49 s(-1), and k(cat)/K(m) = 1.81 s(-1) μM(-1). The activity of rOsEST-b was not influenced by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, suggesting that it is not a metalloenzyme. The amino acid sequence analysis revealed that OsEST-b had a conserved pentapeptide esterase/lipase motif but that the essential active site serine (GXSXG) was replaced by cysteine (C). These results suggest that OsEST-b is distinct from traditional esterases/lipases and is a novel lipolytic enzyme in rice bran.
21323642	The evolution of natural product biosynthetic pathways can be envisioned to occur via a number of mechanisms. In the present study we provide evidence that latent plasticity plays a role in such metabolic evolution. In particular, rice (Oryza sativa) produces both ent- and syn-CPP (copalyl diphosphate), which are substrates for downstream diterpene synthases. In the present paper we report that several members of this enzymatic family exhibit dual reactivity with some pairing of ent-, syn- or normal CPP stereochemistry. Evident plasticity was observed, as a previously reported ent-sandaracopimaradiene synthase also converts syn-CPP into syn-labda-8(17),12E,14-triene, which can be found in planta. Notably, normal CPP is not naturally found in rice. Thus the presence of diterpene synthases that react with this non-native metabolite reveals latent enzymatic/metabolic plasticity, providing biochemical capacity for utilization of such a novel substrate (i.e. normal CPP) which may arise during evolution, the implications of which are discussed.
21323774	Here we present the genomic sequence of the African cultivated rice, Oryza glaberrima, and compare these data with the genome sequence of Asian cultivated rice, Oryza sativa. We obtained gene-enriched sequences of O. glaberrima that correspond to about 25% of the gene regions of the O. sativa (japonica) genome by methylation filtration and subtractive hybridization of repetitive sequences. While patterns of amino acid changes did not differ between the two species in terms of the biochemical properties, genes of O. glaberrima generally showed a larger synonymous-nonsynonymous substitution ratio, suggesting that O. glaberrima has undergone a genome-wide relaxation of purifying selection. We further investigated nucleotide substitutions around splice sites and found that eight genes of O. sativa experienced changes at splice sites after the divergence from O. glaberrima. These changes produced novel introns that partially truncated functional domains, suggesting that these newly emerged introns affect gene function. We also identified 2451 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) from the genomes of O. glaberrima and O. sativa. Although tri-nucleotide repeats were most common among the SSRs and were overrepresented in the protein-coding sequences, we found that selection against indels of tri-nucleotide repeats was relatively weak in both African and Asian rice. Our genome-wide sequencing of O. glaberrima and in-depth analyses provide rice researchers not only with useful genomic resources for future breeding but also with new insights into the genomic evolution of the African and Asian rice species.
21324061	Bacterial blight, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), is the most destructive bacterial disease of rice. The cloned rice gene Xa21 confers resistance to a broad spectrum of Xoo races. To identify genes involved in Xa21-mediated immunity, a whole-genome oligonucleotide microarray of rice was used to profile the expression of rice genes between incompatible interactions and mock treatments at 0, 4, 8, 24, 72 and 120 h post inoculation (hpi) or between incompatible and compatible interactions at 4 hpi, respectively. A total of 441 differentially expressed genes, designated as XDGs (Xa21 mediated differentially expressed genes), were identified. Based on their functional annotations, the XDGs were assigned to 14 categories, including defense-related, signaling, transcriptional regulators. Most of the defense-related genes belonged to the pathogenesis-related gene family, which was induced dramatically at 72 and 120 hpi. Interestingly, most signaling and transcriptional regulator genes were downregulated at 4 and 8 hpi, suggesting that negative regulation of cellular signaling may play a role in the Xa21-mediated defense response. Comparison of expression profiles between Xa21- and other R gene-mediated defense systems revealed interesting common responses. Representative XDGs with supporting evidences were also discussed.
21324151	High Salinity is a major environmental stress influencing growth and development of rice. Comparative proteomic analysis of hybrid rice shoot proteins from Shanyou 10 seedlings, a salt-tolerant hybrid variety, and Liangyoupeijiu seedlings, a salt-sensitive hybrid variety, was performed to identify new components involved in salt-stress signaling. Phenotypic analysis of one protein that was upregulated during salt-induced stress, cyclophilin 2 (OsCYP2), indicated that OsCYP2 transgenic rice seedlings had better tolerance to salt stress than did wild-type seedlings. Interestingly, wild-type seedlings exhibited a marked reduction in maximal photochemical efficiency under salt stress, whereas no such change was observed for OsCYP2-transgenic seedlings. OsCYP2-transgenic seedlings had lower levels of lipid peroxidation products and higher activities of antioxidant enzymes than wild-type seedlings. Spatiotemporal expression analysis of OsCYP2 showed that it could be induced by salt stress in both Shanyou 10 and Liangyoupeijiu seedlings, but Shanyou 10 seedlings showed higher OsCYP2 expression levels. Moreover, circadian rhythm expression of OsCYP2 in Shanyou 10 seedlings occurred earlier than in Liangyoupeijiu seedlings. Treatment with PEG, heat, or ABA induced OsCYP2 expression in Shanyou 10 seedlings but inhibited its expression in Liangyoupeijiu seedlings. Cold stress inhibited OsCYP2 expression in Shanyou 10 and Liangyoupeijiu seedlings. In addition, OsCYP2 was strongly expressed in shoots but rarely in roots in two rice hybrid varieties. Together, these data suggest that OsCYP2 may act as a key regulator that controls ROS level by modulating activities of antioxidant enzymes at translation level. OsCYP2 expression is not only induced by salt stress, but also regulated by circadian rhythm. Moreover, OsCYP2 is also likely to act as a key component that is involved in signal pathways of other types of stresses-PEG, heat, cold, or ABA.
21325138	The kinesins are a family of microtubule-based motor proteins that move directionally along microtubules and are involved in many crucial cellular processes, including cell elongation in plants. Less is known about kinesins directly regulating gene transcription to affect cellular physiological processes. Here, we describe a rice (Oryza sativa) mutant, gibberellin-deficient dwarf1 (gdd1), that has a phenotype of greatly reduced length of root, stems, spikes, and seeds. This reduced length is due to decreased cell elongation and can be rescued by exogenous gibberellic acid (GA₃) treatment. GDD1 was cloned by a map-based approach, was expressed constitutively, and was found to encode the kinesin-like protein BRITTLE CULM12 (BC12). Microtubule cosedimentation assays revealed that BC12/GDD1 bound to microtubules in an ATP-dependent manner. Whole-genome microarray analysis revealed the expression of ent-kaurene oxidase (KO2), which encodes an enzyme involved in GA biosynthesis, was downregulated in gdd1. Electrophoretic mobility shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that GDD1 bound to the element ACCAACTTGAA in the KO2 promoter. In addition, GDD1 was shown to have transactivation activity. The level of endogenous GAs was reduced in gdd1, and the reorganization of cortical microtubules was altered. Therefore, BC12/GDD1, a kinesin-like protein with transcription regulation activity, mediates cell elongation by regulating the GA biosynthesis pathway in rice.
21325731	Dietary pattern may influence the risks of cardiovascular disease, atherosclerosis, type 2 diabetes, and metabolic syndrome through its effects on inflammation. We evaluated the association between dietary pattern and serum high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) in a Japanese population. In this cross-sectional analysis, we used baseline data from 3905 men and 5640 women (age 40-69 years) who participated in a population-based cohort study between November 2005 and December 2007. Participants with possible inflammation-related diseases, current analgesic use, high hs-CRP levels (≥3000 ng/mL) or extreme dietary energy intake were excluded. We used 46 items from a validated short food frequency questionnaire and examined major dietary patterns by factor analysis. We identified 5 dietary patterns: healthy (high in vegetables and fruit), Western (high in meat and fried foods), seafood (high in shellfish, squid, fish, etc.), bread (high in bread and low in rice), and dessert (high in confections and fruit). After adjustment for age, alcohol use, smoking, physical activity, and body mass index, hs-CRP levels in men were inversely associated with the healthy, bread, and dessert patterns (P-trend: 0.01, 0.06, and <0.01, respectively) and positively associated with the seafood pattern (P-trend = 0.02). In women, hs-CRP levels were inversely associated with the healthy pattern (P-trend = 0.06) and positively associated with the Western pattern (P-trend = 0.06). The healthy dietary pattern may be associated with suppressed inflammation in Japanese men and women, independently of body mass index and other factors. The sex-specific associations of hs-CRP with other dietary patterns (eg, the seafood pattern) require further study.
21327387	Rice chitinase (chi11) and tobacco osmotin (ap24) genes, which cause disruption of fungal cell wall and cell membrane, respectively, were stacked in transgenic rice to develop resistance against the sheath blight disease. The homozygous marker-free transgenic rice line CoT23 which harboured the rice chi11 transgene was sequentially re-transformed with a second transgene ap24 by co-transformation using an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain harbouring a single-copy cointegrate vector pGV2260::pSSJ1 and a multi-copy binary vector pBin19∆nptII-ap24 in the same cell. pGV2260::pSSJ1 T-DNA carried the hygromycin phosphotransferase (hph) and β-glucuronidase (gus) genes. pBin19∆nptII-ap24 T-DNA harboured the tobacco osmotin (ap24) gene. Co-transformation of the gene of interest (ap24) with the selectable marker gene (SMG, hph) occurred in 12 out of 18 T(0) plants (67%). Segregation of hph from ap24 was accomplished in the T(1) generation in one (line 11) of the four analysed co-transformed plants. The presence of ap24 and chi11 transgenes and the absence of the hph gene in the SMG-eliminated T(1) plants of the line 11 were confirmed by DNA blot analyses. The SMG-free transgenic plants of the line 11 harboured a single copy of the ap24 gene. Homozygous, SMG-free T(2) plants of the transgenic line 11 harboured stacked transgenes, chi11 and ap24. Northern blot analysis of the SMG-free plants revealed constitutive expression of chi11 and ap24. The transgenic plants with stacked transgenes displayed high levels of resistance against Rhizoctonia solani. Thus, we demonstrate the development of transgene-stacked and marker-free transgenic rice by sequential Agrobacterium-mediated co-transformation with the same SMG.
21327937	Stunted lemma palea 1 (slp1) is a rice mutant that displays dwarfism, shortened inflorescence lengths, severely degenerated lemmas/paleas, and sterility. The SLP1 locus was mapped between markers RM447 and D275 in the distal region of the long arm of chromosome 8, using the F2 progeny derived from the cross between the Slp1/slp1 mutant (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica) and the variety Taichung Native 1 (TN1, O. sativa subsp. indica). The SLP1 locus was further delimited to a 46.4-kb genomic region containing three putative genes: OsSPL16, OsMADS45, and OsMADS37. Comparisons of the sequence variations and expression levels of the three candidate genes between wild-type plants and homozygous slp1 mutants suggested that a missense mutation in the sixth amino acid of the OsSPL16 protein was likely responsible for the slp1 mutant phenotypes.
21328121	Removal of 2-chlorophenol from water using rice-straw derived ash (RSDA) was evaluated in this study to compare with commercial activated carbon. RSDA was obtained by burning rice-straw at 400 °C and 700 °C for 1 h. This ash can provide a better adsorbent for 2-chlorophenol. The adsorption capacities of RSDA at 400 °C and 700 °C are 37 and 52 mg g⁻¹ at pH 4, respectively, and decrease to 9.0 and 40 mg g⁻¹ at pH 10. Adsorption of either neutral or anionic 2-cholorphenol by the RSDA are shown as L-shaped nonlinear isotherms, suggesting surface adsorption rather than partitioning is occurring. At higher-burning temperatures, the surface area, porosity, point of zero charge and aromaticity of the resultant RSDA increase, but the oxygen content and surface acidity decrease. The combined effects result in a higher 2-chlorophenol adsorption of RSDA at 700 °C, which shows a slight pH effect on the adsorption of 2-chlorophenol, due to the lower content of oxygen-containing functional groups. Oxygen-containing functional groups contribute to surface acidity and H-bonding sites for adsorbed water, which compromises the interaction between 2-chlorophenol and the adsorbents. Thus, it suggests that rice-straw derived carbon (RSDC) can be used as an effective low-cost substitute material for activated carbon for removal of chlorophenols from wastewater.
21328945	Taking super-rice Liangyoupeijiu as test material, and by the method of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), this paper studied the changes in the leaf and grain proteomics of the variety at its late growth stage under different levels of nitrogen fertilization (1/2 times of normal nitrogen level, 20 mg x L(-1); normal nitrogen level, 40 mg x L(-1); 2 times of normal nitrogen level, 80 mg x L(-1)), with the biological functions of 16 leaf proteins, 9 inferior grain proteins, and 4 superior grain proteins identified and analyzed. Nitrogen fertilization could affect and regulate the plant photosynthesis via affecting the activation of photosynthesis-related enzymes and of CO2, the light system unit, and the constitution of electron transfer chain at the late growth stage of the variety. It could also promote the expression of the enzymes related to the energy synthesis and growth in inferior grains. High nitrogen fertilization level was not beneficial to the synthesis of starch in superior grain, but sufficient nitrogen supply was still important for the substance accumulation and metabolism. Therefore, rational nitrogen fertilization could increase the photosynthesis rate of flag leaves, enhance the source function, delay the functional early ageing, and promote the grain-filling at late growth stage.
21329772	Plant acclimation to stress is associated with profound changes in proteome composition. Since proteins are directly involved in plant stress response, proteomics studies can significantly contribute to unravel the possible relationships between protein abundance and plant stress acclimation. In this review, proteomics studies dealing with plant response to a broad range of abiotic stress factors--cold, heat, drought, waterlogging, salinity, ozone treatment, hypoxia and anoxia, herbicide treatments, inadequate or excessive light conditions, disbalances in mineral nutrition, enhanced concentrations of heavy metals, radioactivity and mechanical wounding are discussed. Most studies have been carried out on model plants Arabidopsis thaliana and rice due to large protein sequence databases available; however, the variety of plant species used for proteomics analyses is rapidly increasing. Protein response pathways shared by different plant species under various stress conditions (glycolytic pathway, enzymes of ascorbate-glutathione cycle, accumulation of LEA proteins) as well as pathways unique to a given stress are discussed. Results from proteomics studies are interpreted with respect to physiological factors determining plant stress response. In conclusion, examples of application of proteomics studies in search for protein markers underlying phenotypic variation in physiological parameters associated with plant stress tolerance are given.
21329982	A study was carried out to assess toxicological risk from the fluoride (F) exposure due to ingestion of vegetables and cereal crops such as rice and wheat grown in potentially fluoridated area (brick kiln and sodic areas), of different age groups in Unnao district, Uttar Pradesh, India. Fluoride contents in vegetables and cereal were found to be in the order brick kiln sites>sodic sites>normal sites. Among vegetables maximum F concentration was found in spinach and mint, whereas in cereal crops, wheat accumulated more F than rice. The exposure dose of F was determined using estimated daily intake (EDI) and bio-concentration factor (BCF) of F. The children of age group 3-14 years in the potentially fluoridated area were found to be at the risk of fluorosis. The mean BCF value of F was the highest in mint (36.6 mg/kg(dwt) plant/mg/kg(dwt) soil), followed by spinach (33.99 mg/kg(dwt) plant.mg/kg(dwt) soil).
21331052	Health benefits of brown rice over white rice have been described previously. However, whether the outer bran of rice contains an ingredient useful to prevent cardiovascular diseases remains unknown. The subaleurone layer of rice, which is usually lost by milling brown rice for whitening, is rich in varied nutrients, suggesting that some ingredient contained within this layer may be beneficial for the cardiovascular system. To assess potential benefits of the subaleurone layer toward pathological vascular remodeling, we examined the effects of the layer extracts from Japanese rice (Oryza sativa var. japonica) on angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced signal transduction and hypertrophy in cultured rat vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Pretreatment of the ethyl acetate extract (100 µg/ml), but not other extracts, inhibited Ang II (100 nmol/l)-induced immediate signal transduction events. Also, the extract diminished c-Fos expression and hypertrophic protein accumulation induced by Ang II in the cells. These data suggest that an ingredient in the ethyl acetate extract from the subaleurone layer of rice has a protective effect toward cardiovascular diseases by interfering with signal transduction induced by Ang II.
21331428	In order to quantitatively study the jasmonate biosynthetic pathway, we chemically synthesized a pair of isotope mass probes and established a labeling protocol. The pair of mass probes used in our work were ω-bromoacetonylpyridinium bromide (BPB) and d(5)-ω-bromoacetonylpyridinium bromide (d(5)-BPB), which contain carboxylic acid reactive groups, isotopically labeled groups and permanent positive charges. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and electrospray ionization quadrupole-time of flight mass spectrometry (ESI-QTOF-MS) were used for the detection of labeled standard mixtures and plant samples. In comparison to negative mode electrospray ionization detection of unlabeled analytes, the ESI signal of reverse charge labeled compounds was shown to improve by 20- to 80-fold. Accurate relative quantification was achieved as no isotopic effects of the different isotope labeled phytohormones during RP/SCX mixed-mode liquid chromatographic separation were observed. A data analysis method was established for analyzing metabolic pathways using our labeling strategy. We then applied our method and examined the jasmonate biosynthetic pathway of rice under salt stress and the premature senescence mutant. Here we found that under salt stress conditions, rice showed up-regulation in (13S)-hydroperoxyoctadecatrienoic acid (HOPT), cis-(+)-12-oxophytodienoic acid (OPDA), 3-oxo-2-(2'-pentenyl)-cyclopentane-1-octanoic acid (OPC-8) and jasmonoyl-valine (JA-Val) levels, while α-linolenic acid (LA) and jasmonic acid (JA) showed down-regulation, and three components (HPOT, OPC-8 and JA-Val) were accumulated. The premature senescence mutant showed up-regulation in all major components of the jasmonate biosynthetic pathway with the exception of LA, and an accumulation of HPOT, OPC-6 and JA-Val. This study demonstrates that our chemical stable isotope labeling strategy can be used as a powerful tool for metabolic pathway analysis of phytohormones in plants.
21331630	Iron (Fe) deficiency, a worldwide agricultural problem on calcareous soil with low Fe availability, is also a major human nutritional deficit. Plants induce Fe acquisition systems under conditions of low Fe availability. Previously, we reported that an Fe-deficiency-inducible basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor, OsIRO2, is responsible for regulation of the genes involved in Fe homeostasis in rice. Using promoter-GUS transformants, we showed that OsIRO2 is expressed throughout a plant's lifetime in a spatially and temporally similar manner to the genes OsNAS1, OsNAS2 and TOM1, which is involved in Fe absorption and translocation. During germination, OsIRO2 expression was detected in embryos. OsIRO2 expression in vegetative tissues was restricted almost exclusively to vascular bundles of roots and leaves, and to the root exodermis under Fe-sufficient conditions, and expanded to all tissues of roots and leaves in response to Fe deficiency. OsIRO2 expression was also detected in flowers and developing seeds. Plants overexpressing OsIRO2 grew better, and OsIRO2-repressed plants showed poor growth compared to non-transformant rice after germination. OsIRO2 overexpression also resulted in improved tolerance to low Fe availability in calcareous soil. In addition to increased Fe content in shoots, the overexpression plants accumulated higher amounts of Fe in seeds than non-transformants when grown on calcareous soil. These results suggest that OsIRO2 is synchronously expressed with genes involved in Fe homeostasis, and performs a crucial function in regulation not only of Fe uptake from soil but also Fe transport during germination and Fe translocation to grain during seed maturation.
21331890	Southern rice black-streaked dwarf virus (SRBSDV) is a novel Fijivirus prevalent in rice in southern and central China, and northern Vietnam. Its genome has 10 segments of double-stranded RNA named S1 to S10 according to their size. An isolate of SRBSDV, JNi4, was obtained from naturally infected maize plants from Ji'ning, Shandong province, in the 2008 maize season. Segments S7 to S10 of JNi4 share nucleotide identities of 72.6%-73.1%, 72.3%-73%, 73.9%-74.5% and 77.3%-79%, respectively, with corresponding segments of Rice black-streaked dwarf virus isolates, and identities of 99.7%, 99.1%-99.7%, 98.9%-99.5%, and 98.6%-99.2% with those of SRBSDV isolates HN and GD. JNi4 forms a separate branch with GD and HN in the phylogenetic trees constructed with genomic sequences of S7 to S10. These results confirm the proposed taxonomic status of SRBSDV as a distinct species of the genus Fijivirus and indicate that JNi4 is an isolate of SRBSDV. Shandong is so far the northernmost region where SRBSDV is found in China.
21331920	Two critical events are the signature of the life cycle of retroviruses (1). The first is reverse transcription, whereby the single-stranded RNA genome of the retrovirus is copied into double-stranded DNA. The second of these events is integration, whereby this viral DNA is inserted into a chromosome of the host cell, establishing what is known as the proviral state. The proviral state is required for efficient replication of retroviruses. This crucial second event is catalyzed by the integrase enzyme. Retroviruses encode the integrase at the 3' end of the pol gene. Integrase is generated by the retroviral protease as a proteolytic cleavage product of the gag-pol fusion protein precursor, and is contained in the virus particle. During viral infection, integrase catalyzes the excision of the last two nucleotides from each 3' end of the linear viral DNA, leaving the terminal dinucleotide CA-3P-OH at these recessed 3' ends. This activity is referred to as the 3'-processing or dinucleotide cleavage. After transport to the nucleus as a nucleoprotein complex ("preintegration complex"), integrase catalyzes a DNA strand transfer reaction (3'-end joining) involving the nucleophilic attack of these ends on a host chromosome. Completion of the integration process requires removal of the two unpaired nucleotides at the 5' ends of the viral DNA and gap repair reactions that are thought to be accomplished by cellular enzymes. For recent reviews, see Andrake and Skalka (2) and Rice et al. (3).
21332196	Irrigation of rice fields in Bangladesh with arsenic-contaminated groundwater transfers tens of cubic kilometers of water and thousands of tons of arsenic from aquifers to rice fields each year. Here we combine observations of infiltration patterns with measurements of porewater chemical composition from our field site in Munshiganj Bangladesh to characterize the mobility of arsenic in soils beneath rice fields. We find that very little arsenic delivered by irrigation returns to the aquifer, and that recharging water mobilizes little, if any, arsenic from rice field subsoils. Arsenic from irrigation water is deposited on surface soils and sequestered along flow paths that pass through bunds, the raised soil boundaries around fields. Additionally, timing of flow into bunds limits the transport of biologically available organic carbon from rice fields into the subsurface where it could stimulate reduction processes that mobilize arsenic from soils and sediments. Together, these results explain why groundwater irrigated rice fields act as net sinks of arsenic from groundwater.
21332832	Wholegrain grains and cereals contain a wide range of potentially protective factors that are relevant to gastrointestinal health. The prebiotics best studied are fructans [fructooligosaccharides (FOS), inulin] and galactooligosaccharides (GOS). These and other short-chain carbohydrates can also be poorly absorbed in the small intestine (named fermentable oligo-, di- and monosaccharides and polyols; FODMAPs) and may have important implications for the health of the gut. In the present study, FODMAPs, including fructose in excess of glucose, FOS (nystose, kestose), GOS (raffinose, stachyose) and sugar polyols (sorbitol, mannitol), were quantified using high-performance liquid chromatography with an evaporative light scattering detector. Total fructan was quantified using an enzymic hydrolysis method. Fifty-five commonly consumed grains, breakfast cereals, breads, pulses and biscuits were analysed. Total fructan were the most common short-chain carbohydrate present in cereal grain products and ranged (g per portion as eaten) from 1.12 g in couscous to 0 g in rice; 0.6 g in dark rye bread to 0.07 g in spelt bread; 0.96 g in wheat-free muesli to 0.11 g in oats; and 0.81 g in muesli fruit bar to 0.05 g in potato chips. Raffinose and stachyose were most common in pulses. Composition tables including FODMAPs and prebiotics (FOS and GOS) that are naturally present in food will greatly assist research aimed at understanding their physiological role in the gut.
21332845	Jasmonates play important roles in development, stress responses and defense in plants. Here, we report the results of a study using a functional genomics approach that identified a rice basic helix-loop-helix domain gene, OsbHLH148, that conferred drought tolerance as a component of the jasmonate signaling module in rice. OsbHLH148 transcript levels were rapidly increased by treatment with methyl jasmonate (MeJA) or abscisic acid, and abiotic stresses including dehydration, high salinity, low temperature and wounding. Transgenic over-expression of OsbHLH148 in rice confers plant tolerance to drought stress. Expression profiling followed by DNA microarray and RNA gel-blot analyses of transgenic versus wild-type rice identified genes that are up-regulated by OsbHLH148 over-expression. These include OsDREB and OsJAZ genes that are involved in stress responses and the jasmonate signaling pathway, respectively. OsJAZ1, a rice ZIM domain protein, interacted with OsbHLH148 in yeast two-hybrid and pull-down assays, but it interacted with the putative OsCOI1 only in the presence of coronatine. Furthermore, the OsJAZ1 protein was degraded by rice and Arabidopsis extracts in the presence of coronatine, and its degradation was inhibited by MG132, a 26S proteasome inhibitor, suggesting 26S proteasome-mediated degradation of OsJAZ1 via the SCF(OsCOI1) complex. The transcription level of OsJAZ1 increased upon exposure of rice to MeJA. These results show that OsJAZ1 could act as a transcriptional regulator of the OsbHLH148-related jasmonate signaling pathway leading to drought tolerance. Thus, our study suggests that OsbHLH148 acts on an initial response of jasmonate-regulated gene expression toward drought tolerance, constituting the OsbHLH148-OsJAZ-OsCOI1 signaling module in rice.
21335391	Microbial mats in marine cold seeps are known to be associated with ascending sulfide- and methane-rich fluids. Hence, they could be visible indicators of anaerobic oxidation of methane (AOM) and methane cycling processes in underlying sediments. The Napoli mud volcano is situated in the Olimpi Area that lies on saline deposits; from there, brine fluids migrate upward to the seafloor. Sediments associated with a brine pool and microbial orange mats of the Napoli mud volcano were recovered during the Medeco cruise. Based on analysis of RNA-derived sequences, the "active" archaeal community was composed of many uncultured lineages, such as rice cluster V or marine benthic group D. Function methyl coenzyme M reductase (mcrA) genes were affiliated with the anaerobic methanotrophic Archaea (ANME) of the ANME-1, ANME-2a, and ANME-2c groups, suggesting that AOM occurred in these sediment layers. Enrichment cultures showed the presence of viable marine methylotrophic Methanococcoides in shallow sediment layers. Thus, the archaeal community diversity seems to show that active methane cycling took place in the hypersaline microbial mat-associated sediments of the Napoli mud volcano.
21335436	Every day almost one billion people suffer from chronic hunger, and the situation is expected to deteriorate with a projected population growth to 9 billion worldwide by 2050. In order to provide adequate nutrition into the future, rice yields in Asia need to increase by 60%, a change that may be achieved by introduction of the C(4) photosynthetic cycle into rice. The international C(4) Rice Consortium was founded in order to test the feasibility of installing the C(4) engine into rice. This review provides an update on two of the many approaches employed by the C(4) Rice Consortium: namely, metabolic C(4) engineering and identification of determinants of leaf anatomy by mutant screens. The aim of the metabolic C(4) engineering approach is to generate a two-celled C(4) shuttle in rice by expressing the classical enzymes of the NADP-ME C(4) cycle in a cell-appropriate manner. The aim is also to restrict RuBisCO and glycine decarboxylase expression to the bundle sheath (BS) cells of rice in a C(4)-like fashion by specifically down-regulating their expression in rice mesophyll (M) cells. In addition to the changes in biochemistry, two-celled C(4) species show a convergence in leaf anatomy that include increased vein density and reduced numbers of M cells between veins. By screening rice activation-tagged lines and loss-of-function sorghum mutants we endeavour to identify genes controlling these key traits.
21336026	The enzymes called lipoxygenases (LOXs) can dioxygenate unsaturated fatty acids, which leads to lipoperoxidation of biological membranes. This process causes synthesis of signaling molecules and also leads to changes in cellular metabolism. LOXs are known to be involved in apoptotic (programmed cell death) pathway, and biotic and abiotic stress responses in plants. Here, the members of LOX gene family in Arabidopsis and rice are identified. The Arabidopsis and rice genomes encode 6 and 14 LOX proteins, respectively, and interestingly, with more LOX genes in rice. The rice LOXs are validated based on protein alignment studies. This is the first report wherein LOXs are identified in rice which may allow better understanding the initiation, progression and effects of apoptosis, and responses to bitoic and abiotic stresses and signaling cascades in plants.
21337010	The importance of NAC (named as NAM, ATAF1, 2, and CUC2) proteins in plant development, transcription regulation and regulatory pathways involving protein-protein interactions has been increasingly recognized. We report here the high resolution crystal structure of SNAC1 (stress-responsive NAC) NAC domain at 2.5 Å. Although the structure of the SNAC1 NAC domain shares a structural similarity with the reported structure of the ANAC NAC1 domain, some key features, especially relating to two loop regions which potentially take the responsibility for DNA-binding, distinguish the SNAC1 NAC domain from other reported NAC structures. Moreover, the dimerization of the SNAC1 NAC domain is demonstrated by both soluble and crystalline conditions, suggesting this dimeric state should be conserved in this type of NAC family. Additionally, we discuss the possible NAC-DNA binding model according to the structure and reported biological evidences.
21337235	Fumonisins are well known mycotoxins produced by Fusarium verticillioides, F. proliferatum and other Fusarium species. Many new fumonisins and fumonisin-like compounds have been detected by mass spectrometry in cultures of F. verticillioides. Recently, fumonisins B(2) and B(4) were produced by Aspergillus niger isolated from coffee and fumonisin B(2) in A. niger from grapes. Fumonisin B(2) was itself detected in coffee beans, wine and beer, adding to the list of foodstuffs and feedstuffs other than corn (maize) and sorghum in which fumonisins have been found in recent years. Fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) can bind to proteins (PB FB(1)) and to other matrix components during food processing involving heat. The occurrence of bound fumonisins in processed corn foods is common. Another type of binding (or association) relates to observed instability of fumonisins in rice flour, corn starch and corn meal at room temperature; this can affect the immunoaffinity column clean-up procedure in analysis of naturally contaminated starch-containing corn foods for fumonisins. The occurrence of N-fatty acylated fumonisin derivatives in retail fried corn foods has also been demonstrated. Bioaccessibility of free FB(1) and total bound FB(1) (TB FB(1)) present in corn flakes has been estimated by in vitro digestion experiments. Intentional binding of fumonisins to cholestyramine has been demonstrated in vivo and is a potential means of detoxification of animal feed.
21337581	A simple and quick on-site test for trace levels of cadmium (Cd) in food is needed because of the human toxicity of this heavy metal. We developed an immunochromatography kit which uses the antigen-antibody complex reaction between the Cd-ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (Cd-EDTA) complex and an anti-Cd-EDTA antibody. We previously reported the successful use of this kit to determine Cd concentrations in brown rice with respect to the international standard: 0.4 mg kg⁻¹. Here, we measured, using this immunochromatography kit, Cd concentrations in crops with lower international standards than rice. Cadmium extracted with 0.1 mol L⁻¹ HCl from wheat grain and fresh eggplant was purified sufficiently using an ion-exchange column treatment. Appropriate HCl extraction rates and dilution rates for the column eluate were selected; Cd concentrations in wheat grain and fresh eggplant were determined successfully by immunochromatography with respect to the international standards of 0.2 mg kg⁻¹ and 0.05 mg kg⁻¹ fresh weight, respectively. Approximate Cd concentrations in wheat grain and fresh eggplant can be monitored easily and quickly by this method at locations where facilities for acid digestion and precision analysis are not available.
21337583	The bran part of red rice grain is concentrated with many phytochemicals, including proanthocyanidins, oryzanol and vitamin E, that exert beneficial effects on human health, but it contains low levels of essential minerals such as Fe and Zn. In the present study, the protein, lipid, phytochemicals and mineral contents in bran samples were compared among red rice SA-586 and its NaN₃-induced mutants. The plant heights of NaN₃-induced mutants were decreased. The contents of protein, lipid, total phenolics, total flavonoids, total anthocyanins, total proanthocyanidins, total γ-oryzanol, total tocopherols and total tocotrienols also varied among the tested mutants. The brans of mutants M-18, M-56 and M-50 contained more proanthocyanidins, γ-oryzanol, vitamin E than that of SA-586, respectively. M-54 accumulated more Fe content (588.7 mg kg⁻¹ bran dry weight) than SA-586 (100.1 mg kg⁻¹ bran dry weight). The brans of M-18, M-50 and M-56 are good sources of proanthocyanidins, vitamin E and γ-oryzanol, respectively, while the bran of M-54 is rich in Fe. Thus these mutants could be used to produce high-value phytochemicals or Fe byproducts from bran during rice grain milling or as genetic resources for rice improvement programs.
21337674	The compatibility and outcrossing rates between transgenic rice and weedy rice biotypes have been studied in some previous cases. However, few studies have addressed the reasons for these differences. The present study compared the compatibility and outcrossing rates between transgenic rice and selected weedy rice biotypes using manual and natural crossing experiments to elucidate the key innate factors causing the different outcrossing rates. Hybrid seed sets from manual crossing between transgenic rice and weedy rice varied from 31.8 to 82.7%, which correlated directly with genetic compatibility. Moreover, the significant differences in the quantity of germinated donor pollens and pollen tubes entering the weedy rice ovule directly contributed to the different seed sets. The natural outcrossing rates varied from 0 to 6.66‰. The duration of flowering overlap was the key factor influencing natural outcrossing. Plant and panicle height also affected outcrossing success. From this study, it is concluded that the likelihood of gene flow between transgenic rice and weedy rice biotypes is primarily determined by floral synchronisation and secondarily influenced by genetic compatibility and some morphological characteristics.
21338466	High cytosolic concentrations of Na+ inhibit plant growth and development. To maintain low cytosolic concentrations of Na+ , higher plants use membrane-bound transporters that drive the efflux of Na+ or partition Na+ ions from the cytosol, either to the extracellular compartment or into the vacuole. Bryophytes also use an energy-dependent Na+ pumping ATPase, not found in higher plants, to efflux Na+ . To investigate whether this transporter can increase the salt tolerance of crop plants, Oryza sativa has been transformed with the Physcomitrella patens Na+ pumping ATPase (PpENA1). When grown in solutions containing 50 mm NaCl, plants constitutively expressing the PpENA1 gene are more salt tolerant and produce greater biomass than controls. Transgenics and controls accumulate similar amounts of Na+ in leaf and root tissues under stress, which indicates that the observed tolerance is not because of Na+ exclusion. Moreover, inductively coupled plasma analysis reveals that the concentration of other ions in the transformants and the controls is similar. The transgenic lines are developmentally normal and fertile, and the transgene expression levels remain stable in subsequent generations. GFP reporter fusions, which do not alter the ability of PpENA1 to complement a salt-sensitive yeast mutant, indicate that when it is expressed in plant tissues, the PpENA1 protein is located in the plasma membrane. PpENA1 peptides are found in plasma membrane fractions supporting the plasma membrane targeting. The results of this study demonstrate the utility of PpENA1 as a potential tool for engineering salinity tolerance in important crop species.
21338950	Lesion mimic is necrotic lesions on plant leaf or stem in the absence of pathogenic infection, and its exact biological mechanism is varied. By a large-scale screening of our T-DNA mutant population, we identified a mutant rice lesion initiation 1 (rlin1), which was controlled by a single nuclear recessive gene. Map-based cloning revealed that RLIN1 encoded a putative coproporphyrinogen III oxidase in tetrapyrrole biosynthesis pathway. Sequencing results showed that a G to T substitution occurred in the second exon of RLIN1 and led to a missense mutation from Asp to Tyr. Ectopic expression of RLIN1 could rescue rlin1 lesion mimic phenotype. Histochemical analysis demonstrated that lesion formation in rlin1 was light-dependent accompanied by reactive oxygen species accumulated. These results suggest that tetrapyrrole participates in lesion formation in rice.
21339130	Germinated brown rice (GBR) of two popular Thailand varieties, Khao Dawk Mali 105 (KDML 105) and Chainat 1, with improved nutritional composition, was obtained by optimizing water soaking conditions. Different water pH (3, 4, 6 and 8), temperatures (25 °C, 35 °C and 45 °C), and soaking times (12 and 24 h) were tested. Using the response surface methodology (RSM), the best condition for producing GBR of both varieties was soaking in water with pH 6 and temperature of 35 °C for 24 h. It caused a 4- to 5-fold increase in gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) content which, together with protein and lipid contents, were highest among treatments. Intermediate levels of thiamine (vitamin B1) and phytic acid (IP6) were obtained. In GBR of KDML 105 variety, GABA, vitamin B1 and IP6 contents were 16.48, 0.526 and 501.06 mg/100 g, respectively, while protein and lipid contents were 10.50% and 4.00%, respectively. For Chainat 1 variety, GABA, vitamin B1 and IP6 contents were 14.50, 0.436 and 486.03 mg/100 g, respectively, while protein and lipid contents were 9.80% and 3.99%, respectively. Carbohydrate and amylose contents differed by only less than 1-2% among treatments. Supplemental aeration during water soaking decreased GABA, protein and lipid contents, but increased vitamin B1 and IP6 contents in both varieties. Furthermore, cooked GBR of both varieties had softer texture than cooked ordinary brown rice.
21339141	Despite being a rich source of starch, root crops such as cassava and sweet potato have not been widely exploited for the production of high fructose syrup (HFS), which is a highly valued sweetener for the food and beverage industries. The major factors contributing to the cost of production of HFS are the cost and labor-intensive steps in the production of starch, different processing temperatures and pH for the enzyme reactions, poor extractability of starch, etc. With the objective of overcoming the cost associated with the preparation of starch, the feasibility of using native cassava/sweet potato flours and their blends with rice flour and wheat flour, as the raw material for HFS production was investigated. The saccharified slurry from cassava--rice flour blends contained 70-72 g reducing sugars/100 g, which was higher than that released from native cassava flour (~69%). Blends of sweet potato with rice or wheat yielded saccharified mash with lower content of reducing sugars (60-66%). Although the percentage conversion to fructose after isomerization was similar for cassava/sweet potato or their blends with cereal flours (42-43%), fructose yield was higher in native cassava flour and cassava-rice blends (28-29 g/100 g) than the other flour blends.
21339150	This study was designed to investigate the free and bound phenolic acids as well as their antioxidant activities in husk of 12 Thai rice varieties consisting of pigmented rice and normal rice. The pigmented rice husk gave higher free total phenolic contents than normal rice husk. However, there was no significant difference in bound total phenolic contents between pigmented rice and normal rice husks. Ferulic and p-coumaric acids were the major phenolic acids in the free fraction of pigmented rice husks, whereas vanillic acid was the dominant phenolic acid in the free fraction of normal rice husks. On the other hand, p-coumaric acid was highly found in bound form of both pigmented and normal rice husks. The antioxidant activity of husk extracts was positively correlated with the total free phenolics content and individual of phenolic acids especially ferulic acid. On the basis of this study, it is suggested that the rice husk could be a potential phenolic acid source and may therefore offer an effective source of natural antioxidant. Our findings provide valuable information on phenolic acids composition and antioxidant activity of husk for further food application.
21340012	Microsatellite loci were isolated from the genomic DNA of the Asian rice gall midge, Orseolia oryzae (Wood-Mason) using a hybridization capture approach. A total of 90 non-redundant primer pairs, representing unique loci, were designed. These simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers represented di (72%), tri (15.3%), and complex repeats (12.7%). Three biotypes of gall midge (20 individuals for each biotype) were screened using these SSRs. The results revealed that 15 loci were hyper variable and showed polymorphism among different biotypes of this pest. The number of alleles ranged from two to 11 and expected heterozygosity was above 0.5. Inheritance studies with three markers (observed to be polymorphic between sexes) revealed sex linked inheritance of two SSRs (Oosat55 and Oosat59) and autosomal inheritance of one marker (Oosat43). These markers will prove to be a useful tool to devise strategies for integrated pest management and in the study of biotype evolution in this important rice pest.
21340457	A simple and reliable analytical method for analysis of fluroxypyr-meptyl residue in rice, soil and water was investigated. The residue levels and dissipation rates of fluroxypyr-meptyl (34% AS) were determined by GC-MSD in selected ion monitoring mode. In the supervised field trials, the half-life of fluroxypyr- meptyl in rice plant was in the range 1.25-4.13 days. The half-lives of fluroxypyr-meptyl in soil and water were 2.29 and 1.73 days, respectively. In order to assess the dissipation of fluroxypyr-meptyl in the environment, a laboratory simulated experiment was carried out in soil and water. The terminal residues of fluroxypyr-meptyl in rice plant, husked rice, rice hull and soil samples were undetectable at harvest. It showed that fluroxypyr-meptyl may be safe to use according to the recommended dosage suggested by the corporation.
21340534	Biomass was pretreated with proton beam irradiation (PBI) in order to enhance enzyme digestibility. Rice straw and soaking in aqueous ammonia (SAA)-treated rice straw were treated with 1-25 kGy doses of PBI at a beam energy of 45 MeV. The optimal doses of PBI for efficient sugar recovery were 15 and 3 kGy for rice straw and SAA-treated rice straw, respectively. When PBI was applied to rice straw at 15 kGy, the glucose conversion reached 68% of the theoretical maximum at 72 h. When 3 kGy of PBI was applied to SAA-treated rice straw, approximately 90% of the theoretical glucose conversion was obtained at 12 h compared to a 89% conversion at 48 h. After 2 h of enzymatic saccharification, the initial reaction rates of raw rice straw pretreated with 15 kGy of PBI and SAA-treated rice straw pretreated with 3 kGy of PBI were 1.4 × 10⁻⁴ and 9.7 × 10⁻⁴ g L⁻¹ s⁻¹, respectively. Further, the results of X-ray diffractometry support the effect of PBI on sugar recovery, whereas scanning electron microscopy images revealed a more rugged rice straw surface.
21340550	The impacts of elevated CO(2) and temperature on microbial biomass and soil enzyme activities in four physicochemically different types of tropical rice soils (Aeric Endoaquept, Aeric Tropoaquept, Ultic Haplustalf and Udic Rhodostalf) were investigated in a laboratory incubation study. Soil samples were incubated under 400, 500 and 600 μmol mol(-1) CO(2) concentration at 25°C, 35°C and 45°C for 2 months. Elevated CO(2) significantly increased the mean microbial biomass carbon (MBC) content, across the soils, over control by 6.2%, 38.0% and 49.2% at 400, 500 and 600 μmol mol(-1) CO(2) concentration, respectively. Soil enzyme activities (fluorescein diacetate hydrolase, dehydrogenase, β-glucosidase, urease, alkaline and acid phosphatases) also increased significantly ranging from 1.3% (urease) to 53.2% (alkaline phosphatase) under high CO(2) in the soils studied. Both MBC and soil enzyme activities were further stimulated at high temperatures suggesting elevated CO(2) and high temperature interaction accelerated the general turnover of the organic C fractions of the soil and through increase in microbially mediated processes.
2134143	For the purpose of providing possible solutions to the malnutrition problems affecting those populations where cereals and tubers form an important portion of their daily intake, products were prepared from dehydrated mixtures of cereals and under-utilized fish, but which contain high-quality protein. Two cereals were selected for our experiments: rice and corn, and a marine under-utilized fish species (Macrodon ancyclodon). The minced fish muscle recovered by mechanical deboning was mixed with the cereal, obtaining mixtures with 5%, 10% and 15% fish on a dry basis. Feeding experiments using Wistar weaning rats were then carried out to evaluate the most important characteristics. An amino acid profile which reflected high-quality protein was obtained, as evidenced by the excellent PER, NPU, NPR and digestibility values determined. The dehydrated mixtures of fish/cereal flour prepared with 5% and up to 10% fish (dry basis), did not present any odour, but as of the 15% level, fish odour was perceived. Therefore, the use of dehydrated mixtures of fish/cereal flours with up to 10% fish in preparing food products, is recommended, since these would be of great help in solving the scarcity of good-quality protein, particularly in the developing countries.
21341625	Determination of the glycaemic index (GI) of different basic foods in combination with different curries. METHODS; Healthy volunteers (n = 20) of 21.05 (+/- 0.92) years old, 53.90 (+/- 9.36) kg in body weight, 153.92 (+/- 9.15) cm in height and 20.55 (+/- 2.22) kgm(-2) of body mass index were included. After overnight fasting, 75g of glucose and each test food containing 75g of digestible carbohydrate were administered and blood glucose level measured half hourly for two hours. The GI was calculated and analysed by randomised complete block design using SAS analytical package. The mean GI values of parboiled rice ('Mottaikarupan') either with green leaf curry (Amaranthus) or gravy (soya meat) or green leaf curry and gravy were 47.47 (+/- 11.21), 56.30 (+/- 9.31) and 54.67 (+/- 10.03) % respectively. The mean GI of 'kurakkan pittu' (Eleucine coracana) with the above curries were 57.51 (+/- 5.52), 63.25 (+/- 8.86) and 59.25 (+/- 5.49) % respectively. The mean GI of 'atta pittu' (whole wheat grain flour) with the above curries were 44.40 (+/-14.27), 50.80 (+/- 9.35) and 46.29 (+/- 8.90) % respectively. The GI of parboiled rice or 'kurakkan pittu' or 'atta pittu' with green leaf curry differed significantly (p < 0.05) from other combined foods. The GI of parboiled rice or 'kurakkan pittu' or 'atta pittu' with gravy or green leaf curry and gravy did not differ significantly (p > 0.05) among them. 'Kurakkan pittu' is inferior to 'atta pittu' and parboiled rice. Including curries to basic foods altered the GI. Therefore, when dietary advice is given to diabetic patients, not only the basic foods, but also the curries to be consumed have to be considered.
21342078	Statin-induced myopathy is an important cause of statin intolerance and the most common cause of statin discontinuation. Observational studies estimate that 10 - 15% of statin users develop statin-related muscle side effects ranging from mild myalgia to more severe muscle symptoms with significant CPK elevations. This article reviews the epidemiology, clinical features, risk factors and mechanisms of statin-induced myopathy and provides an evidence-based algorithm for managing patients with statin myopathy. There are multiple risk factors for statin-induced myopathy that are both patient-related (age, genetics, co-morbidities) and drug-related (statin metabolism via the CYP system, drug-drug interactions and statin drug transport). Management options for statin-intolerant patients include statin switching, especially to low-dose, non-daily doses of long-acting statins, such as rosuvastatin and atorvastatin, and other non-statin lipid-lowering agents, such as ezetimibe and colesevelam, and possibly red yeast rice. In conclusion, statin-induced myopathy is a significant clinical problem that contributes considerably to statin therapy discontinuation. However, there exist multiple and effective management options for statin intolerant patients.
21344804	To compare physical fitness between rice farmers with chronic low back pain (CLBP) and a healthy control group. Sixty-eight rice farmers with CLBP were matched according to age and sex with healthy farmers. All subjects underwent nine physical fitness tests for body composition, lifting capacity, static back extensor endurance, leg strength, static abdominal endurance, handgrip strength, hamstring flexibility, posterior leg and back muscles flexibility and abdominal flexibility. There was no significant difference between CLBP and healthy groups for all tests, except the static back extensor endurance. The back extensor endurance times of the CLBP group was significantly lower than that of the control group (p = 0.002). Static back extensor endurance is the deficient physical fitness in CLBP rice farmers. Back extensor endurance training should be emphasized in both prevention and rehabilitation programs.
21345551	A dynamic compartment model was investigated to describe (14)C accumulation in rice plants exposed to atmospheric (14)C with temporally changing concentrations. In the model, rice plants were regarded to consist of three compartments: the ear and the mobile and immobile carbon pools of the shoot. Photosynthetically fixed carbon moves into the ear and the mobile carbon pool, and these two compartments release a part of this carbon into the atmosphere by respiration. Carbon accumulated in the mobile carbon pool is redistributed to the ear, while carbon transferred into the immobile carbon pool from the mobile one is accumulated there until harvest. The model was examined by cultivation experiments using the stable isotope, (13)C, in which the ratios of carbon photosynthetically fixed at nine times during plant growth to the total carbon at the time of harvest were determined. The model estimates of the ratios were in relatively good agreement with the experimental observations, which implies that the newly developed compartment model is applicable to estimate properly the radiation dose to the neighboring population due to an accidental release of (14)C from nuclear facilities.
21346103	Rice is a staple food in Japan and provides 43% of carbohydrate and 29% of energy intake in the Japanese population. In a prospective study encompassing 83,752 Japanese men and women aged 40-79 y, rice intake was determined by self-administered FFQ. Median follow-up time was 14.1 y from 1988-1990 to the end of 2003, and HR and 95% CI of mortality were calculated according to quintiles of energy-adjusted rice intake. A total of 3514 cardiovascular deaths [1640 strokes, 707 coronary heart disease (CHD), and 560 heart failure] were documented. There was a gender difference on the effect of rice intake on the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Overall, rice intake was inversely associated with CHD, heart failure, and total CVD in men but not in women. Rice intake was not associated with risk of stroke in either gender. The multivariable HR (95% CI) for the extreme quintiles of rice intake in men were 0.70 [(0.49-0.99); P-trend = 0.02] for CHD, 0.70 [(0.46-1.05); P-trend = 0.05] for heart failure, and 0.82 [(0.70-0.97); P-trend = 0.006] for total CVD. For women, rice was not associated with reduced risk of mortality from CVD after adjusting for lifestyle and dietary variables. In conclusion, the consumption of steamed rice was associated with reduced risk of mortality from CVD in Japanese men but not women. This finding necessitates further investigations on the mechanisms leading to this gender difference.
21347307	Plant apoplast is the prime site for signal perception and defense response, and of great importance in responding to environmental stresses. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) plays a pivotal role in determining the responsiveness of cells to stress. However, how the apoplast proteome changes under oxidative condition is largely unknown. In this study, we initiated a comparative proteomic analysis to explore H(2)O(2)-responsive proteins in the apoplast of rice seedling roots. 14-day-old rice seedlings were treated with low concentrations (300 and 600 µM) of H(2)O(2) for 6 h and the levels of relative electrolyte leakage, malondialdehyde and H(2)O(2) were assayed in roots. The modified vacuum infiltration method was used to extract apoplast proteins of rice seedling roots, and then two-dimensional electrophoresis gel analysis revealed 58 differentially expressed protein spots under low H(2)O(2) conditions. Of these, 54 were successfully identified by PMF or MS/MS as matches to 35 different proteins including known and novel H(2)O(2)-responsive proteins. Almost all of these identities (98%) were indeed apoplast proteins confirmed either by previous experiments or through publicly available prediction programs. These proteins identified are involved in a variety of processes, including redox homeostasis, cell wall modification, signal transduction, cell defense and carbohydrate metabolism, indicating a complex regulative network in the apoplast of seedling roots under H(2)O(2) stress. The present study is the first apoplast proteome investigation of plant seedlings in response to H(2)O(2) and may be of paramount importance for the understanding of the plant network to environmental stresses. Based on the abundant changes in these proteins, together with their putative functions, we proposed a possible protein network that provides new insights into oxidative stress response in the rice root apoplast and clues for the further functional research of target proteins associated with H(2)O(2) response.
21347727	Fatty aldehydes are an important group of fragrance and flavor compounds that are found in different fruits and flowers. A biotechnological synthesis of fatty aldehydes based on Escherichia coli cells expressing an α-dioxygenase (αDOX) from Oryza sativa (rice) is presented. α-Dioxygenases are the initial enzymes of α-oxidation in plants and oxidize long and medium-chain C(n) fatty acids to 2-hydroperoxy fatty acids. The latter are converted to C(n-1) fatty aldehydes by spontaneous decarboxylation. Successful expression of αDOX in E. coli was proven by an in vitro luciferase assay. Using resting cells of this recombinant E. coli strain, conversion of different fatty acids to the respective fatty aldehydes shortened by one carbon atom was demonstrated. The usage of Triton X 100 improves the conversion rate up to 1 g aldehyde per liter per hour. Easy reuse of the cells was demonstrated by performing a second biotransformation without any loss of biocatalytic activity.
21347849	The aims of this study were to evaluate the implication of food allergy as a cause of paediatric constipation and to determine the diet period needed to tolerate the constipation-causing foods. Fifty-four children aged 6 months to 14 years (median, 42 months) suffering from chronic constipation (without anatomic abnormalities, cοeliac disease or hypothyroidism), unresponsive to a 3-month laxative therapy, were prospectively evaluated. All participants were evaluated for allergy to cow's milk, egg, wheat, rice, corn, potato, chicken, beef and soy, using skin tests (SPT), serum specific IgE and atopy patch test (APT). A withdrawal of the APT-positive foods was instructed. Thirty-two children had positive APT; 15 were positive to one; six, to two and 11, to three or more food allergens, wheat and egg being the commonest. After withdrawing the APT-positive foods for an 8-week period, constipation had improved in 28/32 children, but a relapse of constipation was noticed after an oral food challenge, so they continued the elimination diet. Tolerance to food allergens was achieved in only 6/28 after 6 months, compared to 25/28 after 12 months and to all after a 2-year-long elimination. Food allergy seems to be a significant etiologic factor for chronic constipation not responding to treatment, in infants and young children. APT was found to be useful in evaluating non-IgE allergy-mediated constipation, and there was no correlation of APT with IgE detection. Tolerance was adequately achieved after 12 months of strict food allergen elimination.
21349582	Field-OTC experiments were conducted with the goals of ascertaining if increased biomass in Bt transgenic cotton and rice grown under elevated CO(2) results in diminished exogenous-Bt toxin, and assessing the effectiveness of Bt transgenes against lepidopteran pests. Bt cotton responded differently, in terms of Bt-toxin quantity, than Bt rice, and both indicated differences among developmental stages. Dramatic biomass increase significantly diluted Bt-toxin content in 45-DAS ("days after seedling") petioles and shoots and 90-DAS Bt cotton squares, and in the 50-DAS tissues and 100-DAS leaf sheaths of Bt rice. Moreover, the dilution effect was partially responsible for decreased Bt-toxin in these tissues, but not responsible for significant decreases in Bt-toxin in 90-DAS Bt cotton leaves and bolls. Furthermore, elevated CO(2) significantly affected the fitness and performance of Chilo suppressalis, and the susceptible and resistant colonies of Helicoverpa armigera, although adversely affected Bt-gene expression for the transgenic cotton and rice.
21349615	In China, total Hg (HgT) and methylmercury (MeHg) were quantified in rice grain grown in three sites using water-saving rice cultivation methods, and in one Hg-contaminated site, where rice was grown under flooded conditions. Polished white rice concentrations of HgT (water-saving: 3.3±1.6 ng/g; flooded: 110±9.2 ng/g) and MeHg (water-saving 1.3±0.56 ng/g; flooded: 12±2.4 ng/g) were positively correlated with root-soil HgT and MeHg contents (HgT: r2=0.97, MeHg: r2=0.87, p<0.05 for both), which suggested a portion of Hg species in rice grain was derived from the soil, and translocation of Hg species from soil to rice grain was independent of irrigation practices and Hg levels, although other factors may be important. Concentrations of HgT and other trace elements were significantly higher in unmilled brown rice (p<0.05), while MeHg content was similar (p>0.20), indicating MeHg infiltrated the endosperm (i.e., white rice) more efficiently than inorganic Hg(II).
21349633	An outdoor lysimeter experiment was conducted to investigate the fate of 14C-labeled phenanthrene in the soil planted with wheat and rice in rotation. Results showed that applied 14C-activity in the soil decreased mainly through gaseous losses; 67.5% of it evaporated as 14CO2. After the rice harvest, the surface soil retained 21.7% of applied 14C-activity, of which 92.4% remained in nonextractable soil residues. The 14C-activities found in deeper layers of the soil column indicated vertical migration of phenanthrene or metabolites. Furthermore, the 14C-activities detected in five organs of mature wheat or rice decreased in the order: roots > leaves > shells>stems > grains. The vertical migration and its accumulation by grains suggest that PAHs in field have adverse effects on the security of groundwater and food.
21350394	The role of sulfur on the availability of Cu and the bacterial community in rice rhizospheres was investigated by pot experiments. With sulfur addition, pH in rhizosphere soil decreased and Mg(NO₃)₂ extractable Cu increased significantly. The bacterial community composition also changed with sulfur addition. Some specific clones having high similarity to Thiobacillus, which indicated that sulfur oxidation in the rice rhizosphere could increase the availability of Cu. These results suggested that sulfur source which could provide substrate to sulfur oxidizing bacteria and enhance the availability of Cu was not a suitable sulfur fertilizer for Cu polluted soil.
21350781	Emission from field burning of agricultural crop residue is a common environmental hazard observed in northern India. It has a significant potential health risk for the rural population due to respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM). A study on eight stage size segregated mass distribution of RSPM was done for 2 wheat and 3 rice crop seasons. The study was undertaken at rural and agricultural sites of Patiala (India) where the RSPM levels remained close to the National Ambient Air quality standards (NAAQS). Fine particulate matter (PM(2.5)) contributed almost 55% to 64% of the RSPM, showing that, in general, the smaller particles dominated during the whole study period with more contribution during the rice crop as compared to that of wheat crop residue burning. Fine particulate matter content in the total RSPM increased with decrease in temperature. Concentration levels of PM(10) and PM(2.5) were higher during the winter months as compared to that in the summer months. Background concentration levels of PM(10), PM(2.5) and PM(10-2.5) were found to be around 97 ± 21, 57 ± 15 and 40 ± 6 μg m(-3), respectively. The levels increased up to 66, 78 and 71% during rice season and 51, 43 and 61% during wheat crop residue burning, respectively. Extensive statistical analysis of the data was done by using pair t-test. Overall results show that the concentration levels of different size particulate matter are greatly affected by agricultural crop residue burning but the total distribution of the particulate matter remains almost constant.
2135090	It is considered that the appearance of Silent Period (SP) during food crushing may relieve tissue injury caused by sudden change of maxillo-mandibular impactive force. In connection with this phenomenon, the relation between changes in vertical velocity of mandibular movement and the appearance of SP during food crushing was investigated. In addition, efforts were made to clarify the influences of lack of periodontal pressoreceptive information on the appearance of SP. Subjects were ten males (aged 24 to 31) with natural dentition and no masticatory dysfunction. Electromyograms were recorded on 4 lead locations: the central parts of each masseter and the anterior bundles of each temporal muscle. A Mandibular Kinesiograph and electromyograph were used to record simultaneously mandibular movement and myoelectric discharge during food crushing for the sake of comparing changes in mandibular position, vertical velocity of mandibular movement and muscular activity. Eight kinds of foods of various textures were selected for use in the examinations: dry macaroni, rice cracker, raw carrot, pickled thistle root, pickled radish, raisin, synthetic rubber block and softened chewing gum. The food was positioned on the occlusal table of the lower first molar on the habitual masticatory side of each subject. Then the subject was required to close his mouth rapidly to crush the food at a single masticatory stroke. Two experimental conditions were established in order to clarify the significance of periodontal pressoreceptive information on the appearance of SP: (1) normalcy and (2) infiltration anesthesia of the periodontal tissues of the upper and lower first-molar region on the habitual masticatory side. Results 1. SP appeared during a single masticatory stroke in response to sudden decreases or increases of vertical velocity of mandibular movement. 2. The frequency of the appearance of SP depends on the crushing characteristics of the food which is tested. For softened chewing gum and the synthetic rubber block, only one SP occurred; two SPs occurred in the cases of pickled radish and raisin; three SPs in the cases of raw carrot and pickled thistle root; and more than four SPs in the cases of dry macaroni and rice cracker. 3. Lack of periodontal pressoreceptive information resulting from anesthesia had no effect on the appearance of SP. 1. Sudden changes in vertical velocity of mandibular movement may depend on the crushing characteristics of the food which is crushed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
2135155	The study was carried out on 1466 subjects, whose ages ranged from 20 to 80 years of age, of whom 1181 were dentulous and 285 were complete dentures. We studied the frequency with which the 1466 cases partook of food. The results were as follows: 1) Ingested foods were classified into 10 groups along with the frequency with which they were ingested on a yearly seasonal basis. Food groups were classified as follows: vegetables, grain, sea food, beans, meat, seaweed, potatoes, fruits, etc. 2) The Ingested foods of the dentulous group were similar to those of the complete denture wearers. 3) In all age groups the foods most ingested were: steamed rice, wakame, tofu, bread, scallions, Japanese omelette, and tomatoes. 4) The younger subjects (20 to 39 years) statistically ate significantly lower amounts of steamed rice than did the older age groups. 5) The younger generation ate more meat, while the older groups ate more sea food.
21351578	The transcription factor of ethylene responsive factor binding protein (ERF) is belonged to AP2/ERF superfamily, which is known to be unique in plants. AP2/ERF proteins have important functions in the transcriptional regulation of a variety of biological processes related to growth and development, as well as various responses to environmental stimuli. An ERF gene from Salvia miltiorrhiza is cloned and divided into ERF gene family group VII of Arabidopsis and Rice. It contains a MCGGAI (I/L) motif referred to as CMVII-1 and a single intron in the 5'-flanking region of the AP2/ERF domain. Sequence analysis reveals that the region of second extron has abundant polymorphism sites. There are 21 single nucleotide polymorphism sites (SNPs) in the 264 bp region, among them, 14 SNPs are synonymous substitutions and 7 SNPs are non-synonymous substitutions. Though analysis of 181 samples from Shandong, Shaanxi and Sichuan Provinces, it reveals that each production area has its own special genotypes, 5 SNPs show significant difference. Cluster based on UPGMA method reveals that different populations from specific province have clustered together. It shows that SmERF gene will be a candidate molecular marker for the identification of Salvia miltiorrhiza from different areas.
21351731	Protein isolates extracted from differently stabilized rice bran were analyzed to work out the food use potential. Bulk density remained higher for isolates obtained from heat stabilized bran, the treatments were found to have positive impact on the oil absorption properties, while the water absorption was slightly impaired owing to some possible configurational changes. Surface hydrophobicity and emulsion properties were improved with bran stabilization. Isolates exhibited better foaming properties owing to the flexible nature of protein molecules, with less intensive disulfide bonding, that were slightly affected by the stabilization treatment. Nitrogen solubility index followed a curved pattern with the least value near isoelectric point that showed an increasing trend toward basic pH, and parboiled protein isolates exhibited better gelling properties among the isolates.
21351774	The microbial degradation of etofenprox, an ether pyrethroid, was characterized under anaerobic (flooded) and aerobic (nonflooded) California rice field soil conditions by determination of its half-life (t1/2) and dissipation rate constant (k) and identification and quantification of degradation products at both 22 and 40 °C using LC-MS/MS. The overall anaerobic t1/2 at 22 °C ranged from 49.1 to 100 days (k=-0.0141 to -0.0069 days(-1)) compared to 27.0 days (k=-0.0257 days(-1)) at 40 °C, whereas under aerobic conditions the overall t1/2 was 27.5 days (k=-0.0252 days(-1)) at 22 °C compared to 10.1-26.5 days (k=-0.0686 to -0.0262 days(-1)) at 40 °C. The biphasic dissipation profiles were also fit to a first-order model to determine the t1/2 and k for both the fast and slow kinetic regions of the dissipation curves. Hydroxylation at the 4'-position of the phenoxy phenyl ring was the major metabolic process under anaerobic conditions for both 22 °C (maximum% yield of applied etofenprox mass=1.3±0.7%) and 40 °C (max % yield=1.2±0.8%). Oxidation of the ether moiety to the ester was the major metabolite under aerobic conditions at 22 °C (max% yield=0.5±0.1%), but at 40 °C increased amounts of the hydroxylated form were produced (max% yield=0.7±0.2%, compared to 0.3±0.1% for the ester). The hydrolytic product of the ester, 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (3-PBA), was not detected in any samples. Sterilized control soils showed little etofenprox degradation over the 56-day incubation period. Thus, the microbial population in a flooded soil was able to transform and contribute to the overall dissipation of etofenprox. The simulated summer temperature extreme (40 °C) increased the overall degradation.
21352234	• Peroxidases are involved in several important processes, such as development and responses to environmental cues. In higher plants, most peroxidases are encoded by large, multigenic families that mainly originated from gene and chromosomal duplications. • Using phylogenetic, genomic and functional analyses, we have identified and characterized a new class of putative heme peroxidases, called ascorbate peroxidase-related (APx-R), which arose specifically in the lineage of plants. • The APx-R protein is structurally related to the ascorbate peroxidases, although the active site contains many conserved substitutions. Unlike all other plant peroxidases, which are encoded by gene families, APx-R is encoded by a single-copy gene in virtually all the species analyzed. APx-R proteins are targeted to the chloroplast and can physically interact with chloroplastic APx proteins. APx-R-knockdown rice (Oryza sativa) plants presented delayed development and a disturbed steady state of the antioxidant system compared with wild type. Moreover, the accumulation of APx-R transcripts was modulated by drought, UV irradiation, cold, and aluminum exposure in rice, suggesting the involvement of APx-R in the environmental stress response. • Our results reveal the existence of a new class of heme peroxidase which seems to play a role in the antioxidant system in plants, probably by modulating the activity of chloroplastic APx proteins.
21352554	MicroRNAs are important components of the regulatory network of biological systems and thousands have been discovered in both animals and plants. Systematic investigations performed in species with sequenced genomes such as Arabidopsis, rice, poplar and Brachypodium have provided insights into the evolutionary relationships of this class of small RNAs among plants. However, miRNAs from barley, one of the most important cereal crops, remain unknown. We performed a large scale study of barley miRNAs through deep sequencing of small RNAs extracted from leaves of two barley cultivars. By using the presence of miRNA precursor sequences in related genomes as one of a number of supporting criteria, we identified up to 100 miRNAs in barley. Of these only 56 have orthologs in wheat, rice or Brachypodium that are known to be expressed, while up to 44 appear to be specifically expressed in barley. Our study, the first large scale investigation of small RNAs in barley, has identified up to 100 miRNAs. We demonstrate that reliable identification of miRNAs via deep sequencing in a species whose genome has not been sequenced requires a more careful analysis of sequencing errors than is commonly performed. We devised a read filtering procedure for dealing with errors. In addition, we found that the use of a large dataset of almost 35 million reads permits the use of read abundance distributions along putative precursor sequences as a practical tool for isolating miRNAs in a large background of reads originating from other non-coding and coding RNAs. This study therefore provides a generic approach for discovering novel miRNAs where no genome sequence is available.
21352959	Tissue culture is one of the tools necessary for genetic engineering and many other breeding programs. Moreover, selection of high regenerating rice varieties is a pre-requisite for success in rice biotechnology. In this report we established a reproducible plant regeneration system through somatic embryogenesis. The explants used for regeneration were embryogenic calli derived from mature seeds cultured on callus induction media. For callus induction mature seeds were cultured on MS medium containing 30 g/l sucrose combined with 560 mg/l proline and 1.5-3.5 mg/l 2,4-D and 0.5-1.5 mg/l Kin. For plant regeneration, embryogenic calli were transferred to MS medium containing 30 g/l sucrose, supplemented with 1.0-3.0 mg/l BAP, 0.5-1.5 mg/l Kin and 0.5-1.5 mg/l NAA. The highest frequency of callus induction (44.4%) was observed on the MS medium supplemented with 2.5 mg/l 2,4-D, 0.5 mg/l Kin, 560 mg/l proline and 30 g/l sucrose. The highest frequency of shoot regeneration (42.5%) was observed on the MS medium supplemented with 2.0 mg/l BAP, 0.5 mg/l NAA and 0.5 mg/l Kin. The plantlets were hardened and transferred to soil in earthen pots. The developed method was highly reproducible. The in vitro developed plants showed normal growth and flowering under glasshouse conditions.
21353192	The production of functional activated carbon materials starting from cheap natural precursors using environmentally friendly processes is a highly attractive subject in material chemistry today. Recently, much attention has been focused on the use of plant biomass to produce functional carbonaceous materials, encompassing economic, environmental and social issues. Besides the classical route to produce activated carbons from fossil materials, rice husk shows clear advantages in that it can generate a variety of cheap and sustainable carbonaceous materials with attractive nanostructure and functional patterns for a wide range of applications. From a comprehensive literature review, it was found that porous carbon that derived from rice husks, in addition to having wide availability, has fast kinetics and appreciable adsorption capacities too. Porous carbon materials also play a significant role in new applications such as catalytic supports, battery electrodes, capacitors, and gas storage. In this review, an extensive list of rice husks literature has been compiled. Conclusions have been drawn from the literature reviewed, and suggestions for future research are proposed.
21353327	Casparian bands of endodermis and exodermis play crucial roles in blocking apoplastic movement of ions and water into the stele of roots through the cortex. These apoplastic barriers differ considerably in structure and function along the developing root. The present study assessed net Na+ fluxes in anatomically distinct root zones of rice seedlings and analyzed parts of individual roots showing different Na+ uptake. The results indicated that anatomically distinct root zones contributed differently to the overall uptake of Na+. The average Na+ uptake in root zones in which Casparian bands of the endo- and exo-dermis were interrupted by initiating lateral root primordia (root zone III) was significantly greater than that at the root apex, where Casparian bands were not yet formed (root zone I), or in the region where endo- and exo-dermis with Casparian bands were well developed (root zone II). The measurement of net Na+ fluxes using a non-invasive scanning ion-selective electrode technique (SIET) demonstrated that net Na+ flux varied significantly in different positions along developing rice roots, and a net Na+ influx was obvious at the base of young lateral root primordia. Since sodium fluxes changed significantly along developing roots of rice seedlings, we suggest that the significantly distinct net Na+ flux profile may be attributed to different apoplastic permeability due to lateral root primordia development for non-selective apoplastic bypass of ions along the apoplast.
21354211	The minor coat protein of the avian reovirus (ARV), σC, encoded by the S1 genome segment, is one of the major candidates for the development of a subunit vaccine against ARV infection. To develop a plant-based vaccine to immunize poultry against ARV infection, we constructed 4 plant nuclear expression vectors with or without codon modification of the S1 gene, and their expression was driven by a CaMV 35S promoter or rice actin1 promoter. In addition, the expressed σC proteins were targeted subcellularly to cytosol or chloroplasts, respectively. Agrobacterium containing the S1 expression constructs was used to transform tobacco leaf disks, and transformants were selected with kanamycin (100 μg/ml). The integration of the S1 transgene into the tobacco chromosome was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis. Western blot analysis with antiserum against σC was performed to determine the expression of σC protein in transgenic tobacco plants. The highest expression levels of σC protein in the cellular extracts of selected p35S1, pActS1 and p35UmS1 transgenic lines were 0.013%, 0.021% and 0.0013% of the total soluble protein, respectively, but the protein was barely detectable in p35TmS1 transgenic lines. However, the level of σC protein expression was not associated with the level of corresponding RNA transcripts in selected transgenic lines. Taken together, the results suggest that the major limiting factor for the expression of σC protein in plants might be at the post-transcriptional level.
21354787	The feasibility of growth and oil production by Ettlia oleoabundans fed with anaerobic digester effluents of three agriculture wastes from the Arkansas Delta, catfish processing waste, soybean field waste, and rice hulls, was studied. Compared to standard BBM medium, all three effluents were deficient in phosphate and nitrate, but rich in ammonia and urea. Best growth was on 2% (v/v) soy effluent, but scant oil was produced on any of the effluents. When the three effluents were mixed, growth did not substantially increase, but oil content increased up to sixfold, depending on age of the effluent. Similar to growth in BBM, the main fatty acids produced were palmitic, oleic, and linoleic. These results show that anaerobically digested agricultural wastes can potentially support both growth and high oil productivity in E. oleoabundans.
21354967	The National Academy of Agricultural Science (NAAS) has developed a web-based database system (http:/ /nabic.naas.go.kr) to provide information about genetic markers in rice. A subscriber is assisted in tracing any new structures of the chromosome and gene positional functions through comparisons by using specific QTL markers. A genetic linkage map database system was constructed by using 1054 markers (112 QTL markers included) in each of 12 chromosomes in rice.
21355801
21355995	The plant-pathogenic prokaryote Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial leaf blight, one of the most destructive diseases of rice. A nonpolar mutant of the rsmA-like gene rsmA(Xoo) of the Xoo Chinese strain 13751 was constructed by homologous integration with a suicide plasmid. Virulence tests on a host plant, namely the hybrid rice cultivar Teyou 63, showed that the mutant had lost its virulence almost completely, whereas tests on a nonhost, namely castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis), showed that the mutant had also lost the ability to induce a hypersensitive response in the nonhost. In addition, the rsmA(Xoo) mutant produced significantly smaller amounts of the diffusible signal factor, extracellular endoglucanase, amylase and extracellular polysaccharide, but showed significantly higher glycogen accumulation, bacterial aggregation and cell adhesion. The expression of most hrp genes, genes encoding AvrBs3/PthA family members, rpfB, xrvA, glgA, eglXoB and XOO0175 (encoding an α-amylase) was down-regulated in the rsmA(Xoo) mutant. All phenotypes and expression levels of the tested genes in the rsmA(Xoo) mutant were restored to their levels in the wild-type by the presence of rsmA(Xoo) in trans. These results indicate that rsmA(Xoo) is essential for the virulence of Xoo.
21356002	The genome of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) is predicted to be greater than 16 Gbp in size and consist predominantly of repetitive elements, making the sequencing and assembly of this genome a major challenge. We have reduced genome sequence complexity by isolating chromosome arm 7DS and applied second-generation technology and appropriate algorithmic analysis to sequence and assemble low copy and genic regions of this chromosome arm. The assembly represents approximately 40% of the chromosome arm and all known 7DS genes. Comparison of the 7DS assembly with the sequenced genomes of rice (Oryza sativa) and Brachypodium distachyon identified large regions of conservation. The syntenic relationship between wheat, B. distachyon and O. sativa, along with available genetic mapping data, has been used to produce an annotated draft 7DS syntenic build, which is publicly available at http://www.wheatgenome.info. Our results suggest that the sequencing of isolated chromosome arms can provide valuable information of the gene content of wheat and is a step towards whole-genome sequencing and variation discovery in this important crop.
21356527	Calcium (Ca) plays a crucial role as a second messenger in intracellular signaling elicited by developmental and environmental cues. Calcineurin B-like proteins (CBLs) and their target proteins, CBL-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs) have emerged as a key Ca(2+)-mediated signaling network in response to stresses in plants. Bioinformatic analysis was used to identify 43 putative ZmCIPK (Zea mays CIPK) genes in the genome of maize inbred line B73. Based on gene structures, these ZmCIPKs were divided into intron-rich and intron-poor groups. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the ZmCIPK family had a high evolutionary relationship with the rice CIPK family of 30 members. Microarray data and RT-PCR assay showed that ZmCIPK genes transcriptionally responded to abiotic stresses, and that 24, 31, 20 and 19 ZmCIPK genes were up-regulated by salt, drought, heat and cold stresses, respectively. There were different expression patterns of ZmCIPKs between cold-tolerant inbred line B73 and cold-sensitive inbred line Mo17 under cold stress. Our findings will aid further molecular dissection of biological functions of the CIPKs in maize, and provide new insight into the CBL-CIPK signaling network in plants.
21357645	Old leaves of wild-type rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) are more resistant to blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea) than new leaves. In contrast, both old and new leaves of the rice phytochrome triple mutant (phyAphyBphyC) are susceptible to blast fungus. We demonstrate that pathogenesis-related class 1 (PR1) proteins are rapidly and strongly induced during M. grisea infection and following exogenous jasmonate (JA) or salicylic acid (SA) exposure in the old leaves, but not in the new leaves of the wild-type. In contrast, the accumulation of PR1 proteins was significantly attenuated in old and new leaves of the phyAphyBphyC mutant. These results suggest that phytochromes are required for the induction of PR1 proteins in rice. Basal transcription levels of PR1a and PR1b were substantially higher in the wild-type as compared to the phyAphyBphyC mutant, suggesting that phytochromes also are required for basal expression of PR1 genes. Moreover, the transcript levels of genes known to function in SA- or JA-dependent defense pathways were regulated by leaf age and functional phytochromes. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that phytochromes are required in rice for age-related resistance to M. grisea and may indirectly increase PR1 gene expression by regulating SA- and JA-dependent defense pathways.
21358257	Multiple rice body formation is an uncommon inflammatory process. Sometimes it leads to a big mass in unusual locations. Although sometimes associated with bursitis and systemic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, the pathophysiology of this rare entity is still obscure. We present a 29-year-old woman with multiple rice body mass formation in the trochanteric bursa of the left hip. She was operated, and had no recurrence at 18 months after the surgery.
21359512	Environmental pollution by un-utilized nitrogenous fertilizer at the agricultural field is one of the key issues of the day. Rice-based cropping system, the mainstay of Indian agriculture, is one of the main sources of unused N-fertilizer since rice utilizes only 30-40% of total applied N, and the rest goes to waste and creates environmental as well as economic loss. Identification of rice genotypes that can grow and yield well at low nitrogen levels is highly desirable for enhancement of nitrogen use efficiency (NUE). In the present study, we have identified large variability in the NUE of rice cultivars on the basis of plant with low, medium, and high levels of N in nutrient solution. To establish the basis of this wide variability in NUE, nitrate uptake kinetics and enzymes of nitrate assimilation were studied. The data of nitrate uptake kinetics revealed that the nitrate uptake is mediated by low-affinity transporter system (LATS) in N-inefficient rice cultivars and by both LATS and high-affinity transporter systems (HATS) in N-efficient genotypes. Activities of nitrate reductase, nitrite reductase, glutamine synthetase, glutamate synthase, and the soluble protein content were found to be increased in moderately N-efficient and low N-efficient cultivars with increase in external supply of nitrogen. However, a non-significant decrease in these enzymes was recorded in high N-efficient cultivars with the increase in N supply. This study suggests that the HATS, high NR, and glutamine synthetase activity and the soluble protein content distribution have a key role in N efficiency of rice genotypes. These parameters may be considered in breeding and genetic engineering programs for improving the NUE of rice, which might be helpful in reducing the fertilizer loss, hence decreasing environmental degradation and improving crop productivity through improvement of nitrogen utilization efficiency in rice.
21359799	The completion of the alfalfa, Arabidopsis, papaya, poplar, and rice genome sequences along with ongoing sequencing projects of various crop species, offers an excellent opportunity to study gene expression at the whole genome level and to unravel the complexity of gene networks underlying the reprogramming of plant defense toward pathogen challenge. Gene expression in eukaryotic cells is mainly controlled by regulatory elements that recruit transcription factors (TFs) to modulate transcriptional outputs. Therefore, methods allowing the identification of all cognate TF binding sites (TFBS) within the regulatory regions of target genes on a genome-wide basis are the next obvious step to elucidate the plant defense transcriptome. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) is one such powerful technique for analyzing functional cis-regulatory DNA elements. The ChIP assay allows the identification of specific regulatory DNA regions associated with trans-acting regulatory factors in vivo. ChIP assays can provide spatial and temporal snapshots of the regulatory components involved in reprogramming host gene expression upon pathogen ingress. Moreover, the use of ChIP-enriched DNA for hybridization to tiling microarrays (ChIP-chip) or for direct sequencing (ChIP-Seq) by means of massively parallel sequencing technology has expanded this methodology to address global changes in gene expression.
21359801	Alternative splicing (AS) significantly contributes to transcriptome and proteome complexity. Transcriptome-wide studies concluded that approximately 22% of Arabidopsis and rice genes are subject to AS. Despite increasing recognition of AS in plants, little is known about the function of individual products of AS. In our studies of the Arabidopsis RPS4 resistance gene, which requires AS transcripts for function, the need to quantify AS transcripts became apparent. Because RPS4 expression levels are very low and the pattern of RPS4 splicing is complex, existing mRNA quantification methods were not adequate. We therefore developed a new method based on reverse transcription (RT) PCR amplification of all transcript variants with a common set of primers and separation of the PCR products by size via capillary electrophoresis. Products were quantified by analysis of several PCR cycles per sample using the signal quantification procedures developed for microsatellite genotyping on capillary sequencing machines. With this method, we were able to measure differential regulation of individual RPS4 alternative transcripts specifically during effector-triggered immunity. This method is especially suitable for quantification of alternative transcripts of low-expressed genes exhibiting complex splicing patterns.
21360198	Improved eating quality is a major breeding target in japonica rice due to market demand. In this study, we performed genetic analysis to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that control rice eating quality traits using 192 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between two japonica cultivars, 'Suweon365' and 'Chucheongbyeo'. We evaluated the stickiness (ST) and overall evaluation (OE) of cooked rice using a sensory test, the glossiness of cooked rice (GCR) using a Toyo-taste meter, and measured the amylose content (AC), protein content (PC), alkali digestion value (ADV), and days to heading (DH) of the RILs in the years 2006 and 2007. Our analysis revealed 21 QTLs on chromosomes 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 11. QTLs on chromosomes 6, 7, and 8 were detected for three traits related to eating quality in both years. QTLs for ST and OE were identified by a sensory test in the same region of the QTLs for AC, PC, ADV, GCR and DH on chromosome 8. QTL effects on the GCR were verified using QTL-NILs (near-isogenic lines) of BC(3)F(4-6) in the Suweon365 background, a low eating quality variety, and some BC(1)F(3) lines. Chucheongbyeo alleles at QTLs on chromosomes 7 and 8 increased the GCR in the NILs and backcrossed lines. The QTLs identified by our analysis will be applicable to future marker-assisted selection (MAS) strategies for improving the eating quality of japonica rice.
21360613	Gibberellins (GAs) are phytohormones regulating various developmental processes in plants. In rice, the initial GA-signaling events involve the binding of a GA to the soluble GA receptor protein, GID1. Although X-ray structures for certain GID1/GA complexes have recently been determined, an examination of the complexes does not fully clarify how GID1s discriminate among different GAs. Herein, we present a study aimed at defining the types of forces important to binding via a combination of isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) and computational docking studies that employed rice GID1 (OsGID1), OsGID1 mutants, which were designed to have a decreased possible number of hydrogen bonds with bound GA, and GA variants. We find that, in general, GA binding is enthalpically driven and that a hydrogen bond between the phenolic hydroxyl of OsGID1 Tyr134 and the C-3 hydroxyl of a GA is a defining structural element. A hydrogen-bond network that involves the C-6 carboxyl of a GA that directly hydrogen bonds the hydroxyl of Ser198 and indirectly, via a two-water-molecule network, the phenolic hydroxyl of Tyr329 and the NH of the amide side-chain of Asn255 is also important for GA binding. The binding of OsGID1 by GA(1) is the most enthalpically driven association found for the biologically active GAs evaluated in this study. This observation might be a consequence of a hydrogen bond formed between the hydroxyl at the C-13 position of GA(1) and the main chain carbonyl of OsGID1 Phe245. Our results demonstrate that by combining ITC experiments and computational methods much can be learned about the thermodynamics of ligand/protein binding.
21360643	Insect growth regulators are promising alternatives to traditional pesticides in stored grain. The efficacy of the juvenile hormone analogue methoprene was evaluated as a layer treatment in a laboratory experiment for control of Rhyzopertha dominica (F.) (Coleoptera: Bostrychidae) in wheat, rice and maize. Adults of R. dominica were placed in vials containing 33, 26 and 29 g (to a depth of 6.5 cm) of wheat, rice and maize, respectively, that was entirely or partially treated with 1, 5 or 10 mg kg(-1) methoprene. In wheat and rice, the layer treatments were not as effective as the whole-grain treatment, but there was decreased progeny production as the application rate increased. However, on maize the partial treatments were as effective as the whole-grain treatment at 5 and 10 mg kg(-1) . The results suggest that partial layer treatments with methoprene can be used to control R. dominica on maize but may not be effective for control of this species on wheat and rice.
21360999	A total of 24 paddy soil samples with different productivity were collected from eight main rice production counties in east, central, and northwest Hunan Province, with the parameters of soil physical properties and clay mineral composition, including bulk density, particle density, porosity, field water-holding capacity, water-stable aggregates, mean weight diameter, normalized mean weight diameter, aggregate destruction rate, organic carbon, organic cementing materials, inorganic cementing materials, and clay minerals determined. The results showed that highly productive (>14,000 kg x hm(-2)) paddy soil possessed bulk density below 1.2 g x cm3, soil particle density about 2.0 g x cm3, and 5-0.5 mm water-stable macroaggregates about 20%. Most of the test parameters had no significant differences between highly productive and medium productive (10,000-13,500 kg x hm(-2)) paddy soils, but significant differences between highly productive and lowly productive (<10,000 kg x hm(-2)) paddy soils, suggesting that under good management, medium productive paddy soils could be upgraded to highly productive paddy soils. At present, the physical properties of lowly productive paddy soils were poor, which need to be improved to raise productivity.
21361018	The period 1961-2007 was divided into two by the time node of year 1981, and the change characteristics of the agricultural climate resources both in period I (1961-1980) and in period II (1981-2007) were analyzed and compared. The results showed that under the background of global warming, the average climatic trend rate of > or = 10 degrees C accumulated temperature in the middle and lower reaches of Yangtze River in temperature-defined growth season during 1961-2007 was 74 degrees C x d x 10 a(-1), and the > or =10 degrees C accumulated temperature in period II was 124 d higher than that in period I. Comparing with that in period I, the safe planting boundary of double cropping rice in period II moved 0.79 degrees northward. In 1961-2007, the precipitation in temperature-defined growth season had an overall increasing trend. Comparing with those in period I, the precipitation and the area of > or = 767 mm precipitation (water requirement for normal growth of double cropping rice) in period II were increased by 1.6% and 1.13 x 10(4) km2, respectively. The average sunshine hour in temperature-defined growth season in period II was reduced by 8.1%, comparing with that in period I. In recent 47 years, about 91.1% stations in the reaches showed a decreasing trend in sunshine hours. Comparing with that in period I, the reference crop evapotranspiration in temperature-defined growth season in period II showed a slightly decreasing trend, and its low value region expanded while its high value region narrowed. The beginning date of daily temperature over 10 degrees C was averagely 2 days earlier in period II than that in period I, while the ending date was in reverse. The ending date of daily temperature over 22 degrees C was almost the same in periods I and II.
21361022	A systematic investigation was carried out on the arsenic content in the soils and plants surrounding Shimen arsenic sulphide mine. The arsenic content in top soils (0-20 cm) was averagely 99.51 mg x kg(-1), being 5.34 times higher than that of the background value in Hunan Province and 8.70 times higher than that of local farmland soil. The topsoil arsenic content in paddy field and dry land was 43.51 and 115.1 mg x kg(-1), respectively, being 0.45 and 1.87 times higher than that of the grade II level (paddy field 30 mg x kg(-1); dry land 40 mg x kg(-1)) commended by the National Soil Quality (GB 15618-1995), and the corresponding arsenic exceeding rate was 62.5% and 50.0%, respectively. The arsenic content in edible parts of foodstuff, vegetables, and fruits was 0.16, 0.06, and 0.01 mg x kg(-1), respectively, and the arsenic exceeding rate of crop samples compared to food security standard ranked in the order of foodstuff > vegetables > fruits. Rice and sweet potato were relatively seriously contaminated by arsenic. The highest arsenic content of rice was up to 0.84 mg x kg(-1), which was 4.6 times higher than that of the National Standard, with the exceeding rate of 62.5%. Statistical analysis demonstrated that there was a positive correlation between the arsenic contents of soil and plant. The average daily intake of arsenic by local people through the consumption of the crops was 6.416 microg x kg(-1) x d(-1), which was much higher than the standard commended by WHO, and the related health risk index was 21.39, which was 14.39 times higher than that in the control region.
21361023	In a pot experiment, hyperaccumulator Sedum plumbizincicola and low-cadmium accumulating Oryza sativa cultivar "Zhongxiang No. 1" were planted in rotation on a heavy metals-polluted soil, and calcium magnesium phosphate (Ca-P) and rock phosphate (P-R) were amended, aimed to study the effects of the rotation and phosphate amendment on the growth of the two plants and the zinc- and cadmium accumulation in their shoots. After the amendment of 50 g P-R x kg(-1), the Zn and Cd uptake by S. plumbizincicola was 11.5 mg x pot(-1) and 0 x 79 mg x pot(-1), respectively, being significantly higher than that after the amendment of 4 g Ca-P x kg(-1). After the planting of S. plumbizincicola, the Zn and Cd concentrations in "Zhongxiang No. 1" increased, but the amendment of Ca-P decreased the accumulation of Zn and Cd in rice shoot significantly. The rotation with S. plumbizincicola and the amendment of Ca-P and P-R could immobilize the Zn and Cd in the contaminated soil as indicated by the quantitative change of NH4OAc-extractable Cd and Zn, and the efficiency of amendment with Ca-P was better than that of amendment with P-R. Field trial showed that amendment with Ca-P could not only increase the rice yield, but also reduce the Zn and Cd accumulation in rice shoot to a certain extent.
21361628	Tillering is one of the most important agronomic traits because the number of shoots per plant determines panicle number, a key component of grain yield. The conventional method of counting tillers is still manual. Under the condition of mass measurement, the accuracy and efficiency could be gradually degraded along with fatigue of experienced staff. Thus, manual measurement, including counting and recording, is not only time consuming but also lack objectivity. To automate this process, we developed a high-throughput facility, dubbed high-throughput system for measuring automatically rice tillers (H-SMART), for measuring rice tillers based on a conventional x-ray computed tomography (CT) system and industrial conveyor. Each pot-grown rice plant was delivered into the CT system for scanning via the conveyor equipment. A filtered back-projection algorithm was used to reconstruct the transverse section image of the rice culms. The number of tillers was then automatically extracted by image segmentation. To evaluate the accuracy of this system, three batches of rice at different growth stages (tillering, heading, or filling) were tested, yielding absolute mean absolute errors of 0.22, 0.36, and 0.36, respectively. Subsequently, the complete machine was used under industry conditions to estimate its efficiency, which was 4320 pots per continuous 24 h workday. Thus, the H-SMART could determine the number of tillers of pot-grown rice plants, providing three advantages over the manual tillering method: absence of human disturbance, automation, and high throughput. This facility expands the application of agricultural photonics in plant phenomics.
21362738	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small non-coding RNAs that negatively regulate specific target mRNAs at the post-transcriptional level. Plant miRNAs have been implicated in developmental processes and adaptations to environmental stresses. Cadmium (Cd) is a non-essential heavy metal that is highly toxic to plants. To investigate the responsive functions of miRNAs under Cd stress, miRNA expression in Cd-stressed rice (Oryza sativa) was profiled using a microarray assay. A total of 19 Cd-responsive miRNAs were identified, of which six were further validated experimentally. Target genes were also predicted for these Cd-responsive miRNAs, which encoded transcription factors, and proteins associated with metabolic processes or stress responses. In addition, the mRNA levels of several targets were negatively correlated with the corresponding miRNAs under Cd stress. Promoter analysis showed that metal stress-responsive cis-elements tended to occur more frequently in the promoter regions of Cd-responsive miRNAs. These findings suggested that miRNAs played an important role in Cd tolerance in rice, and highlighted a novel molecular mechanism of heavy metal tolerance in plants.
21364321	Plants activate defense responses through the recognition of microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs). Recently, several pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs) have been identified in plants, paving the way for manipulating MAMP signaling. CEBiP is a receptor for the chitin elicitor (CE) identified in the rice plasma membrane and XA21 is a member of the receptor-like protein kinase (RLK) family that confers disease resistance to rice bacterial leaf blight expressing the sulfated protein Ax21. To improve resistance to rice blast, the most serious fungal disease of rice, we aimed to create a defense system that combines high affinity of CEBiP for CE and the ability of XA21 to confer disease resistance. Cultured rice cells expressing the chimeric receptor CRXA, which consists of CEBiP and the intracellular region of XA21, induced cell death accompanied by an increased production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species after exposure to CE. Rice plants expressing the chimeric receptor exhibited more resistance to rice blast. Engineering PRRs may be a new strategy in molecular breeding for achieving disease resistance.
21364607	Dietary strategies that reduce post-prandial glycemia are important in the prevention and treatment of diabetes and coronary heart disease (CHD). This may be achieved by addition of high-quality protein and fat contained in pistachio nuts, to carbohydrate-containing foods or meals. A total of 10 healthy volunteers (3 males, 7 females); aged 48.3±6.4 years; Body mass index (BMI) 28.0±4.8 kg/m(2) participated in two studies. Study 1 assessed the dose-response effect of 28, 56 and 84 g pistachios consumed alone or co-ingested with white bread (50 g available carbohydrate); Study 2 assessed the effective dose (56 g) of pistachios on post-prandial glycemia consumed with different commonly consumed carbohydrate foods (50 g available carbohydrate). Relative glycemic responses (RGRs) of study meals compared with white bread, were assessed over the 2 h post-prandial period. The RGRs of pistachios consumed alone expressed as a percentage of white bread (100%) were: 28 g (5.7±1.8%); 56 g (3.8±1.8%); 84 g (9.3±3.2%), P<0.001. Adding pistachios to white bread resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in the RGR of the composite meal; 28 g (89.1±6.0, P=0.100); 56 g (67.3±9.8, P=0.009); 84 g (51.5±7.5, P<0.001). Addition of 56 g pistachios to carbohydrate foods significantly reduced the RGR: parboiled rice (72.5±6.0) versus rice and pistachios (58.7±5.1) (P=0.031); pasta (94.8±11.4) versus pasta and pistachios (56.4±5.0) (P=0.025); whereas for mashed potatoes (109.0±6.6) versus potatoes and pistachios, (87.4±8.0) (P=0.063) the results approached significance. Pistachios consumed alone had a minimal effect on post-prandial glycemia and when taken with a carbohydrate meal attenuated the RGR. The beneficial effects of pistachios on post-prandial glycemia could, therefore, be part of the mechanism by which nuts reduce the risk of diabetes and CHD.
21364610	A high prevalence of Type 2 diabetes exists in Saudi Arabia. Epidemiological evidence suggests that low glycaemic index (GI) diets reduce diabetes risk. Yet, little is known about the GI of traditional Saudi Arabian staples such as Hassawi rice (HR). HR was evaluated in terms of its GI and insulinaemic index (II). Comparisons were made in vitro assessing glucose released enzymatically. A long-grain rice variety available in both United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia was studied as a comparison. For GI and II measurements, HR, Uncle Ben's rice (UBR) and a standard glucose solution were consumed by healthy subjects (n=13) on seven randomised occasions. Capillary bloods were collected at specific times over 2 h after food intake. Food and Agriculture Organization/World Health Organization protocols were used to determine GI and II. For the in vitro studies, cooked rice was incubated with hydrolytic enzymes under standardised conditions. Samples were taken at t=20 and t=120 min and rapidly available glucose (RAG) and slowly available glucose (SAG) were computed. Values of RAG and SAG were lower for HR compared with their respective values for UBR (P<0.001 and P=0.011, respectively). However, no significant difference was observed for GI (P>0.05) despite a lower insulin response noted for HR (P=0.007). HR had a similar GI to UBR, although a lower insulin response was evident. RAG and SAG values were different for the two rice varieties despite similar GI values. These differences may be important in terms of their metabolic impact and outcome on diabetes.
21364829	WE DEVELOPED, TNAURICE: a database comprising of the rice varieties released from a public institution, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), Coimbatore, India. Backed by MS-SQL, and ASP-Net at the front end, this database provide information on both quantitative and qualitative descriptors of the rice varities inclusive of their parental details. Enabled by an user friendly search utility, the database can be effectively searched by the varietal descriptors, and the entire contents are navigable as well. The database comes handy to the plant breeders involved in the varietal improvement programs to decide on the choice of parental lines. TNAURice is available for public access at http://www.btistnau.org/germdefault.aspx.
2136513	The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the impact of changes in income and retail prices on the consumption of foods by low income groups living in Guatemala. A representative sample of 200 low-income families living in a marginal area of Guatemala City, known as "El Milagro", was studied. Of five surveys conducted, two concerned food demand exclusively. In the first one the food consumption survey used was the 24-hr recall method, and the second survey was related to income expenditures, obtaining weekly information on expenses on foods and in other items. The expenditures were utilized to estimate the elasticity of demand, including foods. Total family expenses were used as an estimation of total income. Analyses of the data were obtained by forming three income groups: families with per capita expenses below the per capita cost of the foods basket; families with per capita expenses within the cost of the food basket, and the cost of a modified food basket (all expenses); families with an income above the modified food basket. The analyzed data clearly confirmed that: a) food expenses increase less as a response to income increases than expenses for other family needs; the income elasticity for foods high in carbohydrates content is lower with respect to food of animal origin and the income elasticity of the demand for rice and wheat bread are higher in comparison to the more basic foods such as beans, maize and maize products, roots and tubers.
2136516	The purpose of this research was to evaluate the effect of the partial substitution of rice by precooked corn flour, fortified or not with soy, on the organoleptic and nutritive characteristics of the arepas and on the expansion of the dough. Blends with 10, 20 and 30% of raw and precooked rice flours, and 8% soy flour were utilized. The results for arepas indicate that the partial substitution had no significant effect on the organoleptic characteristics nor nutritive value. The soy improved significantly the nutritive value. The expansion of the dough of the blends varied in respect to corn flour, without causing appreciable difficulty in the preparation of the arepas. The industrial precooked rice flour imparted great adhesivity, thus difficulty in the kneading, a fact which could lead to rejection by the consumer.
21365233	Sheath blight infection of rice by Rhizoctonia solani Kühn AG1-IA often results in serious yield losses in intensive rice cultivation. Biological control agents (BCAs) have previously been isolated but poor efficiency is often observed when applied under field conditions. This study compares a traditional dual-culture plate assay and a new water-surface microcosm assay for isolation of antagonistic soil bacteria. In the water-surface microcosm assay, floating pathogen mycelium is used as a source for isolation of hyphae-colonizing soil bacteria (HCSB), which are subsequently screened for antagonism. Ten antagonistic soil bacteria (ASB) isolated from a variety of Vietnamese rice soils using dual-culture plates were found to be affiliated with Bacillus based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing. However, all the ASB isolates grew poorly and showed no antagonism in the water-surface microcosm assay. In contrast, 11 (out of 13) HCSB isolates affiliated with Burkholderia sp. all grew well by colonizing the hyphae in the microcosms. Two of the Burkholderia sp. isolates, assigned to B. vietnamiensis based on recA gene sequencing, strongly inhibited fungal growth in both the dual-culture and water-surface microcosm assays; HCSB isolates affiliated to other species or species groups showed limited or no inhibition of R. solani in the microcosms. Our results suggest that HCSB obtained from floating pathogen hyphae can be a new source for isolation of efficient BCAs against R. solani, as the isolation assay mimics the natural habitat for fungal-bacterial interaction in the fields.
21365491	Generation and characterization of mutants are important for the investigation of gene function. Gain-of-function technology is one of the most useful approaches for the systematic production of mutant resources. Full-length cDNAs have been collected from various plant species and have become important resources for functional genomics. We have developed a novel gain-of-function technology for the identification of gene function using a full-length cDNA library, and this system has been named as FOX hunting system (Full-length cDNA Over-eXpressing gene hunting system). In this system, full-length cDNAs are randomly expressed in Arabidopsis. We also generated rice FOX Arabidopsis lines in which full-length cDNAs from rice were expressed in Arabidopsis, and we demonstrated that gene function derived from heterologous organisms can be analyzed systematically using the FOX hunting approach. In this protocol, we describe the process of generating Arabidopsis mutants expressing rice full-length cDNA libraries and the methods of identifying genes from the isolated mutants.
21365544	The population genetics of the migratory rice leaf roller, Cnaphalocrocis medinalis (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), was characterized using the maternally inherited mitochondrial A+T-rich region and bi-parentally inherited nuclear internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2). One hundred and eighty-seven specimens of the rice leaf roller collected from 13 Korean and Chinese localities revealed 94 A+T-rich region haplotypes, ranging in sequence length from 339 to 348 bp and 129 ITS2 sequence types, ranging from 444 to 450 bp, with maximum sequence divergences of 4.55 and 4.43%, respectively. The finding of almost no significant F(ST), even among Chinese and Korean localities, except for one Chinese island population (ITS2 only), and the finding of genetic variance principally at the within-population level indicate the genetic structure characteristics of a migratory insect that is well connected among populations due to high gene flow. Detection of significant F(ST) estimates of one offshore island population in China (Haikou) compared to most others only by ITS2 rather than by the mitochondrial A+T-rich region, as well as the somewhat higher degree of genetic differentiation seen on ITS2, suggest the importance of female dispersal. Structural analysis of the A+T-rich region revealed a poly-T stretch (10-16 bp), a microsatellite-like AT repeat (10-14 repeats), and a 5-bp long-motif "ATTTA". The typical 5-bp long conserved motif sequence (ATAGA) previously detected in other lepidopterans was found to be ATAG in the C. medinalis A+T-rich region.
21365918	To provide new atrazine-degrading strains for atrazine-polluted soil, we isolated the high-efficiency degradation bacterium from contaminated soil, identified with taxonomy, and studied the degrading characteristics and remediation capability of the strain in black soil. We used morphological, physiological and biochemical characteristics and 16S rDNA sequences analysis to identify the strain. We studied the effect of environmental factors such as incubation time, temperature and pH on the strain growth and atrazine degradation to confirm the optimum degradation conditions. The strain's degradation range was studied by using different herbicides as sole carbon and nitrogen source. The strain's remediation capability to atrazine-polluted soil was tested by sensitive crop bioassay after inoculating in pot soil. We isolated a high-efficiency degradation strain T3AB1 that used atrazine as sole carbon and nitrogen source from maize field suffering atrazine in Nehe, Heilongjiang province. It was initially identified as a member of the genus Arthrobacter sp.. The strain could degrade more than 99% of 500 mg/L atrazine (pH 8.0) within 72 h. We determined the best degradation conditions as follows: pH 7.0-8.0, 25-30 degrees C, 72-108 h. In addition, the strain used other herbicides as sole carbon and nitrogen source such as imazamox, imazethapyr, trifluralinm, clomazone and fomesafen, and the degradation rate reached 12.66% - 40.54% after 168 h. The strain could significantly remedy the sensitive rice crop biomass indexes after treating 21 days, and as time extending, its role in the remediation gradually increased. The screened atrazine-degrading strain T3AB1 could be a suitable candidate for bioremediation of atrazine-polluted soil.
21365998	Thirty days old rice plants grown under low and moderate light conditions were transferred to full sunlight to observe the extent of photoinhibitory damage and protective mechanism, and the relationship between xanthophyll cycle and nonphotochemical quenching (qN) under changing light environment. Control plants (low, moderate and sun grown) exhibited similar Fv/Fm ratio, indicating similar photosynthetic efficiency prior to light stress. On exposure to the high light treatment, low light grown plants exhibited faster and higher degree of photoinhibition compared to moderate and high light grown plants. Moderate and high light grown plants showed relatively less photoinhibition and also showed higher qN, indicating better capacity of energy dissipation. Increase in qN in moderate light and sun grown plants was accompanied by conversion of violaxanthin (V) to antheraxanthin (A) and zeaxanthin (Z) indicating operation of Z-dependent thermal dissipation. Rice plants fed with ascorbate (AsA), a stimulator of the de-epoxidation state of V to Z, showed higher Fv/Fm ratio and qN than the plants fed with dithiothreitol (DTT) an inhibitor of xanthophyll cycle. This indicated that an increased amount of energy reached PS II reaction centre, due to absence of A and Z formation, thereby causing greater damage to photosynthesis in DTT fed rice plants. The present data confirmed the relationship between qN and Z in dissipating the excess light energy, thereby protecting plants against photodamage.
21366217	Recent studies have shown that rice consumption can be an important pathway of methylmercury (MeHg) exposure to humans in Hg mining areas and also in certain inland areas of Southwestern China. The seed of rice has the highest ability to accumulate MeHg compared to other tissues. The main objective of this study was to investigate the process of (MeHg) accumulation in rice seed (Oryza sativa L.) by monitoring MeHg levels in specific tissues of rice plants experiencing various levels of Hg multisource pollution during a full rice growing season. Four groups of experimental plantations were utilized, distributed among a rural artisanal Hg production site and a regional background control site. Our results suggest that the newly deposited Hg is more readily transformed to MeHg and accumulated in rice plants than Hg forms with an extended residence time in soil, and soil is the potential source of MeHg in the tissues of rice plants. MeHg in soil was first absorbed by roots and then translocated to the above-ground parts (leaf and stalk). During the full rice growing season only a very small amount of MeHg was retained in the root section. In the premature plant, the majority of MeHg is located in the leaf and stalk; however, most of this MeHg was transferred to seed during the ripening period.
2136633	We have characterized the 5' region of the rice actin 1 gene (Act1) and show that it is an efficient promoter for regulating the constitutive expression of a foreign gene in transgenic rice. By constructing plasmids with 5' regions from the rice Act1 gene fused to the coding sequence of a gene encoding bacterial beta-glucuronidase, we demonstrate that a region 1.3 kilobases upstream of the Act1 translation initiation codon contains all of the 5'-regulatory elements necessary for high-level beta-glucuronidase (GUS) expression in transient assays of transformed rice protoplasts. The rice Act1 primary transcript has a noncoding exon separated by a 5' intron from the first coding exon. Fusions that lack this Act1 intron showed no detectable GUS activity in transient assays of transformed rice protoplasts. Deletion analysis of the Act1 5' intron suggests that the intron-mediated stimulation of GUS expression is associated, in part, with an in vivo requirement for efficient intron splicing.
21366715	An experiment was conducted to test the hypothesis that the supplementation of crude protein (CP) results in rumen acidosis and increased histamine concentrations in dairy cows. Six ruminally fistulated, non-pregnant dry cows were fed three experimental rations in a replicated 3 × 3 Latin square design. The CP contents in the low-CP, the high rumen undegradable protein (high-RUP) and the high rumen degradable protein (high-RDP) rations were 112, 259 and 266 g/kg dry matter (DM) respectively. The cows were fed 7.7 kg DM of the concentrates and 2.7 kg DM of rice straw. High levels of RDP in the ration significantly increased the ammonia, total volatile fatty acid (VFA) and histamine concentrations in the rumen fluid. However, supplemental CP, whether degradable or undegradable, did not significantly affect the pH of rumen fluid. Plasma urea nitrogen concentration was higher in both high-RDP and high-RUP in relation to cows fed the low-CP ration. The rise in ruminal histamine concentrations was physiologically non-relevant, most likely because rumen pH was not affected by supplemental CP at the installed level of DM intake. Therefore, it can be concluded that the issue of supplemental CP, rumen pH and ruminal histamine concentrations has not yet been settled. Further research is warranted to understand these relationships.
21368906	Acetate oxidation in Italian rice field at 50 °C is achieved by uncultured syntrophic acetate oxidizers. As these bacteria are closely related to acetogens, they may potentially also be able to synthesize acetate chemolithoautotrophically. Labeling studies using exogenous H(2) (80%) and (13)CO(2) (20%), indeed demonstrated production of acetate as almost exclusive primary product not only at 50 °C but also at 15 °C. Small amounts of formate, propionate and butyrate were also produced from (13)CO(2). At 50 °C, acetate was first produced but later on consumed with formation of CH(4). Acetate was also produced in the absence of exogenous H(2) albeit to lower concentrations. The acetogenic bacteria and methanogenic archaea were targeted by stable isotope probing of ribosomal RNA (rRNA). Using quantitative PCR, (13)C-labeled bacterial rRNA was detected after 20 days of incubation with (13)CO(2). In the heavy fractions at 15 °C, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA showed that Clostridium cluster I and uncultured Peptococcaceae assimilated (13)CO(2) in the presence and absence of exogenous H(2), respectively. A similar experiment showed that Thermoanaerobacteriaceae and Acidobacteriaceae were dominant in the (13)C treatment at 50 °C. Assimilation of (13)CO(2) into archaeal rRNA was detected at 15 °C and 50 °C, mostly into Methanocellales, Methanobacteriales and rice cluster III. Acetoclastic methanogenic archaea were not detected. The above results showed the potential for acetogenesis in the presence and absence of exogenous H(2) at both 15 °C and 50 °C. However, syntrophic acetate oxidizers seemed to be only active at 50 °C, while other bacterial groups were active at 15 °C.
21369267	In this study, a radial imaging capsule endoscope (RICE) system is designed, which differs from a conventional front imaging capsule endoscope (FICE) system. To observe the wrinkled intima of the intestine, which spreads without folding around the circumference of the capsule when a capsule endoscope with a diameter that slightly exceeds that of the intestine passes through it, the RICE uses a cone mirror, a radial window shell, and a focus optical module that comprise the radial imaging system. This concept was demonstrated in a packaged optical simulator. The RICE optical model also has been established and verified by many simulations and experiments. In minimizing the sagittal and tangential aberrations, the optical module of the RICE has achieved an F-number of 4.2, a viewing angle of 65.08°, and an RMS radius of the 4th to 6th fields of less than 17 um. A comparison of these characteristics with those of the focus optical module that is used in FICE lenses reveals that the spot size is 50% larger for each field, and the modulation transfer function (MTF) is remarkably improved from 7% to 36% at 100 lp/mm on the 5th field of the sagittal plane.
21369621	A simple and non-separative analytical method for selective determination of amylose in Iranian rice has been developed. It was based on the reduction of silver ions by amylose and production of Ag nanoparticles, which exhibit surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectra in the ultraviolet/visible region. The formation of Ag nanoparticles in the presence of amylose was monitored by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and dynamic light scattering (DLS). The experimental conditions were optimized to obtain the highest yield for nanoparticle formation. Partial least square (PLS) regression as an efficient multivariate spectral calibration method was employed to make a connection between the SPR spectra of the generated Ag nanoparticles and the amylose content (AC) of the rice starch. The number of PLS latent variables was optimized by leave-one-out cross-validation utilizing prediction residual error sum of square (PRESS). The proposed model exhibited a high ability for prediction of amylose concentration in both standard starch samples and real rice samples prepared from different regions of Iran. The relative errors of prediction were almost lower than ±5% for different real samples and the detection limit was 3.23 weight percent of amylose in rice. In comparison to the reference method (Juliano method), the proposed method is simpler and does not need tedious sample preprocessing steps.
21369877	Potassium (K+) and chloride (Cl-) are two essential elements for plant growth and development. While it is known that plants possess specific membrane transporters for transporting K+ and Cl-, it remains unclear if they actively use K+-coupled Cl- cotransporters (KCC), as used in animals, to transport K+ and Cl-. We have cloned an Oryza sativa cDNA encoding for a member of the cation-Cl- cotransporter (CCC) family. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that plant CCC proteins are highly conserved and that they have greater sequence similarity to the sub-family of animal K--Cl- cotransporters than to other cation-Cl- cotransporters. Real-time PCR revealed that the O. sativa cDNA, which was named OsCCC1, can be induced by KCl in the shoot and root and that the expression level was higher in the leaf and root tips than in any other part of the rice plant. The OsCCC1 protein was located not only in onion plasma membrane but also in O. sativa plasma membrane. The OsCCC1 gene-silenced plants grow more slowly than wild-type (WT) plants, especially under the KCl treatment regime. After 1 month of KCl treatment, the leaf tips of the gene-silenced lines were necrosed. In addition, seed germination, root length, and fresh and dry weight were distinctly lower in the gene-silenced lines than in WT plants, especially after KCl treatment. Analysis of Na+, K+, and Cl- contents of the gene-silenced lines and WT plants grown under the NaCl and KCl treatment regimes revealed that the former accumulated relatively less K+ and Cl- than the latter but that they did not differ in terms of Na+ contents, suggesting OsCCC1 may be involved in K+ and Cl- transport. Results from different tests indicated that the OsCCC1 plays a significant role in K+ and Cl- homeostasis and rice plant development.
21369974	Ecological niches in the rhizosphere and phyllosphere of grasses capable of sustaining endophytes have been extensively studied. In contrast, little information regarding the identity and functions of endophytic fungi in stems is available. In this study, we investigated the taxonomic affinities, diversity, and host specificities of culturable endophytes in stems of wild rice (Oryza granulata) in China. Seventy-four isolates were recovered. Low recovery rate (11.7%) indicated that there were relatively few sites for fungal infection. Identification using morphology, morphospecies sorting, and molecular techniques resulted in classification into 50 taxa, 36 of which were recovered only once. Nucleotide sequence similarity analysis indicated that 30% of the total taxa recovered were highly divergent from known species and thus may represent lineages new to science. Most of the taxa were classified as members of the classes Sordariomycetes or Dothideomycetes (mainly in Pleosporales). The presence of Arthrinium and Magnaporthaceae species, most often associated with poaceous plants, suggested a degree of host specificity. A polyphasic approach was employed to identify two Muscodor taxa based on (i) ITS and RPB2 phylogenies, (ii) volatile compounds produced, and (iii) an in vitro bioassay of antifungal activity. This to our knowledge is only the second report regarding the isolation of Muscodor spp. in China. Therefore, we hypothesize that wild plants represent a huge reservoir of unknown fungi. The prevalence, novelty, and species-specificity of unique isolates necessitate a reevaluation of their contribution to ecosystem function and fungal biodiversity.
21369976	A diesel-oil and n-hexadecane-degrading novel bacterial strain, designated DR1(T), was isolated from a rice paddy in Deok-So, South Korea. The strain DR1(T) cells were Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacilli, and grew at 20-37°C with the optimal temperature of 30°C, and an optimal pH of 6-8. Interestingly, strain DR1(T) was highly motile (swimming and swarming motility) using its fimbriae, and generated N-acyl homoserine lactones as quorum-sensing signals. The predominant respiratory quinone as identified as ubiquinone-9 (Q-9) and DNA G+C content was 41.4 mol%. Comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence-based phylogenetic analysis placed the strain in a clade with the species A. calcoaceticus, A. haemolyticus, A. baumannii, A. baylyi, and A. beijerinckii, with which it evidenced sequence similarities of 98.2%, 97.4%, 97.2%, 97.1%, and 97.0%, respectively. DNA-DNA hybridization values between strain DR1(T) and other Acinetobacter spp. were all less than 20%. The physiological and taxonomic characteristics with the DNA-DNA hybridization data supported the identification of strain DR1(T) in the genus Acinetobacter as a novel species, for which the name Acinetobacter oleivorans sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is DR1(T) (=KCTC 23045(T) =JCM 16667(T)).
21369980	Saccharification of five cellulosic wastes, i.e. rice husks, wheat bran, corn cobs, wheat straw and rice straw by three cellulytic fungi, i.e. Aspergillus glaums MN1, Aspergillus oryzae MN2 and Penicillium purpurogenum MN3, during solid-state fermentation (SSF) was laboratory studied. Rice husks, wheat bran, and corn cobs were selected as inducers of glucose production in the tested fungi. An incubation interval of 10 days was optimal for glucose production. Maximal activities of the cellulases FP-ase, CMC-ase, and p-glucosidase were detected during SSF of rice husks by P. purpurogenum; however, a-amylase activity (7.2 U/g) was comparatively reduced. Meanwhile, the productivities of FP-ase, CMC-ase, and β-glucosidase were high during SSF of rice husks by A glaucus; however, they decreased during SSF of corn cobs by P. purpurogenum. Addition of rock phosphate (RP) (75 mg P(2)O(5)) decreased the pH of SSF media. (NH(4))(2)SO(4) was found to be less inducer of cellulytic enzymes, during SSF of rice husks by A. glaucus or A. oryzae; it also induced phytase production and solubilization of RP. The organic acids associated with saccharification of the wastes studied have also been investigated. The highest concentration of levulinic acid was detected (46.15 mg/g) during SSF of corn cobs by P. purpurogenum. Likewise, oxalic acid concentration was 43.20 mg/g during SSF of rice husks by P. purpurogenum.
21370396	Studies of hybrid fitness, of which agronomic performance may be an indicator, can help in evaluating the potential for introgression of a transgene from a transgenic crop to wild relatives. The objective of this study was to assess the agronomic performance of reciprocal hybrids between two transgenic glufosinate-resistant rice lines, Y0003 and 99-t, and two weedy rice accessions, WR1 and WR2, in the greenhouse. F1 hybrids displayed heterosis in height, flag leaf area and number of spikelets per panicle. The agronomic performance of F1 between WR1 and Y0003 was not affected by crossing direction. The tiller and panicle numbers of F1 individuals were higher than their F2 counterparts. However, these traits did not change significantly from the F2 to the F3 generation or in hybrids with weedy rice as maternal or paternal plants. For all hybrids, the in vitro germination rates of fresh pollen were similar and significantly lower than those of their parents, seed sets were similar to or of lower value than those of weedy rice parents and seed shattering characteristics were partially suppressed, but the survival of hybrids over winter in the field was similar to that of weedy rice parents. All F1, F2 and F3 hybrids had similar composite agronomic performance to weedy rice parents. There was no significant decrease in the composite agronomic performance of any of the hybrids compared with weedy rice. This implies that gene flow from transgenic cultivated rice to weedy rice could occur under natural conditions.
21371040	• Plant two-pore K(+) channels (TPKs) have been shown previously to play a role in vacuolar K(+) homeostasis. TPK activity is insensitive to membrane voltage, but regulated by cytoplasmic calcium and 14-3-3 proteins. This study reports that membrane stretch and osmotic gradients also alter the activity of TPKs from Arabidopsis, rice and barley, and that this may have a physiological relevance for osmotic homeostasis. • Mechanosensitivity was studied using patch clamp experiments and TPKs from Arabidopsis, rice and barley. In addition, the capability of TPKs to act as osmosensors was determined. By using protoplast disruption assays and intact plant survival assays, in genotypes that differed in TPK expression, the physiological relevance of TPK-based osmosensing was tested. • TPKs from all three species showed varying degrees of mechanosensitivity. TPK activity in channels from all three species was sensitive to trans-tonoplast osmotic gradients. TPK osmosensing is likely to proceed via the detection of small perturbations in membrane tension. Intact plant and protoplast assays showed that TPK-based osmosensing is important during exposure to rapid changes in external osmolarity. • Vacuolar TPK channels can act as intracellular osmosensors and rapidly increase channel activity during hypo-osmotic shock to release vacuolar K(+) .
21373793	Optimization of ethanol production through addition of substratum and protein-lipid additives was studied. Oilseed meal extract was used as protein lipid supplement, while rice husk was used as substratum. The effect of oil seed meal extract and rice husk was observed at varying concentration of medium sugar from 8% to 20%. Of the three oil seed meal extracts used, viz. groundnut, safflower, and sunflower, safflower was found to be most efficient. The use of oilseed meal extract at 4% was found to enhance ethanol production by almost 50% and enhanced sugar tolerance from 8% to 16%. A further increase of almost 48% ethanol was observed on addition of 2 g of rice husk per 100 ml of medium. An increase in cell mass with better sugar attenuation was observed. Further optimization was sought through use of sugarcane juice as the sugar source. While 8.9% ethanol yield with 75% sugar attenuation was observed at 20% sucrose concentration, it was found to increase to 12% (v/v) with almost complete utilization of medium sugar when sugarcane juice was used. Cell weight was also observed to increase by 26%.
21373805	Njavara is an important medicinal rice variety of Kerala, India, widely used in Ayurveda as a 'health food' and in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, paralysis, neurodegenerative diseases and in rejuvenation therapy. Phytochemical investigations and spectroscopic studies of the diethyl ether fraction of methanolic extract of Njavara Black (NB) rice bran gave three important compounds namely, tricin and two rare flavonolignans- tricin 4'-O-(erythro-β-guaiacylglyceryl) ether and tricin 4'-O-(threo-β-guaiacylglyceryl) ether. The EC(50) values of these compounds in DPPH system were 90.39, 352.04 and 208.1 μg/ml, respectively. Quantification of the compounds by HPLC in NB and staple, non-medicinal rice varieties Sujatha (SJ) and Palakkadan Matta (PM) showed that tricin is present 39.64 and 16.12 fold higher in NB, compared to SJ and PM, respectively. This is the first report on the occurrence of tricin at significantly higher levels in Njavara and occurrence of the two flavonolignans in Oryza sativa species. Of the three compounds, tricin and the threo- form of flavonolignan showed anti-inflammatory effect of >65% after 5 h, at 2 mg/kg, in carrageenan-induced, paw edema experiments in rats. The results of the study corroborate with the preferential use of Njavara in indigenous medicine, over staple varieties.
21373980	Blast, caused by Magnaporthe oryzae, is one of the most widespread and destructive diseases of rice. Breeding durable resistant cultivars (cvs) can be achieved by pyramiding of various resistance (R) genes. Pia, carried by cv. Aichi Asahi, was evaluated against 612 isolates of M. oryzae collected from 10 Chinese provinces. The Pia gene expresses weak resistance in all the provinces except for Jiangsu. Genomic position-ready marker-based linkage analysis was carried out in a mapping population consisting of 800 F(2) plants derived from a cross of Aichi Asahi×Kasalath. The locus was defined in an interval of approximately 90 kb, flanked by markers A16 and A21. Four candidate genes (Pia-1, Pia-2, Pia-3, and Pia-4), all having the R gene conserved structure, were predicted in the interval using the cv. Nipponbare genomic sequence. Four candidate resistance gene (CRG) markers (A17, A25, A26, and A27), derived from the four candidates, were subjected to genotyping with the recombinants detected at the flanking markers. The first three markers completely co-segregated with the Pia locus, and the fourth was absent in the Aichi Asahi genome and disordered with the Pia locus and its flanking markers, indicating that the fourth candidate gene, Pia-4, could be excluded. Co-segregation marker-based genotyping of the three sets of differentials with known R gene genotypes revealed that the genotype of A26 (Pia-3) perfectly matched the R gene genotype of Pia, indicating that Pia-3 is the strongest candidate gene for Pia.
21374808	Protein hydrolysates have been used as active principles in cosmetic products conferring different properties to the final formulations, which are mostly controlled by the peptide size and its amino acid sequence. In this work, capillary electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry analyses were carried out in order to investigate such characteristics of protein hydrolysates. Samples of different origins (milk, soy and rice) were obtained from a local company, and were analyzed without a previous preparation step. The background electrolyte (BGE) and sheath liquid compositions were optimized for each sample. The best BGE composition (860 mmol/L formic acid--pH 1.8--in 70:30 v/v water/methanol hydro-organic solvent) was chosen based on the overall peak resolution whereas the best sheath liquid was selected based on increased sensitivity and presented different compositions to each sample (10.9-217 mmol/L formic acid in 75:25-25:75 v/v water/methanol hydro-organic solvent). Most of the putative peptides in the hydrolysate samples under investigation presented molecular masses of 1000 Da or less. De novo sequencing was carried out for some of the analytes, revealing the hydrophobicity/polarity of the peptides. Hence, the technique has proved to be an advantageous tool for the quality control of industrial protein hydrolysates.
21375689	It is thought that the Stay Green Rice (SGR) gene is involved in the disaggregation of the light harvesting complex and in the subsequent breakdown of chlorophyll and apo-protein during senescence. In this study, we found that overexpression of SGR (Ov-SGR) resulted in the generation of singlet oxygen and other reactive oxygen species and produced a chlorophyll-dependent regional cell death phenotype on leaves of rice seedlings. Transcriptome analyses using Affymetrix Rice GeneChips revealed that Ov-SGR rice seedlings exhibited a number of signs of singlet oxygen response. The genes and their associated biochemical pathways identified provide an insight into how rice plants respond to singlet oxygen at the molecular and physiologic level.
2137613	We have previously shown that the expression of a rice gene, rab-16A, is responsive to abscisic acid (ABA) and osmotic stress in plant tissues and cultured suspension cells. We demonstrate here that transcriptional elements between -294 and -52 of this gene are sufficient to confer ABA-dependent expression on the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene in rice protoplasts. Sequence motifs within this 242-base-pair region of the rab-16A gene are conserved among the 5' upstream regions of other ABA-responsive genes. Gel retardation and DNAse I experiments show nuclear factor(s) binding to these sequences. This correlative data indicate that these motifs are involved in the transcription of the rab genes and suggest that they may be ABA-responsive-elements (ABREs).
21376572	To produce high quality bio-oil from biomass using fast pyrolysis, rice husks were pyrolyzed in a 1-5 kg/h bench-scale fluidized-bed reactor. The effect of hot vapor filtration (HVF) was investigated to filter the solid particles and bio-char. The results showed that the total bio-oil yield decreased from 41.7% to 39.5% by weight and the bio-oil had a higher water content, higher pH, and lower alkali metal content when using HVF. One hundred and twelve different chemical compounds were detected by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The molecular weight of the chemical compounds from the condenser and the EP when the cyclone was coupled with HVF in the separation system decreased compared with those from the condenser and EP when only cyclone was used.
21377754	The response of rice plants to inoculation with an arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus, Azospirillum brasilense, or combination of both microorganisms, was assayed under well-watered or drought stress conditions. Water deficit treatment was imposed by reducing the amount of water added, but AM plants, with a significantly higher biomass, received the same amount of water as non-AM plants, with a poor biomass. Thus, the water stress treatment was more severe for AM plants than for non-AM plants. The results showed that AM colonization significantly enhanced rice growth under both water conditions, although the greatest rice development was reached in plants dually inoculated under well-watered conditions. Water level did not affect the efficiency of photosystem II, but both AM and A. brasilense inoculations increased this value. AM colonization increased stomatal conductance, particularly when associated with A. brasilense, which enhanced this parameter by 80% under drought conditions and by 35% under well-watered conditions as compared to single AM plants. Exposure of AM rice to drought stress decreased the high levels of glutathione that AM plants exhibited under well-watered conditions, while drought had no effect on the ascorbate content. The decrease of glutathione content in AM plants under drought stress conditions led to enhance lipid peroxidation. On the other hand, inoculation with the AM fungus itself increased ascorbate and proline as protective compounds to cope with the harmful effects of water limitation. Inoculation with A. brasilense also enhanced ascorbate accumulation, reaching a similar level as in AM plants. These results showed that, in spite of the fact that drought stress imposed by AM treatments was considerably more severe than non-AM treatments, rice plants benefited not only from the AM symbiosis but also from A. brasilense root colonization, regardless of the watering level. However, the beneficial effects of A. brasilense on most of the physiological and biochemical traits of rice plants were only clearly visible when the plants were mycorrhized. This microbial consortium was effective for rice plants as an acceptable and ecofriendly technology to improve plant performance and development.
21378135	Two restricted facultatively methylotrophic strains, designed B(T) and P, were isolated from rice roots. The isolates were strictly aerobic, Gram-negative, asporogenous, mesophilic, neutrophilic, motile rods that multiplied by binary fission and were able to synthesize indole-3-acetate. The cellular fatty acid profiles of the two strains were dominated by C(16:0), C(16:1)ω7c and C(16:0) 2-OH. The major ubiquinone was Q-8. The predominant phospholipids were phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylglycerol. Cardiolipin (diphosphatidylglycerol) was absent. The two strains assimilated methanol carbon at the level of formaldehyde via the ribulose monophosphate cycle (2-keto-3-deoxy-6-phosphogluconate variant). They lacked α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and glutamate dehydrogenase. They assimilated ammonium via the glutamate cycle enzymes glutamine synthetase and glutamate synthase. The DNA G+C contents of strains B(T) and P were 52.5 and 51.5 mol% (T(m)), respectively. The level of DNA-DNA reassociation between these strains was 78%, indicating that they belong to one species. Phylogenetic analysis of strain B(T) based on 16S rRNA and methanol dehydrogenase (mxaF) gene sequences showed a high level of similarity to members of the genus Methylophilus. As the two isolates were clearly distinct from all recognized members of the genus Methylophilus based on phenotypic data and levels of DNA-DNA relatedness (30-46%), they are considered to represent a novel species, for which the name Methylophilus glucosoxydans sp. nov. is proposed; the type strain is B(T) (=VKM B-1607(T)=CCUG 59685(T)=DSM 5898(T)).
21382590	In the canonical version of evolution by gene duplication, one copy is kept unaltered while the other is free to evolve. This process of evolutionary experimentation can persist for millions of years. Since it is so short lived in comparison to the lifetime of the core genes that make up the majority of most genomes, a substantial fraction of the genome and the transcriptome may-in principle-be attributable to what we will refer to as "evolutionary transients", referring here to both the process and the genes that have gone or are undergoing this process. Using the rice gene set as a test case, we argue that this phenomenon goes a long way towards explaining why there are so many more rice genes than Arabidopsis genes, and why most excess rice genes show low similarity to eudicots.
21383162	Golgi-localized nucleotide sugar transporters (NSTs) are considered essential for the biosynthesis of wall polysaccharides and glycoproteins based on their characteristic transport of a large number of nucleotide sugars to the Golgi lumen. The lack of NST mutants in plants has prevented evaluation of this hypothesis in plants. A previously undescribed Golgi NST mutant, brittle culm14 (bc14), displays reduced mechanical strength caused by decreased cellulose content and altered wall structure, and exhibits abnormalities in plant development. Map-based cloning revealed that all of the observed mutant phenotypes result from a missense mutation in a putative NST gene, Oryza sativa Nucleotide Sugar Transporter1 (OsNST1). OsNST1 was identified as a Golgi-localized transporter by analysis of a fluorescence-tagged OsNST1 expressed in rice protoplast cells and demonstration of UDP-glucose transport activity via uptake assays in yeast. Compositional sugar analyses in total and fractionated wall residues of wild-type and bc14 culms showed a deficiency in the synthesis of glucoconjugated polysaccharides in bc14, indicating that OsNST1 supplies the glucosyl substrate for the formation of matrix polysaccharides, and thereby modulates cellulose biosynthesis. OsNST1 is ubiquitously expressed, with high expression in mechanical tissues. The inferior mechanical strength and abnormal development of bc14 plants suggest that OsNST1 has pleiotropic effects on cell wall biosynthesis and plant growth. Identification of OsNST1 has improved our understanding of how cell wall polysaccharide synthesis is regulated by Golgi NSTs in plants.
21383539	Perchlorate, which may be naturally occurring or artificial in origin, inhibits iodide uptake into the thyroid gland and disturbs thyroid function. In order to investigate perchlorate contamination in foods in Japan, perchlorate levels in 28 wine samples, 20 seafood samples, 10 polished rice samples, 30 milk (include whole milk, composition modified milk, low fat milk, processed milk, milk drink) samples, 10 powdered milk samples and 10 yogurt samples were measured. Perchlorate was found in all wine, milk, powdered milk and yogurt samples tested. Perchlorate levels ranged from 0.2 ng/g to 103 ng/g in wine samples, from 2 ng/g to 11 ng/g in milk samples, from 3 ng/g to 35 ng/g in powdered milk samples, and from 2 ng/g to 11 ng/g in yogurt samples. Perchlorate levels in the seafood samples were under the LOQ (0.8 ng/g) in 8 samples and ranged from 0.8 ng/g to 72 ng/g in 12 samples. In all polished rice samples, perchlorate level was under the LOQ (1.0 ng/g).
21384112	Rice stripe disease, caused by rice stripe virus (RSV), is one of the most serious diseases in temperate rice-growing areas. In the present study, we performed quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis for RSV resistance using 98 backcross inbred lines derived from the cross between the highly resistant variety, Kasalath, and the highly susceptible variety, Nipponbare. Under artificial inoculation in the greenhouse, two QTLs for RSV resistance, designated qSTV7 and qSTV11(KAS), were detected on chromosomes 7 and 11 respectively, whereas only one QTL was detected in the same location of chromosome 11 under natural inoculation in the field. The stability of qSTV11(KAS) was validated using 39 established chromosome segment substitution lines. Fine mapping of qSTV11(KAS) was carried out using 372 BC(3)F(2:3) recombinants and 399 BC(3)F(3:4) lines selected from 7,018 BC(3)F(2) plants of the cross SL-234/Koshihikari. The qSTV11(KAS) was localized to a 39.2 kb region containing seven annotated genes. The most likely candidate gene, LOC_Os11g30910, is predicted to encode a sulfotransferase domain-containing protein. The predicted protein encoded by the Kasalath allele differs from Nipponbare by a single amino acid substitution and the deletion of two amino acids within the sulfotransferase domain. Marker-resistance association analysis revealed that the markers L104-155 bp and R48-194 bp were highly correlated with RSV resistance in the 148 landrace varieties. These results provide a basis for the cloning of qSTV11(KAS), and the markers may be used for molecular breeding of RSV resistant rice varieties.
21384323	The history of plant virology has given much space to viruses, especially to Tobacco mosaic virus, but very little space to virus diseases. Still, viruses were clearly characterised only more than fifty years after the first observations and descriptions of diseases appearing infected with ineffable agents and, until the 1950s, most of the plant virologists spent a lot of time to study the disease as the preliminary but absolutely necessity in order to identify the virus. The first virus diseases to be investigated were the "tobacco mosaic" in Europe and "rice stunt" in Far East Asia, and both represented useful models for performing a great number of similar researches. The study of virus diseases made necessary the employment of several strategies, and the introduction of new techniques of research. The simple observation of external symptoms, not too selective and requiring broad experience, was followed by histological and cytological analyses which, in the period herein considered, were carried out by light microscopic methodologies. These analyses helped the research of the physiological causes of symptom formation, which, unfortunately, did not always profit from the interest of plant physiologists and biochemists. This schematic series of efforts was not always followed, since research often proceeded in an erratic way, according to the interest or the possibility of single virologists. However, the comprehensive view emerging from the historical analysis of results (for example, from the first textbook of this discipline) allows us to outline that logical sequence of events we have mentioned above. Obviously, the diffusion of viruses in field was one of most investigated line of research, as well as the individuation of the losses produced by virus diseases. From these fields of research (epidemiology and control), it was possible to enter the war to the most pathogenetic viruses by obtaining the first positive successes: this war became more and more pressing and is still current by the use of a very high technology. The work performed during seventy years at first by beginner virologists and afterwards by mature virologists, amounts to a splendid page of history of virology: This page has been written by hundreds and hundreds researchers, most of them quite neglected by the new generation of plant virologists. This history also represents a grateful homage to those researchers.
21384352	Miso, a fermented soybean paste prepared using koji (rice malt inoculated with Aspergillus oryzae) has been commonly used as a traditional seasoning for several centuries in East Asian countries. A miso-like fermented product was prepared using washed and unwashed meats of spotted mackerel (Scomber australasicus) with improved food functionality and aroma attributes. The evolution of aroma-active volatiles was further evaluated during the early stages of maturation. The newly developed fermented product was rich in flavor. The product was found to contain 98 volatile compounds, including aldehydes, alcohols, esters, ketones, furans, sulfur- and nitrogen-containing compounds, aromatics, and acids. Koji enzymes efficiently hydrolyzed protein and carbohydrate substrates in both the unwashed and washed fish meats. Significantly higher enzyme activities were observed when the unwashed meat was used as a raw material rather than when washed meat was used. The substrate specificity of koji enzymes plays an important role in the formation of volatile compounds. The results confirmed that meat washing can reduce the levels of certain aldehydes, ketones, and nitrogen-containing compounds, and can thereby provide a pleasant aroma by reducing fishy odor in the finished product.
21384360	Proteases hydrolyse storage proteins to provide precursors for perpetuating species. The aim of this study was to investigate and characterise different proteases in germinating brown rice. The protease activity of brown rice increased sevenfold during 7 days of germination. It was highest on day 6 when determined at pH 3.5. With casein as substrate the proteases showed two catalytic groups: acidic proteases with an optimal pH of 3.5 and alkaline proteases with an optimal pH of 8.0. The acidic protease activity was inhibited by Ba(2+) and Pb(2+) but stimulated by Zn(2+) , while the alkaline protease activity was inhibited by Ca(2+) and Pb(2+) but stimulated by Mg(2+) and Zn(2+) . SDS-gelatin-PAGE assay showed two protease activity bands at pH 3.5, while two different bands with higher molecular weights were observed at pH 8.0. Inhibition assay revealed that pepstatin A and E-64 inhibited 67.63 and 38.26% respectively of the protease activity at pH 3.5, indicating the presence of aspartic and cysteine proteases. Metalloproteases played a major role under alkaline conditions (88.37% inhibition with EDTA). Germinated brown rice proteases fall into different classes with different properties. This study is helpful for their further purification.
21384369	Fertiliser is an essential agro-chemical input in modern rice farming. Fertiliser affects the grain quality and yield of rice. Although much research has been carried out to investigate the influence of fertiliser (recommended NPK addition) on yield and quality of rice grain, little is known about the effect of fertiliser on thermal, pasting, gelling and retrogradation properties of rice flour. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of recommended fertilisation on functional properties of rice flour from four popular high yielding rice varieties grown in Sri Lanka. Fertiliser (recommended NPK addition) increased the protein content but reduced the apparent amylose content in rice flour except in BG 357. Swelling power and amylose leaching were decreased by fertilizer. [corrected] Pasting onset temperature, cold paste viscosity and setback were increased but peak viscosity and granular breakdown decreased. In response to the fertiliser application, gelatinisation peak temperature was reduced in all varieties except BG 300. However, compared to pasting properties, gelatinisation parameters were not much affected by fertilisation. The extent of amylopectin retrogradation was decreased by fertiliser in BG 305 and BG 352 but unchanged in the other two varieties. Except in BG 305, fertiliser reduced the gel hardness of rice flour but increased the gel cohesiveness. It is apparent that the increased protein and reduced amylose content caused by fertiliser affect the functional properties of rice flour.
21384921	Whole polished rice grains were ground using cryogenic and hammer milling to understand the mechanisms of degradation of starch granule structure, whole (branched) molecular structure, and individual branches of the molecules during particle size reduction (grinding). Hammer milling caused greater degradation to starch granules than cryogenic milling when the grains were ground to a similar volume-median diameter. Molecular degradation of starch was not evident in the cryogenically milled flours, but it was observed in the hammer-milled flours with preferential cleavage of longer (amylose) branches. This can be attributed to the increased grain brittleness and fracturability at cryogenic temperatures, reducing the mechanical energy required to diminish the grain size and thus reducing the probability of chain scission. The results indicate, for the first time, that branching, whole molecule, and granule structures of starch can be independently altered by varying grinding conditions, such as grinding force and temperature.
21385389	Ammonium is one of the major forms in which nitrogen is available for plant growth. OsAMT1;1 is a high-affinity ammonium transporter in rice (Oryza sativa L.), responsible for ammonium uptake at low nitrogen concentration. The expression pattern of the gene has been reported. However, variations in its nucleotides and the evolutionary pathway of its descent from wild progenitors are yet to be elucidated. In this study, nucleotide diversity of the gene OsAMT1;1 and the diversity pattern of seven gene fragments spanning a genomic region approximately 150 kb long surrounding the gene were surveyed by sequencing a panel of 216 rice accessions including both cultivated rice and wild relatives. Nucleotide polymorphism (Pi) of OsAMT1;1 was as low as 0.00004 in cultivated rice (Oryza sativa), only 2.3% of that in the common wild rice (O. rufipogon). A single dominant haplotype was fixed at the locus in O. sativa. The test values for neutrality were significantly negative in the entire region stretching 5' upstream and 3' downstream of the gene in all accessions. The value of linkage disequilibrium remained high across a 100 kb genomic region around OsAMT1;1 in O. sativa, but fell rapidly in O. rufipogon on either side of the promoter of OsAMT1;1, demonstrating a strong natural selection within or nearby the ammonium transporter. The severe reduction in nucleotide variation at OsAMT1;1 in rice was caused by a selective sweep around OsAMT1;1, which may reflect the nitrogen uptake system under strong selection by the paddy soil during the domestication of rice. Purifying selection also occurred before the wild rice diverged into its two subspecies, namely indica and japonica. These findings would provide useful insights into the processes of evolution and domestication of nitrogen uptake genes in rice.
21385395	Extensive DNA rearrangement of genic colinearity, as revealed by comparison of orthologous genomic regions, has been shown to be a general concept describing evolutionary dynamics of plant genomes. However, the nature, timing, lineages and adaptation of local genomic rearrangement in closely related species (e.g., within a genus) and haplotype variation of genomic rearrangement within populations have not been well documented. We previously identified a hotspot for genic rearrangement and transposon accumulation in the Orp region of Asian rice (Oryza sativa, AA) by comparison with its orthologous region in sorghum. Here, we report the comparative analysis of this region with its orthologous regions in the wild progenitor species (O. nivara, AA) of Asian rice and African rice (O. glaberrima) using the BB genome Oryza species (O. punctata) as an outgroup, and investigation of transposon insertion sites and a segmental inversion event in the AA genomes at the population level. We found that Orp region was primarily and recently expanded in the Asian rice species O. sativa and O. nivara. LTR-retrotransposons shared by the three AA-genomic regions have been fixed in all the 94 varieties that represent different populations of the AA-genome species/subspecies, indicating their adaptive role in genome differentiation. However, LTR-retrotransposons unique to either O. nivara or O. sativa regions exhibited dramatic haplotype variation regarding their presence or absence between or within populations/subpopulations. The LTR-retrotransposon insertion hotspot in the Orp region was formed recently, independently and concurrently in different AA-genome species, and that the genic rearrangements detected in different species appear to be differentially triggered by transposable elements. This region is located near the end of the short arm of chromosome 8 and contains a high proportion of LTR-retrotransposons similar to observed in the centromeric region of this same chromosome, and thus may represent a genomic region that has recently switched from euchromatic to heterochromatic states. The haplotype variation of LTR-retrotransposon insertions within this region reveals substantial admixture among various subpopulations as established by molecular markers at the whole genome level, and can be used to develop retrotransposon junction markers for simple and rapid classification of O. sativa germplasm.
21385504	Eating rate and bite size are important factors affecting food intake, and we hypothesise the underlying role of oral sensory exposure in this. However, the latter currently lacks objective measuring parameters, but an interesting measure could be the extent of in vivo retro-nasal aroma release. Second, the literature is ambiguous about overweight subjects differing from normal-weight subjects in eating behaviour. Consequently, we investigated: (1) whether eating behaviour (food intake, eating rate, bite size, number of bites and meal duration) relates to weight status and (2) whether the extent of retro-nasal aroma release relates to eating behaviour and weight status. A matched group (sex, age and dietary restraint) of twenty-seven normal-weight (BMI 21.8 (SD 1.6) kg/m2) and twenty-seven overweight/obese subjects (BMI 30.5 (SD 5.8) kg/m2) consumed a spiced rice meal and apple pie yogurt on separate test days. The extent of retro-nasal aroma release was measured on a third test day. Mean bite size for spiced rice was significantly (P = 0.03) larger in overweight/obese (10.3 (SD 3.2) g) v. normal-weight subjects (8.7 (SD 2.1) g). There were no other significant differences in eating behaviour or retro-nasal aroma release between the groups. Eating behaviours were not correlated with BMI or retro-nasal aroma release. Subjects showed consistent eating behaviour for both test products. Eating behaviour might be a characteristic of an individual but not by definition a characteristic for a group of people based on their weight. Given the large sample sizes, necessary according to a posteriori sample size calculations, one needs to consider the relevance of finding a statistically significant difference in eating behaviour between the weight groups in a laboratory setting.
21385782	The cell cycle is controlled by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), and CDK inhibitors are major regulators of their activities. The ICK/KRP family of CDK inhibitors has been reported in several plants, with seven members in arabidopsis; however, the phylogenetic relationship among members in different species is unknown. Also, there is a need to understand how these genes and proteins are regulated. Furthermore, little information is available on the functional differences among ICK/KRP family members. We searched publicly available databases and identified over 120 unique ICK/KRP protein sequences from more than 60 plant species. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using 101 full-length sequences from 40 species and intron-exon organization of ICK/KRP genes in model species. Conserved sequences and motifs were analysed using ICK/KRP protein sequences from arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), rice (Oryza sativa) and poplar (Populus trichocarpa). In addition, gene expression was examined using microarray data from arabidopsis, rice and poplar, and further analysed by RT-PCR for arabidopsis. Phylogenetic analysis showed that plant ICK/KRP proteins can be grouped into three major classes. Whereas the C-class contains sequences from dicotyledons, monocotyledons and gymnosperms, the A- and B-classes contain only sequences from dicotyledons or monocotyledons, respectively, suggesting that the A- and B-classes might have evolved from the C-class. This classification is also supported by exon-intron organization. Genes in the A- and B- classes have four exons, whereas genes in the C-class have only three exons. Analysis of sequences from arabidopsis, rice and poplar identified conserved sequence motifs, some of which had not been described previously, and putative functional sites. The presence of conserved motifs in different family members is consistent with the classification. In addition, gene expression analysis showed preferential expression of ICK/KRP genes in certain tissues. A model has been proposed for the evolution of this gene family in plants.
2138730
21387925	Effectof exopolysaccharides (EPS) produced by a consortium of cyanobacteria on germination of three crops wheat, maize and rice was studied at different salt concentrations. Production of EPS was found to be stimulated by salts, which in turn had a significant Na+ removal capability from aqueous solution. Seed germination, vigor index and mobilization efficiency in all the three crops remarkably improved when cyanobacterial EPS was applied. While germination improved significantly by 13 to 30%, mobilization efficiency increased marginally by 1.03 to 1.1 times and vigor index increased by 1.15 to 2.4 times in these crops in response to EPS under non-saline conditions. Salinity had an inhibitory effect on seed germination of all the species showing 18 to 54% reduction. However, in the presence of EPS, the salt induced inhibition diminished to 13 to 18%. Inhibitory effect of salt on chlorophyll concentration, vigor index and mobilization efficiency of the seedlings was much less in these crops in the presence of EPS, indicating the latter's role in salt stress alleviation.
21388416	Analysis of rice plants exposed to a broad range of relatively low and environmentally realistic Cd concentrations showed that the root capacity to retain Cd ions rose from 49 to 79%, corresponding to increases in the external Cd²+ concentration in the 0.01-1 µM range. Fractioning of Cd ions retained by roots revealed that different events along the metal sequestration pathway (i.e. chelation by thiols, vacuolar compartmentalization, adsorption) contributed to Cd immobilization in the roots. However, large amounts of Cd ions (around 24% of the total amount) predictable as potentially mobile were still found in all conditions, while the amount of Cd ions loaded in the xylem seemed to have already reached saturation at 0.1 µM Cd²+, suggesting that Cd translocation may also play an indirect role in determining Cd root retention, especially at the highest external concentrations. In silico search and preliminary analyses in yeast suggest OsHMA2 as a good candidate for the control of Cd xylem loading in rice. Taken as a whole, data indicate Cd chelation, compartmentalization, adsorption and translocation processes as components of a complex 'firewall system' which acts in limiting Cd translocation from the root to the shoot and which reaches different equilibrium positions depending on Cd external concentration.
21388655	A study was under taken, under controlled laboratory conditions, to investigate the influence of non-ionizing radiation (UV-B) and an organochlorine pesticide on the growth, photosynthetic pigments, protein content and DCPIP photoreduction of a cyanobacterium Nostoc carneum. Test algae was isolated from rice field soils of Sambalpur, Western Orissa, India and grown in nitrogen free BG 11 culture medium. Culture of algae from log phase of growth was treated with 5 pp m of the insecticide, Endodhan and UV-B (20 mW m(-2)) for 2h daily, separately and in combination of insecticide and UV-B radiation. Algal samples treated with UV-B and pesticide separately showed distinct inhibitory effects on growth, pigments, protein content and DCPIP reduction of the test samples. However, when pesticide treated samples were subjected to UV-B exposure, the effect showed additive as well as synergetic effect. Experiment conducted to check the ability of the organism to recover from the stress, exposed for various time periods, suggest their ability to partially recover from the stress.
21388921	In order to identify a specific marker for T. harzianum AS12-2, a strain capable of controlling rice sheath blight caused by Rhizoctonia solani, UP-PCR was performed using five universal primers (UP) both separately and in pairwise combinations. The application of two UP primers resulted in the amplification of unique fragments from the genomic DNA of T. harzianum AS12-2, clearly distinguishing it from other Trichoderma strains. The unique fragments had no significant sequence homology with any other known sequence available in databases. Based on the sequences of the unique fragments, 14 oligonucleotide primers were designed. Two primer sets amplified a fragment of expected size from the DNA of strain T. harzianum AS12-2 but not from any other examined strains belonging to T. harzianum, to other Trichoderma species assayed, or to other common fungi present in paddy fields of Mazandaran province, Iran. In conclusion, SCAR (sequence characterized amplified regions) markers were successfully identified and rapid, reliable tools were provided for the detection of an effective biocontrol Trichoderma strain, which can facilitate studies of its population dynamics and establishment after release into the natural environment.
21389598	Cellulase-free xylanase production by thermophilic Streptomyces thermovulgaris TISTR1948 was cultivated in a basal medium with rice straw as sole source of carbon and as an inducible substrate. Variable medium components were selected in accordance with the Plackett-Burman experimental design. The optimization conditions of physical factors (pH and temperature levels) were then combined in further studies through the response surface methodology approach. Only two significant components, rice straw and yeast extract, were chosen for the optimization studies. A second-order quadratic model was constructed by central composite design (CCD). The model revealed that both pH and temperature levels were significant, and were dependent on xylanase production. Under these experimental designs, the xylanase yield increased from 51.11 to 274.49 U/mL (3,400 to 10,000 U/g of rice straw) or about 537% higher than an unoptimized basal medium. The optimum conditions to achieve maximum yield of xylanase were 27.45 g/L of rice straw and 5.42 g/L of yeast extract under relatively neutral conditions of pH 7.11, 50.03 °C, and a incubation period.
21389608	Red onion accelerated the germination of rice seeds and inhibited microbial infestation during germination. After germination with red onion for 16 h at 35 °C, super-hard rice EM10 showed a higher germination ratio (2.3 times), and it contained more GABA (2.3 times) and glucose (2.9 times) than that soaked without onion. Due to soaking with red onion, germinated EM10 was fortified with quercetin (18 mg/100 g).
21389931	Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) is the leading cause of vaccine-preventable encephalitis in Asia and the western Pacific. JEV is maintained in an enzootic cycle involving mosquitoes and amplifying vertebrate hosts, mainly pigs and wading birds. The virus is transmitted to humans primarily by Culex mosquitoes, which breed in flooded rice fields and pools of stagnant water and most often feed outdoors during the evening and night. JEV transmission occurs mainly in rural agricultural areas, but occasional human cases occur in urban areas. Japanese encephalitis (JE) in persons who have traveled or lived overseas is diagnosed infrequently in the United States, with only four cases identified from 1992 (when a JE vaccine was first licensed in the United States) to 2008. This report describes the only cases diagnosed in the United States and reported to CDC since then. The first was a fatal case in a U.S. child who had visited relatives in the Philippines. The other occurred in a refugee who became ill while traveling from Thailand to the United States and whose diagnosis was complicated by concurrent neurocysticercosis. JE should be considered in the differential diagnosis for any patient with an acute neurologic infection who recently has been in a JE-endemic country. Travelers to JE-endemic countries should be advised of the risk for JE and the importance of personal protective measures to prevent mosquito bites. JE vaccine should be considered for travelers who might be at greater risk based on the season, location, and duration of their visit and their planned activities.
21390234	Huge efforts have been invested in the last two decades to dissect the genetic bases of complex traits including yields of many crop plants, through quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses. However, almost all the studies were based on linkage maps constructed using low-throughput molecular markers, e.g. restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) and simple sequence repeats (SSRs), thus are mostly of low density and not able to provide precise and complete information about the numbers and locations of the genes or QTLs controlling the traits. In this study, we constructed an ultra-high density genetic map based on high quality single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from low-coverage sequences of a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population of rice, generated using new sequencing technology. The quality of the map was assessed by validating the positions of several cloned genes including GS3 and GW5/qSW5, two major QTLs for grain length and grain width respectively, and OsC1, a qualitative trait locus for pigmentation. In all the cases the loci could be precisely resolved to the bins where the genes are located, indicating high quality and accuracy of the map. The SNP map was used to perform QTL analysis for yield and three yield-component traits, number of tillers per plant, number of grains per panicle and grain weight, using data from field trials conducted over years, in comparison to QTL mapping based on RFLPs/SSRs. The SNP map detected more QTLs especially for grain weight, with precise map locations, demonstrating advantages in detecting power and resolution relative to the RFLP/SSR map. Thus this study provided an example for ultra-high density map construction using sequencing technology. Moreover, the results obtained are helpful for understanding the genetic bases of the yield traits and for fine mapping and cloning of QTLs.
21390620	The rapid development of tissue culture and recombinant-DNA technology in recent years has enabled plants of many species to be regenerated from cultured cells and their genetic information to be manipulated in various ways. Gene transfer has already resulted in the production of a wide range of transgenic dicotyledons, particularly in the Solanaceue. Although success with monocotyledons is more limited, transgenic rye (1), maize (2), and rice (3) plants have been reported.
21391395	Rice crop (var. Luit) was grown under controlled conditions in paper mill effluent contaminated soil and irrigated with undiluted paper mill effluent as well as normal water and compared the results against a control treatment consisting of similar unaffected soil irrigated with normal water. The effluent was alkaline (pH 7.5), containing high soluble salts (EC 2.93 dS m(-1)), chloride (600 mg L(-1)) and total dissolved solids (1875 mg L(-1)). At maximum tillering (MT) stage effluent irrigation significantly (P < 0.05) reduced the leaf numbers per hill and leaf area by 19.8 and 36.4 %, respectively. Tiller number and maximum root length were reduced by 19.3% and 12.5%, respectively at fifty percent flowering (FF) stage. Effluent irrigated crop recorded significant reduction in the dry matter production (17.5-24.9%) and grain yield (19%). Unfilled grain was increased by 10.7%. Higher concentration of sodium, calcium and magnesium in the effluent irrigated soil affected K uptake. Available soil P was lowest while available N, K, S and exchangeable and water soluble Na, K, Ca, Mg were highest in effluent irrigated soil. Chloride content found to increase (3-7 folds) while microbial biomass carbon reduced (10-37%). The adverse effect of the paper mill effluent on the crop as well as on the affected soil could be reduced significantly through normal water irrigation.
21391495	The Monascus fermentation product red mold rice (RMR) has been found to contain the cholesterol-lowering agent monacolin K (MK) in both its lactone (MKL) and acid (MKA) forms and the mycotoxin citrinin (CT). The yellow pigments in RMR, namely, monascin (MS) and ankaflavin (AK), have been reported to exhibit antimetastatic and antiangiogenic activities. Currently, MK and these yellow pigments are usually detected in RMR by different analytical methods that are inconvenient, expensive, and time-consuming. The goal of this study was to establish a rapid, synchronous analytical method for determination of the MKA, MKL, MS, AK, and CT levels in RMR. MKA, MKL, MS, AK, and CT were extracted by the same extraction method, then separated by RP-HPLC with a C18 column. The effluent from the column was passed through a photodiode array detector and then introduced directly into a fluorescence detector. The results showed that high recovery rates of MKA, MKL, MS, AK, and CT are possible if RMR powder is extracted with 75% ethanol (10 mL) at 80 degrees C for 30 min. With regard to the optimal conditions of the HPLC, the peaks of MKA, MKL, MS, AK, and CT can be clearly separated from any noise peaks by isocratic elution with a mobile phase comprising 0.05% trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile-water (62.5 + 37.5, v/v).
2139168	A cDNA library constructed from mRNAs obtained from developing rice endosperm was screened with a cDNA clone (lambda RM7) of highest frequency of occurrence (1.8%). The translation product directed by the mRNA which was hybrid-released from lambda RM7 cDNA in a wheat germ cell-free system showed a molecular size of 13 kDa when coexisting with the protein body fraction of developing maize endosperm. A polypeptide sequence composed of 156 amino acids was deduced from the nucleotide sequence. By comparison with the 19 N-terminal amino acids obtained from Edman degradation of the isolated rice 13 kDa prolamin fraction, the signal sequence was determined as consisting of 19 amino acids. The deduced polypeptide is rich in hydrophobic amino acids such as Leu and Val, and also in Gln, but lacks Lys. Hence, the amino acid composition is consistent with that of rice 13 kDa prolamin. By homology with previously reported cereal prolamins, only a single octapeptide sequence, Gln-Gln-Gln-Cys-Cys-Gln-Gln-Leu, which was observed in 15 kDa and 27 kDa zein, B- and gamma-hordein, alpha/beta- and gamma-gliadin, and gamma-secalin was conserved in the rice 10 kDa and 13 kDa prolamin. No repetitive sequences and/or sequences homologous to other cereal prolamins, except the above octapeptide, were observed for the mature 13 kDa prolamin polypeptide. The signal sequence region of the 13 kDa prolamin, however, shows homology of more than 65% in both the nucleotide sequence and the amino acid sequence with rice 10 kDa prolamin and maize zein.
2139209
21392335	The Yangtze vole (Microtus fortis Buechner, 1889) is a small herbivore species that inhabits lake beaches in the Dongting Lake region along the Yangtze River in Southern China. Its population shows strong oscillations during the wet season due to summer precipitation-induced immigration away from the lake into adjacent rice fields. The effect of El Niño-Southern Oscillation-driven precipitation on population abundance and growth of the vole species is not fully understood. We undertook an analysis of the combined data of 4 time series covering 1981-2006 from 4 different sites and a separate analysis on a single time series (1981-2006) from one site. Our results demonstrate that a dual effect of El Niño-Southern Oscillation-driven precipitation on the population abundance of voles is time-dependent: precipitation in the current year has a positive effect, whereas precipitation in the previous year has a negative effect. The dual effect of precipitation on vole population is well explained by the unique interactions among vole population, precipitation water level and the lake beach habitat around Dongting Lake. We found that drier than average weather of the previous year benefited voles because their breeding habitats, lake beaches, were exposed for long stretches of time. Wet weather was found to increase the number of voles inhabiting rice fields because as the water level of the lake rose they were forced from beaches into surrounding rice fields. Summer precipitation in the Dongting Lake region was found to be positively associated with the sea surface temperature (SST) of the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean of the previous year and winter SST and spring SST of the current year. Annual rates of increase in the vole population of the reconstructed time series are negatively associated with the vole abundance and autumn precipitation of the previous year and winter precipitation of the current years. These results suggest that both extrinsic and density-dependent intrinsic factors may affect population dynamics of the Yangtze voles.
21392813	Heavy metals have become one of the most serious anthropogenic stressors for plants and other living organisms. Having efficient and feasible bioassays available to assess the ecotoxicological risks deriving from soil pollution is necessary. This work determines pollution by Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb, V and Zn in two soils used for growing rice from the Albufera Natural Park in Valencia (Spain). Both were submitted to a different degree of anthropic activity, and their ecotoxicological risk was assessed by four ecotoxicity tests to compare their effectiveness: Microtox test, Zucconi test, pot bioassay (PB) and soil plate bioassay (SPB). The sensitivity of three plant species (barley, cress and lettuce) was also assessed. The results reveal a different degree of effectiveness and level of inhibition in the target organisms' growth depending on the test applied, to such an extent that the one-way analysis of variance showed significant differences only for the plate bioassay results, with considerable inhibition of root and shoot elongation in seedlings. Of the three plant species selected, lettuce was the most sensitive species to toxic effects, followed by cress and barley. Finally, the results also indicate that the SPB is an efficient, simple and economic alternative to other ecotoxicological assays to assess toxicity risks deriving from soil pollution.
21392842	Here, we investigated chemical-mediated interaction between crop and weeds. Allelopathic activity of rice seedlings exhibited 5.3-6.3-fold increases when rice and barnyard grass seedlings were grown together, where there may be the competitive interference between rice and barnyard grass for nutrients. Barnyard grass is one of the most noxious weeds in rice cultivation. The momilactone B concentration in rice seedlings incubated with barnyard grass seedlings was 6.9-fold greater than that in rice seedlings incubated independently. Low nutrient growth conditions also increased allelopathic activity and momilactone B concentrations in rice seedlings. However, the increases in the low nutrient-induced allelopathic activity and momilactone B concentration were much lower than those in barnyard grass-induced allelopathic activity and momilactone B concentration. Root exudates of barnyard grass seedlings increased allelopathic activity and momilactone B concentration in rice seedlings at concentrations greater than 30 mg/L of the root exudates, and increasing the exudate concentration increased the activity and momilactone B concentration. Therefore, barnyard grass-induced allelopathic activity of rice seedlings may be caused not only by nutrient competition between two species, but also by components in barnyard grass root exudates. As momilactone B shows strong allelopathic activities, barnyard grass-induced allelopathic activity of rice may be due to the increased concentration of momilactone B in rice seedlings. The present research suggests that rice may respond to the presence of neighboring barnyard grass by sensing the components in barnyard grass root exudates and increasing allelopathic activity by production of elevated concentration of momilactone B. Thus, rice allelopathy may be one of the inducible defense mechanisms by chemical-mediated plant interaction between rice and barnyard grass, and the induced-allelopathy may provide a competitive advantage for rice through suppression of the growth of barnyard grass.
21392843	A diet restricted to rice and boiled fruit and vegetables leads to vitamin C deficiency. We describe the third case, to our knowledge, of retinal hemorrhages related to scurvy. Reduced bilateral visual acuity in a 50-year-old patient was associated with macrocytic anemia, denutrition, and cutaneous ecchymoses. Oral vitamin C treatment provided subjective clinical improvement and regression of the retinal hemorrhages on fundus examination, with no side effects. Vitamin C plays an important role in collagen stability in vascular and bone walls.
21392977	In this paper, a sulfur trioxide collaborative dilutes alkali method has been developed to pre-treat rice straw and it has been studied that the pre-treated rice straw structure affected the saccharification of the rice straw hydrolyzed by cellulose enzymatic hydrolysis. The results show that the reaction of the sulfur trioxide with rice straw resulted in the internal micro-thermal explosion, and the saccharification rate was 91% based on the pretreated rice straw with sulfur trioxide for 4h following 1% w/v NaOH treatment for 7h at 50°C.
21394668	The filamentous fungus Fusarium oxysporum is known for its ability to ferment xylose-producing ethanol. However, efficiency of xylose utilization and ethanol yield was low. In this study, the transaldolase gene from Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been successfully expressed in F. oxysporum by an Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation method. The enzymatic activity of the recombinant fungus (cs28pCAM-Sctal4) was 0.195 times higher than that of the wild-type strain (cs28). The recombinant strain also exhibited a 28.83% increase in ethanol yield on xylose media compared to the parental strain. Enhanced ethanol production and a reduction in the biomass were observed during xylose fermentation. Ethanol yield from rice straw by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation with cs28pCAM-Sctal4 was 0.25 g g⁻¹ of rice straw. The transgenic strain of F. oxysporum cs28pCAM-Sctal4 might therefore have potential applications in industrial bioenergy production.
21394874	Transgenic crops that produce insecticidal toxins from the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner (Bt) were first commercialised in 1996. The risk that pests have the potential to evolve resistance to Bt toxins is one of the most serious challenges to this technology. Gene stacking, pyramiding two Bt genes into one variety, is considered to be an effective insect resistance management (IRM) strategy. In this study, insect-resistant rice expressing two Bt genes was developed by sexual crossing, and then characterised. Homozygous rice lines of two pyramided Bt genes were obtained in the F(3) generation. Quantification of Bt toxin showed that protein concentrations of Cry1Ab, Cry1Ac and Cry2A in the two-gene lines were comparable with their single-gene parents, while the expression of cry1C gene decreased after gene stacking. Four two-gene lines showed higher activity to striped stem borer (Chilo suppressalis Walker) than parental lines in the laboratory bioassay. All pyramided lines and their hybrids exhibited excellent efficacy against stemborers and leaffolders in field evaluation, while most pyramided lines had no significant differences from original variety in yield under spraying of insecticide. These results demonstrate that the two-gene lines have commercial potential and could serve as a valuable IRM strategy.
21395203	Notocotylus loeiensis n. sp. (Trematoda: Notocotylidae) is described from the cecum of the lesser rice field rat (Rattus losea), from Loei Province in Thailand with a prevalence of 9.1% (eight of 88 rats infected). The new species differs from previously described Notocotylus species mainly by the extreme prebifurcal position of the genital pore and the number of ventral papillae. This is the first description at the species level of Notocotylus from mammals in Southeast Asia.
21395310	The environmental significance of enantioselectivity in chiral insecticides and herbicides has been widely studied. However, little information is currently available on the enantioselective behavior of chiral plant growth regulators. In this study, paclobutrazol enantiomers were resolved and prepared by chiral high-performance liquid chromatography with a Sino-chiral OJ column. The relationship among absolute configuration, optical activity and circular dichroism of paclobutrazol enantiomers was established. The enantioselective behavior of paclobutrazol, including enantioselective effect of paclobutrazol on the growth of rice seedlings and cyanobacteria and enantioselective loss of paclobutrazol in rice seedling growth media, in rice culture system was studied. The (2S,3S)-(-)-enantiomer was almost 3.1 times more active than the (2R,3R)-(+)-enantiomer toward shoot growth as measured by 7 day EC50 values. Enantioselectivity could not be determined with respect to root growth of rice seedlings because a typical dosage response was not observed in the range of the concentrations studied. The dissipation of paclobutrazol in rice growth medium is not enantioselective. Enantiomers and diastereoisomer of paclobutrazol all facilitated the growth of cyanobacteria, which increase the effectiveness of rice biofertilizers. The (2S,3S)-(-)-enantiomer showed stronger stimulatory activity on Microcystis aeruginosa cyanobacteria than the (2R,3R)-(+)-enantiomer, whereas the latter was a more potent stimulator of Anabaena sp. growth. These observations indicate that application of the (2S,3S)-(-)-enantiomer of paclobutrazol and Microcystis aeruginosa in rice cultivation is a good strategy for improving rice seedling performance.
21395891	Despite its widespread distribution and high levels of phylogenetic diversity, microbes are poorly understood creatures. We applied a phylogenetic ecology approach in the Kingdom Euryarchaeota (Archaea) to gain insight into the environmental distribution and evolutionary history of one of the most ubiquitous and largely unknown microbial groups. We compiled 16S rRNA gene sequences from our own sequence libraries and public genetic databases for two of the most widespread mesophilic Euryarchaeota clades, Lake Dagow Sediment (LDS) and Rice Cluster-V (RC-V). The inferred population history indicated that both groups have undergone specific nonrandom evolution within environments, with several noteworthy habitat transition events. Remarkably, the LDS and RC-V groups had enormous levels of genetic diversity when compared with other microbial groups, and proliferation of sequences within each single clade was accompanied by significant ecological differentiation. Additionally, the freshwater Euryarchaeota counterparts unexpectedly showed high phylogenetic diversity, possibly promoted by their environmental adaptability and the heterogeneous nature of freshwater ecosystems. The temporal phylogenetic diversification pattern of these freshwater Euryarchaeota was concentrated both in early times and recently, similarly to other much less diverse but deeply sampled archaeal groups, further stressing that their genetic diversity is a function of environment plasticity. For the vast majority of living beings on Earth (i.e. the uncultured microorganisms), how they differ in the genetic or physiological traits used to exploit the environmental resources is largely unknown. Inferring population history from 16S rRNA gene-based molecular phylogenies under an ecological perspective may shed light on the intriguing relationships between lineage, environment, evolution and diversity in the microbial world.
21395946	To determine the stability and conidial yield of two strains of the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae and one strain of M. brunneum, being developed for the control of insect pests. The conidial yields and the shelf-life of the conidia of two commercially viable strains of M. anisopliae V275 (=F52) and ARSEF 4556 and one strain of M. brunneum (ARSEF 3297) were determined after harvesting conidia from in vitro subcultures on Sabouraud dextrose agar (SDA) and broken basmati rice. The strains were stable and showed no decline in virulence against Tenebrio molitor, even when subcultured successively 12 times on SDA. Conidia-bound Pr1 protease activity decreased in conidia harvested from SDA and mycosed cadavers after the 1st subculture, but increased in conidia produced on rice. The C:N ratio of conidia from mycosed cadavers was lower than that of conidia from rice or SDA. Irrespective of the number of subcultures, strain ARSEF 4556 produced significantly higher conidial yields than ARSEF 3297 and V275. The 12th subculture of V275 and ARSEF 3297 produced the lowest conidial yield. Shelf-life studies showed that conidia of strain ARSEF 4556 had a higher conidial viability than V275 and ARSEF 3297 after 4 months, stored at 4°C. The current study shows that determining strain stability and conidial yield through successive subculturing is an essential component for selecting the best strain for commercial purposes. This is the first study to compare quality control parameters in the production of conidia on rice, and it shows that the level of Pr1 is comparatively high for inoculum produced on rice.
21396033	Rice production in Vietnam is threatened by rodent pests, with a significant increase in impact reported from 1990 through to the early 21st century. Pre-harvest rice losses are typically 5-10%, with losses of >20% occurring in some years in some regions. Farmers' rodent control practices are generally reactive and rely essentially on chemical and physical methods. Ecologically-based rodent pest management (EBRM) was developed in the late 1990s to manage rodents in rice-based farming systems in Vietnam and other parts of South-East Asia. EBRM combines both cultural and physical rodent management practices such as synchrony of cropping, short 2-week rat campaigns at key periods in key habitats, increasing general hygiene around villages, and use of a community trap-barrier system. Although EBRM has been reported to be economically profitable, the successful adoption of this set of technologies requires community participation. In this paper we address issues relating to the adoption and sustainability of EBRM in lowland irrigated rice fields in the Mekong Delta in Vietnam. We particularly explore the social and cultural mechanisms involved in maintaining community participation to further understand the conditions under which EBRM works and does not work. Positive indications of sustained use of community-based EBRM include: a policy pronouncement from the prime minister directing the use of integrated rodent management; the use of existing cooperatives for developing community actions; budgetary allocation from provincial and local governments; diffusion of EBRM to provinces in the south and north that are not involved in farmer participatory field trials; and the adoption of EBRM by a non-governmental organization, World Vision Vietnam, in their area-development programs.
21396042	In this study, the ecological effects of culling programs are considered in the context of rodent pest management. Despite the escalation of rodent problems globally, over the past quarter of a century there have not been many new developments in culling programs directed at managing these populations. There is a strong reliance on broad scale use of chemical rodenticides or other lethal methods of control. The ecological consequences of culling programs based on chemical rodenticides and bounty systems are considered. Although rodents cause tremendous economic hardship to people on a continental scale, usually less than 10% of species cause substantial impacts. Indeed, many species of rodent provide important "ecological services" and, given that culling programs rarely distinguish between rodent species, often the non-pest rodents are at grave risk. Rodent control is conducted with little appreciation of what proportion of the population would need to be culled for a significant reduction in economic damage. In Indonesian rice fields, once rodent densities are high then a reduction in yield loss from 30% to 15% would require more than 75% of the population to be culled; a reduction to less than 5% yield loss would require more than a 95% cull. The negative ecological consequences of culling can be better managed if the method is specifically tailored to the species that need to be managed. A greater emphasis on ecologically-based rodent management would assist markedly in reducing the unwanted and unintended effects of culling.
21396108	Bacterial spot of tomato and pepper is caused by four Xanthomonas species and is a major plant disease in warm humid climates. The four species are distinct from each other based on physiological and molecular characteristics. The genome sequence of strain 85-10, a member of one of the species, Xanthomonas euvesicatoria (Xcv) has been previously reported. To determine the relationship of the four species at the genome level and to investigate the molecular basis of their virulence and differing host ranges, draft genomic sequences of members of the other three species were determined and compared to strain 85-10. We sequenced the genomes of X. vesicatoria (Xv) strain 1111 (ATCC 35937), X. perforans (Xp) strain 91-118 and X. gardneri (Xg) strain 101 (ATCC 19865). The genomes were compared with each other and with the previously sequenced Xcv strain 85-10. In addition, the molecular features were predicted that may be required for pathogenicity including the type III secretion apparatus, type III effectors, other secretion systems, quorum sensing systems, adhesins, extracellular polysaccharide, and lipopolysaccharide determinants. Several novel type III effectors from Xg strain 101 and Xv strain 1111 genomes were computationally identified and their translocation was validated using a reporter gene assay. A homolog to Ax21, the elicitor of XA21-mediated resistance in rice, and a functional Ax21 sulfation system were identified in Xcv. Genes encoding proteins with functions mediated by type II and type IV secretion systems have also been compared, including enzymes involved in cell wall deconstruction, as contributors to pathogenicity. Comparative genomic analyses revealed considerable diversity among bacterial spot pathogens, providing new insights into differences and similarities that may explain the diverse nature of these strains. Genes specific to pepper pathogens, such as the O-antigen of the lipopolysaccharide cluster, and genes unique to individual strains, such as novel type III effectors and bacteriocin genes, have been identified providing new clues for our understanding of pathogen virulence, aggressiveness, and host preference. These analyses will aid in efforts towards breeding for broad and durable resistance in economically important tomato and pepper cultivars.
21397399	Highly efficient Li(4)SiO(4) (lithium orthosilicate)-based sorbents for CO(2) capture at high temperature, was developed using waste materials (rice husk ash). Two treated rice husk ash (RHA) samples (RHA1 and RHA2) were prepared and calcined at 800°C in the presence of Li(2)CO(3). Pure Li(4)SiO(4) and RHA-based sorbents were characterized by X-ray fluorescence, X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, nitrogen adsorption, and thermogravimetry. CO(2) sorption was tested through 15 carbonation/calcination cycles in a fixed bed reactor. The metals of RHA were doped with Li(4)SiO(4) resulting to inhibited growth of the particles and increased pore volume and surface area. Thermal analyses indicated a much better CO(2) absorption in Li(4)SiO(4)-based sorbent prepared from RHA1 (higher metal content sample) because the activation energies for the chemisorption process and diffusion process were smaller than that of pure Li(4)SiO(4). RHA1-based sorbent also maintained higher capacities during the multiple cycles.
21397557	In order to establish an efficient bioethanol production system from rice straw, a new strategy to ferment the mixture of glucose and xylose by a sequential application of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pichia stipitis was developed, in which heat inactivation of S. cerevisiae cells before addition of P. stipitis was employed. The results showed that heating at 50°C for 6h was sufficient to give high xylose fermentation efficiency. By application of the inactivation process, 85% of the theoretical yield was achieved in the fermentation of the synthetic medium. At the same time, the xylitol production was reduced by 42.4% of the control process. In the simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of the lime-pretreated and CO(2)-neutralized rice straw, the inactivation of S. cerevisiae cells enabled the full conversion of glucose and xylose within 80 h. Finally, 21.1g/l of ethanol was produced from 10% (w/w) of pretreated rice straw and the ethanol yield of rice straw reached 72.5% of the theoretical yield. This process is expected to be useful for the ethanol production from lignocellulosic materials in the regions where large-scale application of recombinant microorganisms was restricted.
21397903	A multiresidue method was developed for the quantification and confirmation of 70 pesticides in paddy field water. After its filtration, water was injected directly in a liquid chromatograph coupled to a hybrid triple quadrupole-linear ion trap-mass spectrometer (QqLIT). The list of target analytes included organophosphates, phenylureas, sulfonylureas, carbamates, conazoles, imidazolinones and others compounds widely used in different countries where rice is cropped. Detection and quantification limits achieved were in the range from 0.4 to 80 ng L(-1) and from 2 to 150 ng L(-1), respectively. Correlation coefficients for the calibration curves in the range 0.1-50 μg L(-1) were higher than 0.99 except for diazinon (0.1-25 μg L(-1)). Only 9 pesticides presented more than 20% of signal suppression/enhancement, no matrix effect was observed in the studied conditions for the rest of the target pesticides. The method developed was used to investigate the occurrence of pesticides in 59 water samples collected in paddy fields located in Spain and Uruguay. The study shows the presence of bensulfuron methyl, tricyclazole, carbendazim, imidacloprid, tebuconazole and quinclorac in a concentration range from 0.08 to 7.20 μg L(-1).
21398538	Bacteria of the deeply branching phylum Verrucomicrobia are rarely cultured yet commonly detected in metagenomic libraries from aquatic, terrestrial, and intestinal environments. We have sequenced the genome of Opitutus terrae PB90-1, a fermentative anaerobe within this phylum, isolated from rice paddy soil and capable of propionate production from plant-derived polysaccharides.
21398631	SyMAP (Synteny Mapping and Analysis Program) was originally developed to compute synteny blocks between a sequenced genome and a FPC map, and has been extended to support pairs of sequenced genomes. SyMAP uses MUMmer to compute the raw hits between the two genomes, which are then clustered and filtered using the optional gene annotation. The filtered hits are input to the synteny algorithm, which was designed to discover duplicated regions and form larger-scale synteny blocks, where intervening micro-rearrangements are allowed. SyMAP provides extensive interactive Java displays at all levels of resolution along with simultaneous displays of multiple aligned pairs. The synteny blocks from multiple chromosomes may be displayed in a high-level dot plot or three-dimensional view, and the user may then drill down to see the details of a region, including the alignments of the hits to the gene annotation. These capabilities are illustrated by showing their application to the study of genome duplication, differential gene loss and transitive homology between sorghum, maize and rice. The software may be used from a website or standalone for the best performance. A project manager is provided to organize and automate the analysis of multi-genome groups. The software is freely distributed at http://www.agcol.arizona.edu/software/symap.
21398647	The production of both ABA and H₂O₂ is induced by drought and can act as signals under stress conditions. We investigated the relationships between ABA, H₂O₂ and catalase (CAT) in rice leaves when rice seedlings were treated with polyethylene glycol as water stress treatment. As a key gene in ABA biosynthesis, OsNCED3 was significantly induced in rice by water stress treatment and such induction preceded the rapid increase in ABA. Water stress inhibited the expression of CATA and CATC but substantially enhanced the expression of CATB. Exogenously applied ABA promoted the expression of CATB also and inhibited the expression of CATC in a concentration-dependent manner. When ABA production was inhibited by using ABA biosynthesis inhibitors nordihydroguaiaretic acid and tungstate, expression of CATB was also subdued while CATC was enhanced under the water stress. Accumulation of H₂O₂ was also reduced when endogenous ABA production was inhibited and showed a correlation with the total activity of catalases. Our results suggest that water stress-induced ABA prevents the excessive accumulation of H₂O₂, through the induction of the expression of CATB gene during water stress.
21399580	Japanese encephalitis (JE) virus activity is an important cause of viral encephalitis in Southeast Asia. In Malaysia, JEV activity has been first detected in Culex gelidus in 1976. Since then, no study has fully addressed the seasonal dynamics of this mosquito. As irrigated rice production expands, the incidence of JEV vectors, particularly Cx. gelidus is expected to increase. We surveyed Penang Island to determine the breeding patterns of Cx. gelidus and their potential insect predators, in relation to habitat/niche and rice growing period. Six rice fields proper (RFP) and related drainage canals (DC) were visited through three cultivation cycles (CCs) over 17 months. Weekly visits were performed to each of the 36 sites and mosquito larvae and aquatic insects were sampled from RFP and DCs using dippers. Culex gelidus was abundant in RFP and almost absent in DCs. Its densities usually were high during the first and 3rd CC and when the RFs were in Fp, Pp and Gp. In DCs, the mosquito was abundant during Mp, e.g., 2nd CC. Predators, especially those belonging to the families Corixidae, Coenagrionidae and Dytiscidae, were more present in RFP. Predator numbers usually were high during the first CC; in some cases predator abundance peaked during other CCs, e.g., corixids and dysticids. In RFP, neither corixids nor coenagrionids showed any positive correlation with densities of Cx. gelidus. However, dytiscids' population peaked when the mosquito densities were on the rise. These observations suggest that Cx. gelidus is active during the period of rice cultivation. Operational vector control through bio-control or with insecticides near the end of the rice cultivation season in RFP may prove beneficial in reducing the density of Cx. gelidus, but also the amount of bio-agent or insecticide applied on riceland.
21399748	The simulation of rural land use systems, in general, and rural settlement dynamics in particular has developed with synergies of theory and methods for decades. Three current issues are: linking spatial patterns and processes, representing hierarchical relations across scales, and considering nonlinearity to address complex non-stationary settlement dynamics. We present a hierarchical simulation model to investigate complex rural settlement dynamics in Nang Rong, Thailand. This simulation uses sub-models to allocate new villages at three spatial scales. Regional and sub-regional models, which involve a nonlinear space-time autoregressive model implemented in a neural network approach, determine the number of new villages to be established. A dynamic village niche model, establishing pattern-process link, was designed to enable the allocation of villages into specific locations. Spatiotemporal variability in model performance indicates the pattern of village location changes as a settlement frontier advances from rice-growing lowlands to higher elevations. Experiments results demonstrate this simulation model can enhance our understanding of settlement development in Nang Rong and thus gain insight into complex land use systems in this area.
21399992	Seed germination capability of rice is one of the important traits in the production and storage of seeds. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with seed germination capability in various storage periods was identified using two sets of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) which derived from crosses between Milyang 23 and Tong 88-7 (MT-RILs) and between Dasanbyeo and TR22183 (DT-RILs). A total of five and three main additive effects (QTLs) associated with seed germination capability were identified in MT-RILs and DT-RILs, respectively. Among them, six QTLs were identified repeatedly in various seed storage periods designated as qMT-SGC5.1, qMT-SGC7.2, and qMT-SGC9.1 on chromosomes 5, 7, and 9 in MT-RILs, and qDT-SGC2.1, qDT-SGC3.1, and qDT-SGC9.1 on chromosomes 2, 3, and 9 in DT-RILs, respectively. The QTL on chromosome 9 was identified in both RIL populations under all three storage periods, explaining up to 40% of the phenotypic variation. Eight and eighteen pairs additive × additive epistatic effect (epistatic QTL) were identified in MT-RILs and DT-RILs, respectively. In addition, several near isogenic lines (NILs) were developed to confirm six repeatable QTL effects using controlled deterioration test (CDT). The identified QTLs will be further studied to elucidate the mechanisms controlling seed germination capability, which have important implications for long-term seed storage.
21400017	Accumulation of proline is trusted to be an adaptive response of plants against drought stress, and exogenous application of nitric oxide (NO) enhances proline accumulation in Cu-treated algae. In order to investigate whether NO works as a necessary signaling molecule in drought-induced proline accumulation in rice leaves, effects of drought stress on endogenous NO content and proline accumulation were studied in rice leaves, using sodium nitroprusside (SNP, a NO donor) and 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (cPTIO, a NO scavenger). The results showed that drought treatment increased both endogenous NO and proline contents in rice leaves, while foliar spray of various concentrations of SNP failed to induce proline accumulation in the leaves of well-watered rice and foliar spray of cPTIO failed to inhibit proline accumulation in the leaves of drought-stressed rice. These results indicate that increase of endogenous NO is dispensable for proline accumulation in the leaves of rice under drought stress. Further studies indicate that exogenous application of NO alleviates drought-induced water loss and ion leakage by decreasing transpiration rate of rice leaves.
21400079	A novel method for the direct and sensitive analysis of powder samples has been developed by utilizing the characteristics of a transversely excited atmospheric (TEA) CO(2) laser. In this study, a powder sample was placed in a container and covered by a metal mesh; the metal mesh functions to control the blowing-off of the powder. The container was then perpendicularly attached on a metal surface. When a TEA CO(2) laser (1.5 J, 200 ns) was focused on the metal surface, a large hemispherical gas plasma (radius of around 8 mm) with long emission lifetime (several tens of microseconds) was produced without ablating the metal surface. The high-speed expansion force of the gas plasma samples the powder covered by the metal mesh and fine powder particles are sent into the gas plasma region to be dissociated and excited. Sensitive semi-quantitative analysis was made on organic powder samples such as powdered rice, starch, seaweed (agar), and supplements. The detection limit of heavy metals of Cr in powdered mineral supplement was approximately 0.55 mg/kg.
21401033	A computational investigation of HCN → HNC isomerization in the electronic ground state by one- and few-cycle infrared pulses is presented. Starting from a vibrationally pre-excited reagent state, isomerization yields of more than 50% are obtained using single one- to five-cycle pulses. The principal mechanism includes two steps of population transfer by dipole-resonance (DR), and hence, the success of the method is closely linked to the polarity of the system and, in particular, the stepwise change of the dipole moment from reactant to transition state and on to products. The yield drops massively if the diagonal dipole matrix elements are artificially set to zero. In detail, the mechanism includes DR-induced preparation of a delocalized vibrational wavepacket, which traverses the barrier region and is finally trapped in the product well by DR-dominated de-excitation. The excitation and de-excitation steps are triggered by pulse lobes of opposite field direction. As the number of optical cycles is increased, the leading field lobes prepare a vibrational superposition state by off-resonant ladder climbing, which is then subjected to the three steps of the principal isomerization mechanism. DR excitation is more efficient from a preformed vibrational wavepacket than from a molecular eigenstate. The entire process can be loosely described as Tannor-Kosloff-Rice type transfer mechanism on a single potential surface effected by a single pulse, individual field lobes assuming the roles of pump- and dump-pulses. Pre-excitation to a transient wavepacket can be enhanced by applying a separate, comparatively weak few-cycle prepulse, in which the prepulse prepares a vibrational wavepacket. The two-pulse setup corresponds to a double Tannor-Kosloff-Rice control scheme on a single potential surface.
21401516	Fibrinogen is a provisional matrix protein of the coagulation system that following proteolytic cleavage by the protease thrombin polymerizes to form fibrin, the structural basis of the blood clot. Fibrin polymer formation at sites of vessel injury is critical to normal hemostasis. However, fibrin deposition within damaged tissues is also a common pathological feature of inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis. Fibrin deposition has been readily detected along articular surfaces, within inflamed hyperplastic synovial tissue, and as a component of insoluble "rice bodies" within the synovial fluid of arthritic joints. Recent data has suggested that fibrin deposition within inflamed tissues is not simply a reflection of a disease process but rather actively contributes to disease pathogenesis. One mechanism that has been demonstrated to directly link fibrin(ogen) to the regulation of inflammation is the ability of fibrin(ogen) to serve as a ligand for cell-surface receptors, particularly integrins. Indeed, engagement of fibrin(ogen) by the leukocyte integrin receptor αMβ2 appears to be a common and fundamental event driving local inflammation. Recent studies have demonstrated that eliminating fibrin(ogen)-αMβ2 interactions can significantly limit the progression of multiple inflammatory diseases, including arthritis, without compromising the ability of fibrinogen to function in coagulation. These exciting findings have opened the door to new opportunities for targeting fibrinogen as an inflammatory mediator while leaving intact its hemostatic properties.
21401973	The 'paddy paradox', the occurrence of large populations of vectors but low amounts of malaria transmission where irrigated rice is grown, was investigated in a village in Ghana where M form Anopheles gambiae are common. Peridomestic and indoor host-seeking mosquitoes were collected in tent traps and light traps over 21 consecutive nights at the start of the rainy season in June 2009 when the population increased exponentially from less than 100 per night to over 1000. Infection rates in the overall mosquito population were 0.3% and in the estimated parous population were 1.9%. Numbers of An. gambiae in the tent trap peaked between midnight and 02:40 am. The majority of insects were taking their first blood meal, as virgins or shortly after mating. More than expected were collected in the light trap during a rainstorm at the start of the rains but overall numbers were not affected. Fewer than expected were collected after a subsequent storm. Recruitment to the adult population decreased over the following days. It is hypothesised that the 'paddy paradox' is due to young pre-gravid insects dispersing more widely than gravid ones, not necessarily to low survival in the mosquito.
21402917	Phytoalexins constitute a broad category of pathogen- and insect-inducible biochemicals that locally protect plant tissues. Because of their agronomic significance, maize and rice have been extensively investigated for their terpenoid-based defenses, which include insect-inducible monoterpene and sesquiterpene volatiles. Rice also produces a complex array of pathogen-inducible diterpenoid phytoalexins. Despite the demonstration of fungal-induced ent-kaur-15-ene production in maize over 30 y ago, the identity of functionally analogous maize diterpenoid phytoalexins has remained elusive. In response to stem attack by the European corn borer (Ostrinia nubilalis) and fungi, we observed the induced accumulation of six ent-kaurane-related diterpenoids, collectively termed kauralexins. Isolation and identification of the predominant Rhizopus microsporus-induced metabolites revealed ent-kaur-19-al-17-oic acid and the unique analog ent-kaur-15-en-19-al-17-oic acid, assigned as kauralexins A3 and B3, respectively. Encoding an ent-copalyl diphosphate synthase, fungal-induced An2 transcript accumulation precedes highly localized kauralexin production, which can eventually exceed 100 μg · g(-1) fresh weight. Pharmacological applications of jasmonic acid and ethylene also synergize the induced accumulation of kauralexins. Occurring at elevated levels in the scutella of all inbred lines examined, kauralexins appear ubiquitous in maize. At concentrations as low as 10 μg · mL(-1), kauralexin B3 significantly inhibited the growth of the opportunistic necrotroph R. microsporus and the causal agent of anthracnose stalk rot, Colletotrichum graminicola. Kauralexins also exhibited significant O. nubilalis antifeedant activity. Our work establishes the presence of diterpenoid defenses in maize and enables a more detailed analysis of their biosynthetic pathways, regulation, and crop defense function.
21404445	Highly negatively charged heteropolyacids (HPAs), in particular H(5) BW(12) O(40) , efficiently promoted saccharification of crystalline cellulose into water-soluble saccharides in concentrated aqueous solutions (e.g., 82 % total yield and 77 % glucose yield, based on cellulose with a 0.7 M H(5) BW(12) O(40) solution); the performance was much better than those of previously reported systems with commonly utilized mineral acids (e.g., H(2) SO(4) and HCl) and HPAs (e.g., H(3) PW(12) O(40) and H(4) SiW(12) O(40)). Besides crystalline cellulose, the present system was applicable to the selective transformation of cellobiose, starch, and xylan to the corresponding monosaccharides such as glucose and xylose. In addition, one-pot synthesis of levulinic acid and sorbitol directly from cellulose was realized by using concentrated HPA solutions. The present system, concentrated aqueous solutions of highly negatively charged HPAs, was further applicable to saccharification of natural (non-purified) lignocellulose biomass, such as "rice plant straw", "oil palm empty fruit bunch (palm EFB) fiber", and "Japanese cedar sawdust", giving a mixture of the corresponding water-soluble saccharides, such as glucose (main product), galactose, mannose, xylose, arabinose, and cellobiose, in high yields (≥77 % total yields of saccharides based on holocellulose). Separation of the saccharides and H(5) BW(12) O(40) was easy, and the retrieved H(5) BW(12) O(40) could repeatedly be used without appreciable loss of the high performance.
21404662	Most previous studies attributed variation in N2O emission from paddy fields to water managements and fertilizer input. In this study, we compiled a database of N2O emission from paddy fields in Asia, including water management, type and amount of nitrogen fertilizer, soil property, climate and rice types. After screening the influencing factors with statistical significance (p < 0.01) such as different water managements, N input, different organic N types, interaction of soil total nitrogen content and different pH levels, different annual temperature levels, and different rice types, a linear model was established to link N2O emission to those factors, which could totally explain up to 60.7% of the observed variation in N2O emission. The most important influencing factor was the amount of N fertilizer input, which had significantly positive correlation with N2O fluxes. Relative emission fluxes of continuous flooding, intermittent irrigation and wet irrigation were 0.17:0.56: 1. The soil total nitrogen content had significantly positive effect on N2O fluxes while the optimum pH for N2O emission was pH > 8. Straw of N-fixing crop had much higher fluxes than other organic fertilizers while manure had no significant effects on increasing N2O emission. Application of other crop straws actually reduced N2O emission by 36%, as compared with fields without organic N input. The relative fluxes for early rice and later rice were 71% and 48% of that for single rice, respectively. Inclusion of more influencing factors such as soil property, climate and rice type helped explaining more of the variations in the observed N2O emission from paddy fields.
21404695	The biodiversity of a mesophilic microbial community BYND-8 capable of degrading lignocellulose at 30 degrees C was detected using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and the isolation of pure cultures, and the effect of the liquid of rice straw degradation by BYND-8 on biogas production was measured. Six bacterial strains were isolated using peptone cellulose solution medium, and the highest similarities of their 16S rDNA gene sequences to Serratia sp. PSGB 13, S. marcescens strain UFLA-25LS, S. marcescens strain DAP33, Alcaligenes sp. YcX-20, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia strain C6, Bacillus cereus isolate BRL02-71 were 99%, 100%, 96%, 100%, 100% and 99%, respectively. In addition, one band was detected besides six bands of cultured isolates on the DGGE gel, and it showed 100% sequence similarity to uncultured bacterium clone ATB-KS-1446. The cumulative biogas and methane productions of biogas fermentation system added with the liquid of rice straw degraded by BYND-8 were 13 167 mL and 7 248 mL, 44.5% and 95.3% higher than those of the control, respectively, in the early 15 days of fermentation. The results showed that the biodiversity of microbial community BYND-8 was very high, and the time of producing biogas was put forward and biogas production was increased with application of microbial community for rice straw pretreatment during the biogas fermentation.
21404700	Solution culture experiments were carried out to study the uptake and translocation of selenate (Na2SeO4) or selenite (Na2SeO3) by wheat and rice seedlings. When supplied with Na2SeO4 in nutrient solution, the concentrations of selenium (Se) in normal shoots and roots of rice were 30.3 mg x kg(-1) and 39.0 mg x kg(-1) respectively, and the absorbed Se was quickly translocated to shoots accounting for 80% of the total uptake. Se concentrations in wheat shoots and roots were 1.76 mg x kg(-1) and 6.99 mg x kg(-1) respectively, accounting for 62% in shoots. However, when supplied with Na2SeO3, Se concentrations in shoots and roots of rice were 4.40 mg x kg(-1) and 230 mg x kg(-1) respectively, 1.24 mg x kg(-1) and 88.3 mg x kg(-1) in shoots and roots of wheat respectively, and only 8.2% was transferred to shoots. The influence of phosphorus (P) starvation on Se uptake was different for rice and wheat seedlings. Comparing to normal plants, the Se concentrations in the shoots and roots of rice under P starvation condition were decreased, however increased for wheat. In Na2SeO3 uptake kinetics, K(m) of wheat seedlings was 8.7 folds of that of rice, and the affinity of wheat root to selenite was much weaker than that of rice. The Se uptake rate of wheat (V(max)) was 14% lower than that of rice. The uptake and translocation mechanisms of selenate and selenite by rice and wheat seedlings were revealed. And the results demonstrate that the absorbed selenate is quickly translocated to shoot and selenite is mainly accumulated in root. These results provide basic information for biofortification of crops with Se.
21406116	Rice is highly sensitive to drought, and the effect of drought may vary with the different genotypes and development stages. Genome-wide gene expression profiling was used as the initial point to dissect molecular genetic mechanism of this complex trait and provide valuable information for the improvement of drought tolerance in rice. Affymetrix rice genome array containing 48,564 japonica and 1,260 indica sequences was used to analyze the gene expression pattern of rice exposed to drought stress. The transcriptome from leaf, root, and young panicle at three developmental stages was comparatively analyzed combined with bioinformatics exploring drought stress related cis-elements. There were 5,284 genes detected to be differentially expressed under drought stress. Most of these genes were tissue- or stage-specific regulated by drought. The tissue-specific down-regulated genes showed distinct function categories as photosynthesis-related genes prevalent in leaf, and the genes involved in cell membrane biogenesis and cell wall modification over-presented in root and young panicle. In a drought environment, several genes, such as GA2ox, SAP15, and Chitinase III, were regulated in a reciprocal way in two tissues at the same development stage. A total of 261 transcription factor genes were detected to be differentially regulated by drought stress. Most of them were also regulated in a tissue- or stage-specific manner. A cis-element containing special CGCG box was identified to over-present in the upstream of 55 common induced genes, and it may be very important for rice plants responding to drought environment. Genome-wide gene expression profiling revealed that most of the drought differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were under temporal and spatial regulation, suggesting a crosstalk between various development cues and environmental stimuli. The identification of the differentially regulated DEGs, including TF genes and unique candidate cis-element for drought responsiveness, is a very useful resource for the functional dissection of the molecular mechanism in rice responding to environment stress.
21406243	In this study, we report an inventory of the K(+) uptake systems in 62 fungal species for which the complete genome sequences are available. This inventory reveals that three types of K(+) uptake systems, TRK and HAK transporters and ACU ATPases, are widely present in several combinations across fungal species. PAT ATPases are less frequently present and are exceptional in Ascomycota. The genome of Magnaporthe oryzae contains four TRK, one HAK, and two ACU genes. The study of the expression of these genes at high K(+), K(+) starvation, and in infected rice leaves revealed that the expression of four genes, ACU1, ACU2, HAK1, and TRK1 is much lower than that of TRK2, TRK3, and TRK4, except under K(+) starvation. The two ACU ATPases were cloned and functionally identified as high-affinity K(+) or Na(+) uptake systems. These two ATPases endow Saccharomyces cerevisiae with the capacity to grow for several generations in low Na(+) concentrations when K(+) was absent, which produces a dramatic increase of cellular Na(+)/K(+) ratio.
21407816	Plant diurnal oscillation is a 24-hour period based variation. The correlation between diurnal genes and biological pathways was widely revealed by microarray analysis in different species. Rice (Oryza sativa) is the major food staple for about half of the world's population. The rice flag leaf is essential in providing photosynthates to the grain filling. However, there is still no comprehensive view about the diurnal transcriptome for rice leaves. In this study, we applied rice microarray to monitor the rhythmically expressed genes in rice seedling and flag leaves. We developed a new computational analysis approach and identified 6,266 (10.96%) diurnal probe sets in seedling leaves, 13,773 (24.08%) diurnal probe sets in flag leaves. About 65% of overall transcription factors were identified as flag leaf preferred. In seedling leaves, the peak of phase distribution was from 2:00am to 4:00am, whereas in flag leaves, the peak was from 8:00pm to 2:00am. The diurnal phase distribution analysis of gene ontology (GO) and cis-element enrichment indicated that, some important processes were waken by the light, such as photosynthesis and abiotic stimulus, while some genes related to the nuclear and ribosome involved processes were active mostly during the switch time of light to dark. The starch and sucrose metabolism pathway genes also showed diurnal phase. We conducted comparison analysis between Arabidopsis and rice leaf transcriptome throughout the diurnal cycle. In summary, our analysis approach is feasible for relatively unbiased identification of diurnal transcripts, efficiently detecting some special periodic patterns with non-sinusoidal periodic patterns. Compared to the rice flag leaves, the gene transcription levels of seedling leaves were relatively limited to the diurnal rhythm. Our comprehensive microarray analysis of seedling and flag leaves of rice provided an overview of the rice diurnal transcriptome and indicated some diurnal regulated biological processes and key functional pathways in rice.
21408199	LRR-kinases constitute the largest subfamily of receptor-like kinases in plants and regulate a wide variety of processes related to development and defense. Through a reiterative process of sequence analysis and re-annotation, we identified 309 LRR-kinase genes in the rice genome (Nipponbare). Among them, 127 genes in the Rice Annotation Project Database and 85 in Refseq of NCBI were amended (in addition, 62 LRR-kinase genes were not annotated in Refseq). The complete set of LRR-kinases was characterized. These LRR-kinases were classified into five groups according to phylogenetic analysis, and the genes in groups 1, 2, 3 and 4 usually have fewer introns than those in group 5. The introns in the LRR domain, which are highly conserved in regards to their positions and configurations, split the first Leu or other amino residues at this position of the 'xxLxLxx' motif with phase 2 and usually separate one or more LRR repeats exactly. Tandemly repeated LRR motifs have evolved from exon duplication, mutation and exon shuffling. The extensive distribution and diversity of the LRR-kinase genes have been mainly generated by tandem duplication and mutation after whole genome duplication. Positive selection has made a limited contribution to the sequence diversity after duplication, but positively selected sites located in the LRR domain are thought to involve in the protein-protein interaction.
21408202	Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1 was first encountered in 1996 in Guangdong province (China) and started spreading throughout Asia and the western Palearctic in 2004-2006. Compared to several other countries where the HPAI H5N1 distribution has been studied in some detail, little is known about the environmental correlates of the HPAI H5N1 distribution in China. HPAI H5N1 clinical disease outbreaks, and HPAI virus (HPAIV) H5N1 isolated from active risk-based surveillance sampling of domestic poultry (referred to as HPAIV H5N1 surveillance positives in this manuscript) were modeled separately using seven risk variables: chicken, domestic waterfowl population density, proportion of land covered by rice or surface water, cropping intensity, elevation, and human population density. We used bootstrapped logistic regression and boosted regression trees (BRT) with cross-validation to identify the weight of each variable, to assess the predictive power of the models, and to map the distribution of HPAI H5N1 risk. HPAI H5N1 clinical disease outbreak occurrence in domestic poultry was mainly associated with chicken density, human population density, and elevation. In contrast, HPAIV H5N1 infection identified by risk-based surveillance was associated with domestic waterfowl density, human population density, and the proportion of land covered by surface water. Both models had a high explanatory power (mean AUC ranging from 0.864 to 0.967). The map of HPAIV H5N1 risk distribution based on active surveillance data emphasized areas south of the Yangtze River, while the distribution of reported outbreak risk extended further North, where the density of poultry and humans is higher. We quantified the statistical association between HPAI H5N1 outbreak, HPAIV distribution and post-vaccination levels of seropositivity (percentage of effective post-vaccination seroconversion in vaccinated birds) and found that provinces with either outbreaks or HPAIV H5N1 surveillance positives in 2007-2009 appeared to have had lower antibody response to vaccination. The distribution of HPAI H5N1 risk in China appears more limited geographically than previously assessed, offering prospects for better targeted surveillance and control interventions.
21408609	Antisense and RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated gene silencing systems are powerful reverse genetic methods for studying gene function. Most RNAi and antisense experiments used constitutive promoters to drive the expression of RNAi/antisense transgenes; however, several reports showed that constitutive promoters were not expressed in all cell types in cereal plants, suggesting that the constitutive promoter systems are not effective for silencing gene expression in certain tissues/organs. To develop an alternative method that complements the constitutive promoter systems, we constructed RNAi and/or antisense transgenes for four rice genes using a constitutive promoter or a cognate promoter of a selected rice target gene and generated many independent transgenic lines. Genetic, molecular, and phenotypic analyses of these RNAi/antisense transgenic rice plants, in comparison to previously-reported transgenic lines that silenced similar genes, revealed that expression of the cognate promoter-driven RNAi/antisense transgenes resulted in novel growth/developmental defects that were not observed in transgenic lines expressing constitutive promoter-driven gene-silencing transgenes of the same target genes. Our results strongly suggested that expression of RNAi/antisense transgenes by cognate promoters of target genes is a better gene-silencing approach to discovery gene function in rice.
21409497	The endosperm of cereal grains is an important resource for both food and feed. It contains three major types of tissue: starchy endosperm, the aleurone layer, and transfer cells. To improve grain quality and quantity using molecular methods, control of transgene expression directed by distinct temporal and spatial promoter activity is necessary. To identify aleurone layer-specific and/or transfer cell-specific promoters in rice, microarray analyses were performed, comparing the aleurone layer containing transfer cells and the other reproductive and vegetative tissues. After confirmation by RT-PCR analysis, we identified two putative aleurone layer and/or transfer cell-specific genes, AL1 and AL2. The promoter regions of these genes and β-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion constructs were stably transformed into rice. The GUS expression patterns indicated that the AL1 promoter was active exclusively in the dorsal aleurone layer adjacent to the main vascular bundle. In rice, transfer cells are differentiated in this region. Therefore, the promoter of the AL1 gene exhibits transfer cell-containing region-specific activity. The AL1 gene encodes a putative anthranilate N-hydroxycinnamoyl/benzoyltransferase. The promoter of this gene will be useful for enhancing uptake of nutrients from the mother cells and protecting filial seeds from pathogen attack.
21409632	A prerequisite for physical mapping by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) is the saturation of a given genome or chromosomal region with single copy markers. One possible way to achieve this goal is by construction of a saturated restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) map. Although RFLP maps are now available for many plant species, only a few systems provide the high density of markers (at least one marker every 1000 kb) required for long-range physical mapping using PFGE. At present, only four plant systems, Arubidofm (1,2), tomato (3), potato (4,5), and rice (6), have a sufftcient density of markers. These species are characterized by relatively small genomes when compared to other plants, with an average distance between individual RFLP markers of 400-800 kb. PFGE in combination with the digestion of DNA, using rare-cutting restriction enzymes, is able to bridge these gaps, and will allow the construction of long-range physical maps for regions of these plant genomes (7). PFGE has already been used in a number of species to construct long-range restriction maps of a number of gene families and repeated DNA sequences (8-12).
21410288	Lactostatin is a novel pentapeptide (IIAEK) derived from bovine milk β-lactoglobulin with greater hypocholesterolemic activity than β-sitosterol, the drug commonly used to treat hypercholesterolemia. We developed transgenic rice expressing lactostatin as a fusion protein with seed storage protein (SSP) glutelins under the control of three different endosperm-specific promoters. Lactostatin accumulated in transgenic rice seed at approximately 1.6 mg/g seeds (dry seeds) without any apparent influence on seed traits such as endogenous SSP expression levels or alterations in the intracellular structures of endosperm cells. Short-term (three day) oral administration of the glutelin fraction containing lactostatin (namely three times of 300 mg/kg body weight/day) extracted from transgenic rice seeds resulted in hypocholesterolemic activity in rats; namely, the serum low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level was significantly reduced accompanied by a significant increase in beneficial serum high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol.
21410466	A dwarfing gene (allele) sd1-d has been intensively utilized to develop short-culm indica varieties in southeast Asia up to now. Before the first sd1-d-carrying variety IR8 was released, rice researchers had recognized the general tendency that culm length is higher in indica varieties than in temperate-japonica ones. Inter-subspecific difference of the tall (wild-type) allele SD1 at the sd1 locus was examined on the common genetic background, using five isogenic lines developed by substituting sd1-d of the recurrent parent IR36 by SD1s of two indica varieties, two temperate-japonica varieties and one tropical-japonica variety. The two indica -donor isogenic lines had longer culms than the three japonica-donor isogenic lines consistently in two different environmental conditions. Moreover, nonsynonymous single-nucleotide polymorphism between the two subspecies was detected at two sites in Exon 1 and Exon 3 of the sd1 locus. It is demonstrated that the inter-subspecific differentiation of SD1 contributes height difference between indica and japonica. The indica-originating and japonica-originating alleles at the sd1 locus were designated as SD1-in(t) and SD1-ja(t), respectively.
21410511	hrp genes encode components of a type III secretion (T3S) system and play crucial roles in the pathogenicity of the rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). A histone-like nucleoid-structuring (H-NS) protein binds DNA and acts as a global transcriptional repressor. Here, we investigated the involvement of an h-ns-like gene, named xrvB, in the expression of hrp genes in Xoo. Under the hrp-inducing culture condition, the expression of a key hrp regulator HrpG increased in the XrvB mutant, followed by activation of the downstream gene expression. Also, in planta, the secretion of a T3S protein (XopR) was activated by the mutation in xrvB. Gel retardation assay indicated that XrvB has DNA-binding activity, but without a preference for the promoter region of hrpG. The results suggest that XrvB negatively regulates hrp gene expression and that an unknown factor(s) mediates the regulation of hrpG expression by XrvB.
21410711	Tropospheric ozone (O₃) is a phytotoxic air pollutant whose current background concentrations in parts of East Asia have caused estimated rice yield losses of up to 20%; currently, however, little is known about the mechanisms of O₃ tolerance in rice. We previously identified a quantitative trait locus (QTL) in rice called OzT8, which was associated with relative dry weight under ozone stress. The photosynthetic response in SL46, a Nipponbare (NB)-Kasalath chromosome segment substitution line (SL) containing the OzT8 locus, was compared to the parent NB in multiple ozone fumigation experiments (100 ppb, 8 h d⁻¹, 23 d). By day 23, SL46 showed significantly less reduction of photosynthetic capacity compared to NB; the maximum carboxylation rate of ribulose 1·5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) decreased by 24% in SL46 compared to 49% in NB, and the maximum electron transport rate decreased by 16 and 39%, respectively. The midday carbon assimilation rates also showed a similar trend, but there was no genotypic difference in stomatal conductance. These results indicate that the OzT8 locus confers ozone tolerance via biochemical acclimation, not avoidance, making it a potentially valuable target for breeding of ozone tolerance into future rice lines. The sequence of photosynthetic response of rice to ozone stress and related tolerance factors are also discussed.
21411180	Nilaparvata lugens Stål, the brown planthopper (BPH), is one of the most destructive phloem-feeding insects of rice (Oryza sativa L.) throughout Asia. Here, we show that BPH feeding increases the level of endogenous nitric oxide (NO) in the leaf and sheath tissue of both resistant and susceptible rice cultivars. However, in the roots, the NO level increased in the resistant cultivar, but decreased in the susceptible one. A burst of NO production occurred in the sheath within 1 h of infestation with BPH. The production of NO in response to BPH feeding appears to be dependent primarily on the activity of nitric oxide synthase. The application of exogenous NO reduced plant water loss by its effect on both stomatal opening and root architecture. It also stimulated the expression of certain drought stress-related genes, reduced plant height and delayed leaf senescence. Over the short term, NO supplementation reduced the seedling mortality caused by BPH feeding. This suggests that NO signaling plays a role in the rice tolerance response to BPH feeding.
21411196	Cadmium (Cd) uptake and tolerance were investigated among 20 rice cultivars based on a field experiment (1.2 mg Cd kg⁻¹ in soil) and a soil pot trial (control, 100 mg Cd kg⁻¹), and rates of radial oxygen loss (ROL) were measured under a deoxygenated solution. Significant differences were found among the cultivars in: (1) brown rice Cd concentrations (0.11-0.29 mg kg⁻¹) in a field soil, (2) grain Cd tolerance (34-113%) and concentrations (2.1-6.5 mg kg⁻¹) in a pot trial, and (3) rates of ROL (15-31 mmol O₂ kg⁻¹ root d.w. h⁻¹). Target hazard quotients were calculated for the field experiment to assess potential Cd risk. Significant negative relationships were found between rates of ROL and concentrations of Cd in brown rice or straw under field and greenhouse conditions, indicating that rice cultivars with higher rates of ROL had higher capacities for limiting the transfer of Cd to rice and straw.
21412363	Plants are non-mobile organisms and have to adapt to environmental stresses mostly by modulating their growth and development in addition to physiological and biochemical changes. Transcription factors (TFs) regulate genome expression in response to environmental and physiological signals, and some of them switch on plant adaptive developmental and physiological pathways. One TF is encoded by a single gene but regulates the expression of several other genes leading to the activation of complex adaptive mechanisms and hence represents major molecular targets to genetically improve the tolerance of crop plants against different stresses. In this review an updated account of the discovery of TFs involved in biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in the model monocotyledonous plant, rice (Oryza sativa L.) is presented. We illustrate how the elucidation of the function of these TFs can be used to set up genetic engineering strategies and to rationalize molecular breeding using molecular assisted selection towards enhancement of rice tolerance to various stresses. Attempts have also been made to provide information on the molecular mechanisms involved in stress resistance or tolerance processes. We discuss how the comparison of the action of TFs isolated from the dicotyledonous model plant Arabidopsis thaliana in rice and vice versa can contribute to determine whether common or divergent mechanisms underlie stress tolerance in the two plant species. Lastly, we discuss the necessity to discover TFs controlling specifically the root adaptive development which constitutes a major way for the plant to escape to several stresses such as water deficit or mineral nutrient deficiency.
21414014	Root hydraulic conductivity (Lp(r)) and aquaporin amounts change diurnally. Previously, these changes were considered to be spontaneously driven by a circadian rhythm. Here, we evaluated the new hypothesis that diurnal changes could be triggered and enhanced by transpirational demand from shoots. When rice plants were grown under a 12h light/12h dark regime, Lp(r) was low in the dark and high in the light period. Root aquaporin mRNA levels also changed diurnally, but the amplitudes differed among aquaporin isoforms. Aquaporins, such as OsPIP2;1, showed moderate changes, whereas root-specific aquaporins, such as OsPIP2;5, showed temporal and dramatic induction around 2h after light initiation. When darkness was extended for 12h after the usual dark period, no such induction was observed. Furthermore, plants under 100% relative humidity (RH) showed no induction even in the presence of light. These results suggest that transpirational demand triggers a dramatic increase in gene expressions such as OsPIP2;5. Immunocytochemistry showed that OsPIP2;5 accumulated on the proximal end of the endodermis and of the cell surface around xylem. The strong induction by transpirational demand and the polar localization suggest that OsPIP2;5 contributes to fine adjustment of radial water transport in roots to sustain high Lp(r) during the day.
21414017	It has been shown that rice roots grown in a stagnant medium develop a tight barrier to radial oxygen loss (ROL), whereas aerated roots do not. This study investigated whether the induction of a barrier to ROL affects water and solute permeabilities. Growth in stagnant medium markedly reduced the root growth rate relative to aerated conditions. Histochemical studies revealed an early deposition of Casparian bands (CBs) and suberin lamellae (SL) in both the endodermis (EN) and exodermis, and accelerated lignification of stagnant roots. The absolute amounts of suberin, lignin and esterified aromatics (coumaric and ferulic acid) in these barriers were significantly higher in stagnant roots. However, correlative permeability studies revealed that early deposition of barriers in stagnant roots failed to reduce hydraulic conductivity (Lp(r)) below those of aerated roots. In contrast to Lp(r) , the NaCl permeability (P(sr)) of stagnant roots was markedly lower than that of aerated roots, as indicated by an increased reflection coefficient (σ(sr)). In stagnant roots, P(sr) decreased by 60%, while σ(sr) increased by 55%. The stagnant medium differentially affected the Lp(r) and P(sr) of roots, which can be explained in terms of the physical properties of the molecules used and the size of the pores in the apoplast.
21414237	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a new class of endogenous small RNAs that play essential regulatory roles in plant growth, development and stress response. Extensive studies of miRNAs have been performed in model plants such as rice, Arabidopsis thaliana and other plants. However, the number of miRNAs discovered in maize is relatively low and little is known about miRNAs involved in the very early stage during seed germination. In this study, a small RNA library from maize seed 24 hours after imbibition was sequenced by the Solexa technology. A total of 11,338,273 reads were obtained. 1,047,447 total reads representing 431 unique sRNAs matched to known maize miRNAs. Further analysis confirmed the authenticity of 115 known miRNAs belonging to 24 miRNA families and the discovery of 167 novel miRNAs in maize. Both the known and the novel miRNAs were confirmed by sequencing of a second small RNA library constructed the same way as the one used in the first sequencing. We also found 10 miRNAs that had not been reported in maize, but had been reported in other plant species. All novel sequences had not been earlier described in other plant species. In addition, seven miRNA* sequences were also obtained. Putative targets for 106 novel miRNAs were successfully predicted. Our results indicated that miRNA-mediated gene expression regulation is present in maize imbibed seed. This study led to the confirmation of the authenticity of 115 known miRNAs and the discovery of 167 novel miRNAs in maize. Identification of novel miRNAs resulted in significant enrichment of the repertoire of maize miRNAs and provided insights into miRNA regulation of genes expressed in imbibed seed.
21414720	The objective of this study was to develop consortium using Pseudomonas sp. SUK1 and Aspergillus ochraceus NCIM-1146 to decolorize adsorbed dyes from textile effluent wastewater under solid state fermentation. Among various agricultural wastes rice bran showed dye adsorption up to 90, 62 and 80% from textile dye reactive navy blue HE2R (RNB HE2R) solution, mixture of textile dyes and textile industry wastewater, respectively. Pseudomonas sp. SUK1 and A. ochraceus NCIM-1146 showed 62 and 38% decolorization of RNB HE2R adsorbed on rice bran in 24h under solid state fermentation. However, the consortium of Pseudomonas sp. SUK1 and A. ochraceus NCIM-1146 (consortium-PA) showed 80% decolorization in 24h. The consortium-PA showed effective ADMI removal ratio of adsorbed dyes from textile industry wastewater (77%), mixture of textile dyes (82%) and chemical precipitate of textile dye effluent (CPTDE) (86%). Secretion of extracellular enzymes such as laccase, azoreductase, tyrosinase and NADH-DCIP reductase and their significant induction in the presence of adsorbed dye suggests their role in the decolorization of RNB HE2R. GCMS and HPLC analysis of product suggests the different fates of biodegradation of RNB HE2R when used Pseudomonas sp. SUK1, A. ochraceus NCIM-1146 and consortium PA.
21414773	Two composting piles were prepared by adding to a mixture of rice straw, vegetables and bran: (i) raw soil free from pentachlorophenol (PCP) contamination (pile A) and (ii) PCP-contaminated soil (pile B). It was shown by the results that compost maturity characterized by water soluble carbon (WSC), TOC/TN ratio, germination index (GI) and dehydrogenase activity (DA) was significantly affected by PCP exposure, which resulted in an inferior degree of maturity for pile B. DGGE analysis revealed an inhibited effect of PCP on compost microbial abundance. The bacteria community shifts were mainly consistent with composting factors such as temperature, pH, moisture content and substrates. By contrast, the fungal communities were more sensitive to PCP contamination due to the significant correlation between fungal community shifts and PCP removal. Therefore, the different microbial community compositions for properly evaluating the degree of maturity and PCP contamination were suggested.
21414775	Lipid accumulation abilities of two endophytic fungal isolates - Colletotrichum sp. and Alternaria sp. grown under optimum and nutrient-stress conditions were investigated and compared. Significant variations in lipid contents, ranging from 30% to 58% of their dry biomass were found in liquid culture using various carbon sources. Since, >50% of the total lipid was estimated to be neutral lipid for both the fungal species, predicted biodiesel properties were theoretically calculated based upon the determined fatty acid profiles; and the values were found to be comparable to those of commonly used plant oils for biodiesel production. The two endophytes grew successfully on the combined rice straw and wheat bran as substrate that was degraded by their secretory enzymes including cellulase [1.21-2.51 FPU/g dry substrate (gds)] in solid state fermentation and produced substantial amount of lipid (60.32-84.30 mg/gds). Our study highlights the potential utilities of these two novel endophytic fungi as biodiesel feedstock.
21415278	Full-length cDNA (FLcDNA) libraries consisting of 172,000 clones were constructed from a two-row malting barley cultivar (Hordeum vulgare 'Haruna Nijo') under normal and stressed conditions. After sequencing the clones from both ends and clustering the sequences, a total of 24,783 complete sequences were produced. By removing duplicates between these and publicly available sequences, 22,651 representative sequences were obtained: 17,773 were novel barley FLcDNAs, and 1,699 were barley specific. Highly conserved genes were found in the barley FLcDNA sequences for 721 of 881 rice (Oryza sativa) trait genes with 50% or greater identity. These FLcDNA resources from our Haruna Nijo cDNA libraries and the full-length sequences of representative clones will improve our understanding of the biological functions of genes in barley, which is the cereal crop with the fourth highest production in the world, and will provide a powerful tool for annotating the barley genome sequences that will become available in the near future.
21416255	Floral transition is a critical and strictly regulated developmental process in plants. Mutations in Arabidopsis LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN 1 (AtLHP1)/TERMINAL FLOWER 2 (TFL2) result in early and terminal flowers. Little is known about the gene expression, function and evolution of plant LHP1 homologs, except for Arabidopsis LHP1. In this study, the conservation and divergence of plant LHP1 protein sequences was analyzed by sequence alignments and phylogeny. LHP1 expression patterns were compared among taxa that occupy pivotal phylogenetic positions. Several relatively conserved new motifs/regions were identified among LHP1 homologs. Phylogeny of plant LHP1 proteins agreed with established angiosperm relationships. In situ hybridization unveiled conserved expression of plant LHP1 in the axillary bud/tiller, vascular bundles, developing stamens, and carpels. Unlike AtLHP1, cucumber CsLHP1-2, sugarcane SoLHP1 and maize ZmLHP1, rice OsLHP1 is not expressed in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) and the OsLHP1 transcript level is consistently low in shoots. "Unequal crossover" might have contributed to the divergence in the N-terminal and hinge region lengths of LHP1 homologs. We propose an "insertion-deletion" model for soybean (Glycine max L.) GmLHP1s evolution. Plant LHP1 homologs are more conserved than previously expected, and may favor vegetative meristem identity and primordia formation. OsLHP1 may not function in rice SAM during floral induction.
21416328	Hyperspectral reflectance (350-2500 nm) measurements were made over two experimental rice fields containing two cultivars treated with three levels of nitrogen application. Four different transformations of the reflectance data were analyzed for their capability to predict rice biophysical parameters, comprising leaf area index (LAI; m(2) green leaf area m(-2) soil) and green leaf chlorophyll density (GLCD; mg chlorophyll m(-2) soil), using stepwise multiple regression (SMR) models and support vector machines (SVMs). Four transformations of the rice canopy data were made, comprising reflectances (R), first-order derivative reflectances (D1), second-order derivative reflectances (D2), and logarithm transformation of reflectances (LOG). The polynomial kernel (POLY) of the SVM using R was the best model to predict rice LAI, with a root mean square error (RMSE) of 1.0496 LAI units. The analysis of variance kernel of SVM using LOG was the best model to predict rice GLCD, with an RMSE of 523.0741 mg m(-2). The SVM approach was not only superior to SMR models for predicting the rice biophysical parameters, but also provided a useful exploratory and predictive tool for analyzing different transformations of reflectance data.
21417220	Dietary phytic acid is a major causative factor for low Zn bioavailability in many cereal- and legume-based diets. The bioavailability of Zn in seed of low phytic acid (lpa) variants of maize (Zea mays L.), rice (Oryza sativa L.), and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) was evaluated using a suckling rat pup model. Suckling rat pups (14 days old, n = 6-8/treatment) were fasted for 6 h and intubated with (65)Zn-radiolabeled suspensions prepared using seed produced by either wild-type (normal phytic acid) or lpa genotypes of each cereal. Test solutions were radiolabeled overnight (all genotypes) or immediately prior to intubation (barley genotypes). Pups were killed 6 h postintubation and tissues removed and counted in a gamma counter. Zn absorption was low from wild-type genotypes of maize (21, 33%) and rice (26%), and phytic acid reduction resulted in significantly higher Zn absorption, 47-52 and 35-52%, respectively. Zn absorption from wild-type barley incubated overnight was high (86-91%), and phytate reduction did not improve Zn absorption (84-90%), which is likely due to endogenous phytase activity. When the wild-type barley solutions were prepared immediately before intubation, Zn absorption was significantly lower (63, 78%) than from the lpa cultivars (92, 96%). Variation in seed or flour phenolic acid levels did not affect Zn absorption. Differences in seed Zn levels did not substantially affect Zn absorption. Thus, when phytic acid is abundant in a diet, it has a larger effect on Zn absorption than the level of Zn. Therefore, reducing the phytic acid content of staple cereal grains may contribute to enhancing Zn nutrition of populations consuming these staple foods.
21417300	A systematic theoretical study has been performed on the low pressure thermal decomposition pathways of t-BuS(O)St-Bu using the CCSD(T)/cc-pV(D+d)Z//B3LYP/6-311++G(2d,2p), CCSD(T)/cc-pV(D+d)Z//PBEPBE/6-311++G(2d,2p), and G3B3 level of theories. Rate constants for the unimolecular decomposition pathways are calculated using Rice−Ramsperger−Kassel−Marcus (RRKM) theory. On the basis of the experimental observation and theoretical predictions, the pyrolysis channels are considered as primary and secondary pyrolysis reactions. The primary decomposition via a five-membered transition state leads to the formation of tert-butanethiosulfoxylic acid (t-BuSSOH) and 2-methylpropene (C4H8) almost exclusively having low-pressure limit rate constant k(1)(0) = 4.67 × 10(−6)T(−4.67) exp(−11.64 kcal mol(−1)/RT) cm3 mol(−1) s(−1) (T = 500−800 K). The primary decomposition via a six-membered transition state is also identified, and that leads to the tert-butanethiosulfinic acid t-BuS(OH)S, which is the branched chain isomer of t-BuSSOH. The formation of t-BuSSOH is thermodynamically as well as kinetically favorable over t-BuS(OH)S formation, and therefore the second product could not be found experimentally. Furthermore, calculation on secondary pyrolysis pathways involving the decomposition of t-BuSSOH leads to the formation of 1-oxatrisulfane (trans-HSSOH and cis-HSSOH) and their branched isomer S(SH)OH. These three secondary product formation rates are competitive, but thermodynamics do not favor the formation of the branched isomer. Among the secondary pyrolysis products, trans-HSSOH is the most stable one, and its formation rate constant at low pressure is calculated to be k(3)(0) = 5.49 × 10(28)T(−10.70) exp(−36.22 kcal mol(−1)/RT) cm3 mol(−1) s(−1) (T = 800−1500 K). Finally, the secondary pyrolysis pathway from less stable product t-BuS(OH)S is also predicted, and that leads to trans-HSSOH and cis-HSSOH products with almost equal rates. A bond-order analysis using Wiberg bond indexes obtained by natural bond orbital (NBO) calculation predicts that the primary and secondary pyrolysis of t-BuS(O)St-Bu occur via E1-like mechanism.
21417378	Amylose and amylopectin of rice mutants deficient in a starch synthase (SS) isozyme in the endosperm, either SSI (ΔSSI) or SSIIIa (ΔSSIIIa), were structurally altered from those of their parent (cv. Nipponbare, Np). The amylose content was higher in the mutants (Np, 15.5%; ΔSSI, 18.2%; ΔSSIIIa, 23.6%), and the molar ratio of branched amylose and its side chains was increased. The chain-length distribution of the β-amylase limit dextrins of amylopectin showed regularity, which appeared consistent with the generally accepted cluster structure, and the degrees of polymerization found at the intersections were taken as the boundaries of the B-chain fractions. The mole % of the B(1)-B(3) fractions was changed slightly in ΔSSI, which is consistent with the proposed role of SSI in elongating the external part of clusters. In ΔSSIIIa, a significant increase in the B(1) fraction and a decrease in the B(2) and B(3) fractions were observed. The internal chain length of the B(2) and B(3) fractions appeared to be slightly altered, suggesting that the deficiency in SS affected the actions of branching enzyme(s).
21417467	A butachlor-degrading strain, designated FLY-8, was isolated from rice field soil and was identified as Paracoccus sp. Strain FLY-8 could degrade and utilize six chloroacetamide herbicides as carbon sources for growth, and the degradation rates followed the order alachlor > acetochlor > propisochlor > butachlor > pretilachlor > metolachlor. The influence of molecular structure of the chloroacetamide herbicides on the microbial degradation rate was first analyzed; the results indicated that the substitutions of alkoxymethyl side chain with alkoxyethyl side chain greatly reduced the degradation efficiencies; the length of amide nitrogen's alkoxymethyl significantly affected the biodegradability of these herbicides: the longer the alkyl was, the slower the degradation efficiencies occurred. The phenyl alkyl substituents have no obvious influence on the degradation efficiency. The pathway of butachlor complete mineralization was elucidated on the basis of the results of metabolite identification and enzyme assays. Butachlor was degraded to alachlor by partial C-dealkylation and then converted to 2-chloro-N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)acetamide by N-dealkylation, which subsequently transformed to 2,6-diethylaniline, which was further degraded via the metabolites aniline and catechol, and catechol was oxidized through an ortho-cleavage pathway. This study highlights an important potential use of strain FLY-8 for the in situ bioremediation of chloroacetamide herbicides and their metabolite-contaminated environment.
21418352	In this study, we characterized the semi-dominant mutant nls1-1D (necrotic leaf sheath 1) of rice, which displays spontaneous lesions, specifically on leaf sheaths, with a developmental pattern. nls1-1D plants also exhibited constitutively activated defense responses, including extensive cell death, excess hydrogen peroxide and salicylic acid (SA) accumulation, up-regulated expressions of pathogenesis-related genes, and enhanced resistance to bacterial pathogens. Map-based cloning revealed that NLS1 encodes a typical CC-NB-LRR-type protein in rice. The nls1-1D mutation causes a S367N substitution in the non-conserved region close to the GLPL motif of the NB domain. An adjacent S366T substitution was found in another semi-dominant mutant, nls1-2D, which exhibited the same phenotypes as nls1-1D. Combined analyses of wild-type plants transformed with the mutant NLS1 gene (nls1-1D), NLS1 RNAi and over-expression transgenic lines showed that nls1-2D is allelic to nls1-1D, and both mutations may cause constitutive auto-activation of the NLS1 R protein. Further real-time PCR analysis revealed that NLS1 is expressed constitutively in an age-dependent manner. In addition, because the morphology and constitutive defense responses of nls1-1D were not suppressed by blocking SA or NPR1 transcript accumulation, we suggest that NLS1 mediates both SA and NPR1-independent defense signaling pathways in rice.
21418356	Catabolism of brassinosteroids regulates the endogenous level of bioactive brassinosteroids. In Arabidopsis thaliana, bioactive brassinosteroids such as castasterone (CS) and brassinolide (BL) are inactivated mainly by two cytochrome P450 monooxygenases, CYP734A1/BAS1 and CYP72C1/SOB7/CHI2/SHK1; CYP734A1/BAS1 inactivates CS and BL by means of C-26 hydroxylation. Here, we characterized CYP734A orthologs from Oryza sativa (rice). Overexpression of rice CYP734As in transgenic rice gave typical brassinosteroid-deficient phenotypes. These transformants were deficient in both the bioactive CS and its precursors downstream of the C-22 hydroxylation step. Consistent with this result, recombinant rice CYP734As utilized a range of C-22 hydroxylated brassinosteroid intermediates as substrates. In addition, rice CYP734As can catalyze hydroxylation and the second and third oxidations to produce aldehyde and carboxylate groups at C-26 in vitro. These results indicate that rice CYP734As are multifunctional, multisubstrate enzymes that control the endogenous bioactive brassinosteroid content both by direct inactivation of CS and by the suppression of CS biosynthesis by decreasing the levels of brassinosteroid precursors.
21418523	Two weak dormancy mutants, designated Q4359 and Q4646, were obtained from the rice cultivar N22 after treatment with 400 Gy (60) Co gamma-radiation. Compared to the N22 cultivar, the dormancy of the mutant seeds was more readily broken when exposed to a period of room temperature storage. The mutants also showed a reduced level of sensitivity to abscisic acid compared to the N22 cultivar, although Q4359 was more insensitive than Q4646. A genetic analysis indicated that in both mutants, the reduced dormancy trait was caused by a single recessive allele of a nuclear gene, but that the mutated locus was different in each case. The results of quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping, based on the F(2) population from Q4359 x Nanjing35, suggested that Q4359 lacks the QTL qSdn-1 and carries a novel allele at QTL qSdn-9, while a similar analysis of the Q4646 x Nanjing35 F(2) population suggested that Q4646 lacks QTL qSdn-5, both qSdn-1 and qSdn-5 are major effect seed dormancy QTL in N22. Therefore, these two mutants were helpful to understand the mechanism of seed dormancy in N22.
21419317	Intake of whole grains has been associated with lower risks of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Brown rice is unrefined whole grain and is produced by removing the outermost layers containing the germ and bran, which are rich in nutrients including dietary fiber, vitamins, minerals, and other unmeasured dietary constituents. The lees of brown rice (LB) are by-products of its fermentation in the process of manufacturing takju, a Korean turbid rice wine. In this study, we hypothesized that intake of LB would reduce waist circumference, a strong risk factor for cardiovascular disease in type 2 diabetic patients. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was scheduled for 12 weeks. Thirty subjects were randomly assigned to receive a supplement prepared from the LB or from a mixed-grain dietary product (MG). Body weight, waist circumference, body composition, lipid profiles, and other laboratory parameters were measured. The LB group showed greater reduction in waist circumference (LB: 87.9 ± 8.8 to 85.1 ± 9.0 cm; MG: 86.9 ± 8.8 to 86.0 ± 9.3 cm; P = .032). In addition, the consumption of LB resulted in a significantly greater decrease in the level of aspartate transaminase (LB: 25.4 ± 8.5 to 21.0 ± 5.1 IU/mL; MG: 22.5 ± 5.3 to 22.4 ± 5.7 IU/mL; P = .044) and alanine transaminase (LB: 28.6 ± 11.3 to 21.9 ± 8.2 IU/mL; MG: 24.4 ± 7.5 to 24.5 ± 9.9 IU/mL; P = .038). Consumption of the LB was associated with a decreased waist circumference in type 2 diabetic patients. Further study is required to evaluate the metabolic effect of the extract of the LB in type 2 diabetes.
21420516	Plants have evolved sophisticated systems to cope with adverse environmental conditions such as cold, drought, and salinity. Although a number of stress response networks have been proposed, the role of plant apoplast in plant stress response has been ignored. To investigate the role of apoplastic proteins in the salt stress response, 10-day old rice plants were treated with 200mM NaCl for 1, 6 or 12h, and the soluble apoplast proteins of rice shoot stems were extracted for differential analysis, compared with untreated controls, by 2-D DIGE saturation labeling techniques. One hundred twenty-two significantly changed spots were identified by LC-MS/MS, and 117 spots representing 69 proteins have been identified. Of these proteins, 37 are apoplastic proteins according to the bioinformatic analysis. These proteins are mainly involved in the processes of carbohydrate metabolism, oxido-reduction, and protein processing and degradation. According to their functional categories and cluster analysis, a stress response model of apoplastic proteins has been proposed. These data indicate that the apoplast is important in plant stress signal reception and response.
21420713	Arsenic (As) is highly mobilized when paddy soil is flooded, causing increased uptake of As by rice. We investigated factors controlling soil-to-solution partitioning of As under anaerobic conditions. Changes in As and iron (Fe) speciation due to flooded incubation of two paddy soils (soils A and B) were investigated by HPLC/ICP-MS and XANES. The flooded incubation resulted in a decrease in Eh, a rise in pH, and an increase in the As(III) fraction in the soil solid phase up to 80% of the total As in the soils. The solution-to-soil ratio of As(III) and As(V) (R(L/S)) increased with pH due to the flooded incubation. The R(L/S) for As(III) was higher than that for As(V), indicating that As(III) was more readily released from soil to solution than was As(V). Despite the small differences in As concentrations between the two soils, the amount of As dissolved by anaerobic incubation was lower in soil A. With the development of anaerobic conditions, Fe(II) remained in the soil solid phase as the secondary mineral siderite, and a smaller amount of Fe was dissolved from soil A than from soil B. The dissolution of Fe minerals rather than redox reaction of As(V) to As(III) explained the different dissolution amounts of As in the two paddy soils. Anaerobic incubation for 30 d after the incomplete suppression of microbial activity caused a drop in Eh. However, this decline in Eh did not induce the transformation of As(V) to As(III) in either the soil solid or solution phases, and the dissolution of As was limited. Microbial activity was necessary for the reductive reaction of As(V) to As(III) even when Eh reached the condition necessary for the dominance of As(III). Ratios of released As to Fe from the soils were decreased with incubation time during both anaerobic incubation and abiotic dissolution by sodium ascorbate, suggesting that a larger amount of As was associated with an easily soluble fraction of Fe (hydr) oxide in amorphous phase and/or smaller particles.
21421345	Several molecular evidences have been gathered in Poaceae that point out a central role of the CBF/DREB1 transcription factors in the signal transduction pathways leading to low-temperature tolerance, although to a quite different extent between crops originating from either temperate or tropical climates. A common feature of the CBF/DREB1 genes in Poaceae is their structural organization at the genome level in clusters of tandemly duplicated genes. In temperate cereals such as barley and wheat, expansion of specific multigene phylogenetic clades of CBFs that map at the Frost Resistance-2 locus has been exclusively observed. In addition, copy number variants of CBF genes between frost resistant and frost sensitive genotypes raise the question if multiple copies of the CBF/DREB1s are required to ensure freezing tolerance. On the other hand, in crops of tropical origin such as rice and maize, a smaller or less-responsive CBF regulon may have evolved, and different mechanisms might determine chilling tolerance. In this review, recent advances on the organization and diversity at the CBF cluster locus in the grasses are provided and discussed.
21421362	RNA-binding proteins play critical roles at multiple steps during gene expression, including mRNA transport and translation. mRNA transport is particularly important in rice (Oryza sativa L.) in order to ensure the proper localization of the prolamine and glutelin seed storage proteins. However, relatively little information is available about RNA-binding proteins that have been isolated or characterized in plants. The RiceRBP database is a novel resource for the analysis of RNA-binding proteins in rice. RiceRBP contains 257 experimentally identified RNA-binding proteins, which are derived from at least 221 distinct rice genes. Many of the identified proteins catalogued in RiceRBP had not previously been annotated or predicted to bind RNA. RiceRBP provides tools to facilitate the analysis of the identified RNA-binding proteins, including information about predicted protein domains, phylogenetic relationships, and expression patterns of the identified genes. Importantly, RiceRBP also contains tools to search and analyze predicted RNA-binding protein orthologs in other plant species. We anticipate that the data and analysis tools provided by RiceRBP should facilitate the study of plant RNA-binding proteins. RiceRBP is available at http://www.bioinformatics2.wsu.edu/RiceRBP.
21421368	The goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of nitrogen starvation and resupply in 10 PM H+-ATPase isoforms and the expression of NO₃⁻ and NH₄+ transporters in rice. The net uptake of both forms of NO₃⁻-N or NH₄+-N was increased with its resupply. Resupply of NO₃⁻ resulted in induction of the following PM H+-ATPase isoforms, OsA1, OsA2, OsA5 and OsA7 in the shoots and OsA2, OsA5, OsA7 and OsA8 in the roots. Resupply of NH₄+ resulted in the induction of the following OsA1, OsA3 and OsA7 isoforms in the roots while OsA1 was induced in the shoots. It was observed that increased PM H+-ATPase activity also resulted in increased net uptake of NO₃⁻ and NH₄+. In the roots, OsNRT2.1 and OsNRT2.2 were induced by NO₃⁻ resupply, while OsAMT1.1 and OsAMT1.2 were induced by NH₄+ deficiency. The results showed that the expression of PM H+-ATPase isoforms is related to NO₃⁻ and NH₄+ transporters as well as in which section of the plant it takes place. PM H+-ATPase isoforms OsA2 and OsA7 displayed the strongest induction in response to N resupply, therefore indicating that these genes could be involved in N uptake in rice.
21421421	The developmental characteristics of root border cells (RBCs) and their role in protection of root apices of rice seedling from Al toxicity were evaluated in two rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars differing in Al tolerance. Root elongation and RBCs viability were used as indicators for Al effects. The formation of RBCs and the emergence of the root tip occurred almost simultaneously. Treatment of the root with Al inhibited root elongation and increased Al accumulation in the root tips. Physical removal of RBCs from root tips resulted in a more severe inhibition of root elongation and a higher Al accumulation in the root tips. These effects were more pronounced in the Al-sensitive rice cultivar (II You 6216) than that in the Al-tolerant rice cultivar (II You 838). The relative viability of attached and detached RBCs decreased with increasing Al concentrations. Al also induced a thicker mucilage layer surrounding attached RBCs of both cultivars, and detached RBCs did not. Maintaining the abundant live RBCs encapsulated root tip and enhancing their mucilage secretion, appear to be important in alleviating Al toxicity and in allowing exclusion of Al from the rice root apex.
21421425	Two representative weedy rice lines, three typical japonica varieties and three typical indica varieties were used for 6 pairs of reciprocal crosses. The morphological traits of twelve F(1) hybrid lines, their parents and four elite cultivars were investigated for heterosis over mid-parent (HM), over parent (HP) and competitive heterosis (CH) analysis. Traits detected in weedy rice lines seemed larger than those in cultivars and excellent heterosis was produced in weedy rice crossing with japonica rice. Although weedy rice kept closer relationships with japonica rice compared to indica rice. But the heterosis of reciprocal crosses between weedy rice and japonica was closed to those of crosses between indica rice and japonica rice. In six of one hundred and eighteen weedy rice lines, the fertility restore gene for BT type cytoplasmic male sterility (BT-CMS) were detected. Weedy rice was very valuable germplasm resources with the abundant polymorphism. Meanwhile, the disadvantage, lodging, shattering and incompact plant type, should be modified by hybridization, backcross and multiple cross with japonica rice. Although it is difficult to use weedy rice directly, weedy rice may be available to breed both male sterile line and restorer line through improvement, developing japonica hybrid rice.
21421552	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of biological processes in plants and animals. Recently, miRNA genes have been discovered, whose primary transcripts are spliced and which cannot be predicted directly from genomic sequence. Hence, more sophisticated programs for the detection of spliced miRNAs are required. Here, we present the first method for the prediction of spliced miRNAs in plants. For a given genomic sequence, SplamiR creates a database of complementary sequence pairs, which might encode for RNAs folding into stem-loop structures. Next, in silico splice variants of database sequences with complementarity to an mRNA of interest are classified as to whether they could represent miRNAs targeting this mRNA. Our method identifies all known cases of spliced miRNAs in rice, and a previously undiscovered miRNA in maize which is supported by an expressed sequence tag (EST). SplamiR permits identification of spliced miRNAs for a given target mRNA in many plant genomes. The program is freely available at http://www.uni-jena.de/SplamiR.html.
21422711	Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is believed to contribute to atherosclerosis in part by being taken up into macrophages via scavenger receptors, thus accounting for foam cells. Balsamic vinegar is made from grapes and generally consumed in the Mediterranean region. In this study, we investigated the preventive effects of balsamic vinegar on LDL oxidation and foam cell formation. Balsamic vinegar had stronger 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging abilities and higher polyphenol concentrations than rice vinegar. Balsamic vinegar dramatically inhibited LDL oxidation by azoradicals and endothelial cell-mediated oxidation in vitro. Further, we assessed the anti-oxidative effect against LDL after balsamic vinegar consumption in human subjects. Balsamic vinegar prolonged the LDL oxidation lag time and decreased lipid peroxide (LPO) and lyso-phosphatidylcholine (LPC) in LDL particles. We next examined the effect of balsamic vinegar on foam cell formation. Oil red O staining showed that balsamic vinegar inhibited oxidized LDL-induced foam cell formation in THP-1 macrophages. The concentrations of intracellular triglycerides and total cholesterols were reduced in the presence of balsamic vinegar. In addition, balsamic vinegar decreased the mRNA and protein expression level of scavenger receptors in THP-1 macrophages. These results showed that balsamic vinegar contained abundant polyphenols and inhibited LDL oxidation and oxidized LDL-induced foam cell formation by decreasing the expression of scavenger receptors.
21422766	Oxidative injury in schizophrenia may be caused not only by pathophysiological processes but partly also by treatment with antipsychotics. The purpose of the present study was to examine and to compare the effects of quetiapine (QUE), olanzapine (OLA) and haloperidol (HAL), at final concentrations corresponding to doses used for treatment of acute episodes of schizophrenia, on plasma lipid peroxidation in vitro, measured by the level of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). Blood from 30 healthy volunteers was collected into ACD (citric acid/citrate/dextrose) solution. The drugs in form of active substances were dissolved in 0.01% dimethyl sulfoxide, added to plasma at the final concentrations [QUE (175 and 275 ng/ml), OLA (20 and 40 ng/ml), HAL (4 and 20 ng/ml)] and incubated for 1 and 24 h at 37 °C. The level of TBARS was measured spectrophotometrically (according to the Rice-Evans method, 1991). The comparative study in vitro showed that QUE causes a decrease in the TBARS level in plasma, whereas HAL increases the plasma TBARS level. After 24 h of incubation of plasma with QUE or HAL (at lower and higher concentrations),thedifferences in TBARS levels between the drugs were significant (p = 5.9 × 10⁻⁴, p = 2.2 × 10⁻⁵, respectively). QUE and OLA, contrary to the prooxidative action of HAL, did not induce oxidative stress; moreover, QUE has antioxidant properties.
21422823	Mycorrhizal fungi form a mutualistic relationship with the roots of most plant species. This association provides the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungus with sugars while the fungus improves the uptake of water and mineral nutrients in the host plant. Moreover, the induction of defence gene expression in mycorrhizal roots has been described. While salicylic acid (SA)-regulated Pathogenesis-Related (PR) proteins accumulate in rice roots colonized by the AM fungus G. intraradices, the SA content is not significantly altered in the mycorrhizal roots. Sugars, in addition to being a source of carbon for the fungus, might act as signals for the control of defence gene expression. We hypothesize that increased demands for sugars by the fungus might be responsible for the activation of the host defence responses which will then contribute to the stabilization of root colonization by the AM fungus. An excessive root colonization might change a mutualistic association into a parasitic association.
21423286	The functional stay-green trait gives leaves a longer duration of greenness and photosynthetic capacity during the grain-filling period. We developed two independent recombinant inbred line populations from the intra- and intersubspecific crosses of Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica 'Suweon490' (japonica) × O. sativa subsp. japonica 'SNU-SG1' (japonica) and O. sativa subsp. indica 'Andabyeo' (indica) × O. sativa subsp. japonica 'SNU-SG1' (japonica), respectively. The common parental line 'SNU-SG1' was the functional source for the stay-green trait. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping based on simple sequence repeat markers identified a total of six QTLs associated with two stay-green traits across two populations. The two traits were cumulative chlorophyll content (SPAD value) of flag leaf (CSFL) and total cumulative SPAD value of the four upper leaves (TCS). Four QTLs, tcs4, csfl6, csfl9 (or tcs9), and csfl12, located on chromosomes 4, 6, 9, and 12, respectively, were detected simultaneously in both populations. The remaining two QTLs, csfl2 (or tcs2) and tcs5, on chromosomes 2 and 5, respectively, were found to be population specific. Moreover, the functional stay-green trait of 'SNU-SG1' positively correlated with grain yield performance. Two yield QTLs, yld6 and yld9, on chromosomes 6 and 9 found in both populations were positioned at the same locations with the csfl6 and tcs9 QTLs for stay-green traits. Thus, the identified chromosomal regions can be promising targets of marker-assisted introgression of the functional stay-green trait into breeding materials for improvement of rice yield.
21423767	A strong postzygotic reproductive barrier separates the recently diverged Asian and African cultivated rice species, Oryza sativa and O. glaberrima. Recently a model of genetic incompatibilities between three adjacent loci: S(1)A, S(1) and S(1)B (called together the S(1) regions) interacting epistatically, was postulated to cause the allelic elimination of female gametes in interspecific hybrids. Two candidate factors for the S(1) locus (including a putative F-box gene) were proposed, but candidates for S(1)A and S(1)B remained undetermined. Here, to better understand the basis of the evolution of regions involved in reproductive isolation, we studied the genic and structural changes accumulated in the S(1) regions between orthologous sequences. First, we established an 813 kb genomic sequence in O. glaberrima, covering completely the S(1)A, S(1) and the majority of the S(1)B regions, and compared it with the orthologous regions of O. sativa. An overall strong structural conservation was observed, with the exception of three isolated regions of disturbed collinearity: (1) a local invasion of transposable elements around a putative F-box gene within S(1), (2) the multiple duplication and subsequent divergence of the same F-box gene within S(1)A, (3) an interspecific chromosomal inversion in S(1)B, which restricts recombination in our O. sativa×O. glaberrima crosses. Beside these few structural variations, a uniform conservative pattern of coding sequence divergence was found all along the S(1) regions. Hence, the S(1) regions have undergone no drastic variation in their recent divergence and evolution between O. sativa and O. glaberrima, suggesting that a small accumulation of genic changes, following a Bateson-Dobzhansky-Muller (BDM) model, might be involved in the establishment of the sterility barrier. In this context, genetic incompatibilities involving the duplicated F-box genes as putative candidates, and a possible strengthening step involving the chromosomal inversion might participate to the reproductive barrier between Asian and African rice species.
21424337	A gene (arf) encoding an α-L: -arabinofuranosidase (ARF) that hydrolyzes arabinose substituted on xylan was isolated from Penicillium sp. The gene was predicted to encode 339 amino acid residues showing 71-75% homology to GH family 54. E. coli expressed ARF showed optimal activity at 50°C and pH 5-6 on wheat arabinoxylan. The hydrolysis activities on oat spelt xylan by ARF and xylanase were 1.67-fold higher than that of xylanase alone. The synergistic effects of ARF and commercial enzymes (xylanase and cellulase) on popping-pretreated rice straw were 1.15-1.51-fold higher amounts of sugars released in the [ARF + xylanase + cellulase] mixture than in the mixtures [ARF + xylanase], [ARF + cellulase], and [xylanase + cellulase]. Moreover, the liberation of arabinose by ARF was enhanced 2.1-2.9-fold in a reaction with xylanase and cellulase as compared with [xylanase + cellulase] and ARF alone.
21424397	Rhizoctonia solani is a necrotrophic fungal pathogen that causes disease on many crop-plant species. Anastomosis group 1-IA is the causal agent of sheath blight of rice (Oryza sativa L.), one of the most important rice diseases worldwide. R. solani AG1-IA produces a necrosis-inducing phytotoxin and rice cultivar's sensitivity to the toxin correlates with disease susceptibility. Unlike genetic analyses of sheath blight resistance where resistance loci have been reported as quantitative trait loci, phytotoxin sensitivity is inherited as a Mendelian trait that permits high-resolution mapping of the sensitivity genes. An F(2) mapping population derived from parent cultivars 'Cypress' (toxin sensitive) and 'Jasmine 85' (toxin insensitive) was used to map Rsn1, the necrosis-inducing locus. Initial mapping based on 176 F(2) progeny and 69 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers located Rsn1 on the long arm of chromosome 7, with tight linkage to SSR marker RM418. A high-resolution genetic map of the region was subsequently developed using a total of 1,043 F(2) progeny, and Rsn1 was mapped to a 0.7 cM interval flanked by markers NM590 and RM418. Analysis of the corresponding 29 Kb genomic sequences from reference cultivars 'Nipponbare' and '93-11' revealed the presence of four putative genes within the interval. Two are expressed cytokinin-O-glucosyltransferases, which fit an apoptotic pathway model of toxin activity, and are individually being investigated further as potential candidates for Rsn1.
21424709	Photodegradation of insecticides, imidacloprid and fipronil, in rice-paddy water under the ambient temperature was investigated. The initial concentrations were set at 58.8 and 3.1 μg/L for imidacloprid and fipronil, respectively, according to their reported initial concentrations in the rice-paddy field. The half-lives (DT(50)) of imidacloprid and fipronil were 24.2 and 36.7 h, respectively. Fipronil desulfinyl was detected as a major metabolite and fipronil sulfone was found to be a minor metabolite of fipronil in the photodegradation process. Detected mass of fipronil, fipronil desulfinyl, and fipronil sulfone at 79 h were 12.9%, 45.8%, and 5.2% of initial fipronil mass, respectively.
21424962	Trace element analysis plays an important role in oil characterisation and in the detection of oil adulteration because the quality of edible oils and fats is affected by their trace metal content. In this study, the quantification of selected metals in various oils and fats (rice oil, canola oil, sunflower oil, corn oil, soy oil, olive oil, light margarine, regular margarine and butter) was carried out using flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) and graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GFAAS) after sample emulsification. FAAS was used to determine the Na, K, Ca, Mg, Zn and Fe levels in the samples, while GFAAS was used for quantifying Cr, Ni, As, Pb, Cd, Cu and Mn, as these elements appeared in the samples at much lower concentrations. Tween-80 and Triton X-100 were employed as surfactants, and emulsions were prepared by a conventional method that involved heating and mixing of the constituents. Complete stabilisation was achieved through magnetic stirring for 15 min at room temperature. The evaluated figures of merit were linearity, accuracy and sensitivity, which were determined by the characteristic concentration and mass. Analysis of spiked samples demonstrated accuracy, which ranged from 90% (Na) to 112% (Fe) for FAAS and from 83% (Cd) to 121% (Pb) for GFAAS measurements. Atomic absorption spectrometry proved to be a promising approach for the analysis of metals in emulsified edible oils and fats. Additionally, under appropriate emulsification conditions (formulation, stirring time and temperature), the emulsions were homogeneous, had excellent stability, and had appropriate viscosity. The proposed method has proved to be simple, sensitive, reproducible, and economical.
21425670	A wild fungal strain of Aspergillus terreus, labeled as PM3, was isolated by using the Candida albicans bioassay and confirmed by 18S r DNA analyses. Lovastatin was produced by submerged and solid state fermentations. Of the 30 isolated fungal strains, 11 showed lovastatin production with Aspergillus terreus PM3 being the best with a yield of 240 mg/L at the 10th day of submerged fermentation. Carboxymethylcellulose had a stimulatory effect on lovastatin production. It restricted uncontrolled filamentous growth, induced pellet formation and, thereby, improved lovastatin yield. In solid state fermentation (SSF), of the agro wastes from five crops (bran of wheat and rice, husks of red gram and soybean, and green gram straw), wheat bran showed maximum lovastatin production (12.5 mg/g of dry substrate) at pH 7.1 and a temperature of 30 +/- 2 degrees C. Development of a lovastatin production process based on wheat bran as a substrate in SSF is economically attractive as it is a cheap and readily available raw material in agriculture-based countries.
2142594	The non-transcribed spacer (NTS) region of the rDNA of Neurospora crassa contains the transcription regulatory sequences. We isolated a 3.4 kb EcoRI fragment from wild type N.crassa rDNA and cloned in the plasmid pBR325 at the EcoRI site. The insert contains the entire NTS region along with the flanking sequences. Nucleotide sequencing of 3592 nt shows many interesting features like: the NTS region is rich in G+C content (65% G+C); it contains the conserved rRNA processing site 6 (with the nucleotide sequence motif GGTGCGAGAACCCGG, from nt residue 226 to 240, a characteristic feature of most eukaryotic rDNA nontranscribed spacer region); and the NTS region also contains the transcription termination site with the representative Sal I box (from nt residue 1469 to 1477). The potential sequences of transcription termination site are located 288 nt downstream from the end of 26S rRNA gene, and another sequence motif CTTCCT (from nt residue 512 to 517) shows similarity with the human transcription termination site T-2 of its pre-rRNA. Nucleotide sequence homology matrix analysis suggests its relatedness to Saccharomyces cerevisiae and not to human, mouse, rat, Drosophila, Xenopus, wheat, rice and cucumber NTS region. The phylogenetic implication of the NTS region and exploitation of N.crassa NTS rDNA clone to correlate the otherwise indistinguishable species of Neurospora and the correlation with other organisms has been discussed. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report where the nucleotide sequence of the entire NTS region of a filamentous fungus has been determined.
21426364	In this study, the effects of plant genotype, soil type and nutrient use efficiency on the composition of different bacterial communities associated with rice roots were investigated. Thus, total bacteria, Alpha- and Betaproteobacteria, Pseudomonas and Actinobacteria were studied using PCR, followed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). Rice genotype determined, to a large extent, the composition of the different bacterial communities across cultivars. Several cultivars belonging to Oryza sativa ssp. indica tended to select similar bacterial communities, whereas those belonging to subspecies japonica and aromatica selected ones with divergent community structures. An effect of soil type was pronounced for the Actinobacteria communities, while a small effect of 'improved' and 'traditional' plants was noted for all communities analyzed. A few dominant bands in PCR-DGGE, affiliated with Rhizobium radiobacter, Dickeya zeae, Mycobacterium bolletii and with members of the Rhizobiales, Rhodospirillaceae and Paenibacillaceae, were spread across cultivars. In contrast, a majority of bands (e.g. affiliated with Enterobacter cloacae or Burkholderia kururiensis) was only present in particular cultivars or was erratically distributed among rice replicates. These findings suggested that both bacterial adaptation and plant genotype contribute to the shaping of the dynamic bacterial communities associated with roots of rice plants.
21426477	We generated rice lines with increased content of nicotianamine (NA), a key ligand for metal transport and homeostasis. This was accomplished by activation tagging of rice nicotianamine synthase 2 (OsNAS2). Enhanced expression of the gene resulted in elevated NA levels, greater Zn accumulations and improved plant tolerance to a Zn deficiency. Expression of Zn-uptake genes and those for the biosynthesis of phytosiderophores (PS) were increased in transgenic plants. This suggests that the higher amount of NA led to greater exudation of PS from the roots, as well as stimulated Zn uptake, translocation and seed-loading. In the endosperm, the OsNAS2 activation-tagged line contained up to 20-fold more NA and 2.7-fold more zinc. Liquid chromatography combined with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry revealed that the total content of zinc complexed with NA and 2'-deoxymugineic acid was increased 16-fold. Mice fed with OsNAS2-D1 seeds recovered more rapidly from a zinc deficiency than did control mice receiving WT seeds. These results demonstrate that the level of bio-available zinc in rice grains can be enhanced significantly by activation tagging of OsNAS2.
21427735	a criticism of glycemic index (GI) is that it does not indicate the insulin response of foods (insulinemic index, II). However, it is unknown if the GI and II values of foods are equivalent in all subjects, a necessary criterion for clinical utility. We compared GI and II values in non-diabetic subjects with fasting-serum-insulin (FSI) <40 pmol/l (healthy control) or with FSI ≥ 40 pmol/l (hyper[I]) and subjects with type 2 diabetes (T2DM), and to see whether GI and II were related to the serum-glucose concentrations, insulin sensitivity, β-cell function and hepatic insulin extraction (HIE) of the subjects. Serum-glucose, -insulin and -C-peptide responses after 50 g available-carbohydrate portions of glucose (tested three times by each subject), sucrose, instant mashed-potato, white-bread, polished-rice and pearled-barley were measured in healthy control (n=9), hyper[I] (n=12) and T2DM (n=10) subjects. Food GI values did not differ significantly among the three subject groups, whereas II values were higher in T2DM (100±7) than healthy controls (78±5) and hyper[I] subjects (70±5) (mean±s.e.m., P=0.05). II was inversely associated with insulin sensitivity (r=-0.66, P<0.0001) and positively related to fasting- and postprandial-glucose (both r=0.68, P<0.0001) and HIE (r=0.62, P=0.0002). In contrast, GI was not related to any of the biomarkers (P>0.05). The GI is a valid property of foods because its value is similar in healthy control, hyper [I] and T2DM subjects, and is independent of subjects' metabolic status. However, II may depend upon the glycaemic control, insulin sensitivity and HIE of the subjects.
21427887	Atole is a Mexican pre-hispanic drink prepared traditionally with corn; however, cereals as wheat, rice and amaranth have also been used. The aim of this study was to determine the physicochemical and sensory properties of an amaranth flour to prepare a drink (atole) mentioned above, in order to determine its nutritive value. Proximate analysis of the amaranth, corn and rice drink flours was determined by means of official techniques of AOAC. Mineral content was carried out by atomic absorption spectrometry. Viscosity was measured in a reometer from 25 to 90 degrees C. The quantitative descriptive profile (QDA) of the amaranth drink was studied by a trained panel of 10 judges. Results showed that the amaranth drink flour presented the highest protein and fat content compared to corn and rice drink flours. Sodium and potassium were the most abundant minerals in all flours studied. Corn and rice drink flours showed a constant viscosity from 20 to 84 degrees C, to 85 degrees C an important increase in this parameter was observed. This increase was detected in the amaranth drink flour to 75 degrees C. Descriptors defined by trained judges for the QDA of the amaranth drink flours were: starch, almond/cherry, caramel, vanilla, strawberry, walnut and chocolate. The amaranth drink flour, compared to corn and rice drink flours, presented the best nutritional profile; it is important to emphasize its protein content.
21428060	Tryptophan is one of the essential amino acids in human, and also considered as an important limiting amino acid in rice. Alkali hydrolysis method was used to determine the tryptophan content of 272 representative samples selected from the 1 256 samples in four years. Based on the milled rice flour spectroscopy, by comparing the prediction abilities of the equations with global calibrations and local calibration, the global calibration method with MPLS and the local calibration method were better than others. Their calibration models could be introduced to application because of low standard errors of prediction for both methods (0.007%) and high coefficients of determination (87.1% and 87.4%, respectively). Furthermore, the prediction ability of the equation based on the brown rice spectroscopy could be still used for determination application though their effects were worse than that of the milled rice flour spectroscopy. It was concluded that the equation could be directly used to estimate the content of tryptophan in milled rice, and the technology of near infrared reflectance spectroscopy developed in this study could be applied in selecting breeding materials for higher tryptophan content and in quality control during rice processing.
21428085	It is of significance to monitor chlorophyll content with hyperspectral data for crop growth diagnosis in field. In the study, with the point of view that spectral curve shapes display "tall, low, fat and thin" morphological changes, we proposed some new characteristic parameters from spectral curve such as the ascensive or degressive velocities of segments composing peak or valley shapes in spectral curve, and angles formed by the lines fitting the segments of two sides of peak or valley curves, and used the normalized spectra to analyze correlation between these parameters and rice chlorophyll content. The result shows that (1) there is a good negative correlation between rice chlorophyll content and normalized reflectance spectra from 520-740 nm; (2) characteristic parameters from green peak region of spectral curve display better correlation with rice chlorophyll content, which makes it possible to utilize the parameters to monitor crop chlorophyll content, and will provide new ideas and methods for carrying out crop growth diagnosis with hyperspectral data.
21428086	In order to detect the Cd stress levels of rice growing in natural environment fast and accurately, based on wavelet transform technology in the visible light and near-infrared region (NIR), a method of identifying stress levels of rice under Cd pollution was explored. The hyperspectral data, biochemical parameters and heavy metals concentration in folium were collected for the rice growing in natural farmlands. Wavelet transform of hyperspectral reflectance (350-1 300 nm) was performed by using Daubechies 5 mother function and wavelet energy coefficients of spectral reflectance were extracted. In addition, the model between wavelet energy coefficient and Cd content was established. The result showed that the wavelet coefficients of the fifth decomposition level (d5) proved successful for detecting Cd pollution of rice; the singularity range of rice located in the region around 550-810 nm of spectral signal under Cd pollution; and the singularity amplitude was 0.04; The centre of modulus maxima located at 700 nm. Regression model based on third level wavelet energy coefficient can estimate the Cd content of rice accurately with the coefficient of determination (R2) of 0.958, and root mean square error (RMSE) of 0.122. It can be concluded that the singularity analysis technology applying wavelet transform to reflectance has been shown to be very promising in detecting rice under Cd pollution effectively, and wavelet energy coefficients can estimate Cd content of rice, and provide important reference for detecting other metal-induced stress on crop.
21428250	An elite maize inbred line with high tolerance to low phosphorus, 178, was studied for constructing root library and analyzing some genes closely related to phosphorus (P) deficiency using SSH and Semi-quantitative RT-PCR. As a result, 3648 preliminary clones were obtained for root library under stress of P deficiency. By DNA sequencing of 34 random clones, we obtained 23 unique EST sequences which are involved in functions of root cell structure, tolerance and defense, protein modification and composition, transcription regulation, metabolism, and other unknown aspects. Five representative genes were further analyzed for their expression models. The results suggested that the molecular mechanism to adapt P deficiency in maize, performed by multi-genes with different contributions, is similar to rice, Arabidopsis and soybean. The expression order of 5 low P tolerant genes in maize root was PAP, GCS, TOM, PDI and AIP. And it was considered preliminarily that physiological and biochemical changes were prior to morphologic changes in maize root and the essential tolerance to low P may be determined by extending absorption of P to wide soil range through adaption of root architecture and root secretions, which is the greatest difference between tolerant and sensitive maize varieties under low P stress.
21428427	The potential energy surface (PES) for the formation of C(4)H(4)(•+) from the pyridine radical cation by loss of HCN was determined from quantum chemical calculations using the G3//B3LYP method. The complete reaction pathways for the formation of the low-energy C(4)H(4)(•+) isomers, radical cations of methylenecyclopropene (MCP(•+)), vinylacteylene (VA(•+)), cyclobutadiene, and butatriene were obtained. Based on the PESs, a Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus model calculation was performed to investigate the dissociation kinetics. The calculated dissociation rate constants agreed with the previous experimental data. It was predicted that a mixture of MCP(•+) and VA(•+) was formed by loss of HCN. The formation of MCP(•+) was more favored near the dissociation threshold and at high energies, whereas the formation of VA(•+) was more favored at the low energies corresponding to the ion lifetime of microseconds.
2142851	Breath-hydrogen tests (BHTs) were performed on 310 Burmese village children aged 1-59 mo. After a 10-g lactulose test meal, 94 (30.3%) children produced less than 10 ppm H2 above basal values (nonhydrogen producers). Of 216 hydrogen producers, 210 were tested after a cooked rice meal (3 g cooked rice/kg body wt, equivalent to 1 g carbohydrate/kg body wt) with the BHT. Hydrogen peaks greater than or equal to 10 ppm above baseline concentrations were produced by 133 (66.5%) children who were defined as rice malabsorbers. Forty-three percent to 62% of children were less than or equal to -3 SD of the National Center of Health Statistics (NCHS) median weight-for-age and length-for-age and less than -2 SD of the NCHS median weight-for-length. There were no differences between rice absorbers (peak hydrogen less than 10 ppm above baseline) and rice malabsorbers in the allometric indices (the Ehrenberg index and the Dugdale index) of weight-for-length. Rice-carbohydrate malabsorption was also detected by BHTs in 26.7% of 86 school children (aged 5-15 y), 38.5% of 39 young adults (aged 15-39 y), and 50% of 34 older adults (aged 40-70 y).
2142852	Breath-hydrogen tests were performed after a rice meal (3 g cooked rice/kg body wt, equivalent to 1 g carbohydrate/kg body wt) at monthly intervals for 6 mo on 75 village children aged 1-59 mo who were known hydrogen producers. The overall rate for rice-carbohydrate malabsorption was 46.7% (range 37.3-56.0%). Anthropometric measurements were made every 3 mo and growth rates were calculated. Forty-six percent to 59% of children were less than or equal to -3 SD of the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) median weight-for-age and length-for-age and less than -2 SD of the NCHS median weight-for-length. Rice malabsorbers (ie, those with hydrogen peaks greater than or equal to 10 ppm above baseline concentrations) in the age groups 36-47 mo and 48-59 mo had statistically significant diminished growth expressed as percent gain in length per annum per child (p less than 0.02). Thus, rice malabsorbers had a deficit in linear growth of 2.7 cm/y (range 2.5-2.9 cm/y) for children aged 36-47 mo old and 1.9 cm/y (range 1.7-2.1 cm/y) for children aged 48-59 mo.
21429786	Food shortages have once again become a serious problem, not only because of world population growth but also as a result of escalating demand for crops as a substrate for biofuels. The production of improved plant varieties, especially major crops such as rice, is urgently required to increase yield. The completion of the sequencing of the rice genome has made it possible to clone and analyze quantitative trait loci (QTLs). Furthermore, the development of high-throughput sequencing and genotyping technologies has improved spectacularly the accuracy of QTL analysis. In this review article, we focus on the potential roles of major QTLs in the selection for agronomic traits in rice and discuss the application of high-throughput technologies for high-resolution genetic analysis.
2143016
21431812	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of environmental low-grade cadmium exposure on bone in the population of a non-polluted area. We investigated the relationship between environmental cadmium exposure (via rice intake) and bone metabolism in middle-aged and elderly women living in a non-polluted area in Japan. Four hundred and twenty-nine women over the age of 39 years (54.6 ± 9.1 years; arithmetic mean ± SD) participated in this study in 2003. We investigated blood and urine, and rice intake, and performed ultrasonic bone evaluation, and obtained individual information about the subjects' health. Multiple regression analysis was performed in the statistical analysis. The arithmetic mean of cadmium content in rice was 70.8 ± 44.7 μg/kg (AM ± SD). The geometric mean of daily cadmium intake (Cd intake) from rice calculated based on food consumption data was 9.12 μg/day (GSD 2.33). The geometric means of serum and urine cadmium concentrations were 1.57 μg/l (GSD 2.11) and 1.93 μg/g creatinine (cr.) (GSD 2.05), respectively. Multiple regression analysis showed positive correlations between (1) urinary free deoxypyridinoline (FDPD-U) and Cd intake (p < 0.05), (2) urinary cross-linked N-telopeptides of type I collagen (NTx-U) and Cd intake (p < 0.05), and (3) FDPD-U or NTx-U and cadmium concentration in urine (p < 0.01). No significant correlation between the parameters of ultrasonic bone evaluation and cadmium associated biomarkers was observed. The results of the present study suggest the possibility of bone metabolic disorder induced by environmental low-grade cadmium exposure. With respect to osteoporosis, a long-term follow-up survey is required to assess the tolerable intake of cadmium in environmental exposure.
21432145	The food consumption and serum nutritional status of people living in the Kathmandu valley, Nepal, were examined to obtain actual data for comparison with our previous findings. A dietary survey of 45 males and 60 females was carried out in March 1997 by the 24-hr dietary recall method and nutrient intake was calculated from food tables of India and Japan. Fasting venous blood samples were obtained and serum biochemical parameters were measured using clinical kits. The mean body mass index values was at about the same level in both sexes, although the mean percentage body fat of females was higher than that of males, and vice versa for packed red cell volume. The main foods consumed by both sexes, were rice, potatoes, meats, milk & dairy products and vegetables, with a difference in the amounts consumed. Females did not drink alcoholic beverages. The mean daily intakes of energy, protein, lipids, iron and vitamin B group for the males were higher than those for the females, while those of vitamins A and C for the males were lower than those for the females. The mean values of serum biochemical parameters for both sexes were generally at the normal levels, but those of ALT and TG were at the higher end of the normal range. Differences of correlation between food groups and between serum parameters were observed depending on the sex, however, no clear relationship between food and nutrient intake and serum biochemical parameters were observed. The present food intake study revealed that the amounts of food consumption for both sexes, especially for the females, were mostly insufficient although the serum parameters were at the normal levels. The energy intake of both sexes was lower than that of estimated requirements and those in Terai region. The relatively high serum TG level of the subjects may be due to the consumption of large amounts of cereals containing much carbohydrate. Our findings suggested a marked influence on food consumption by food price and income in spite of the easier food availability in the city, and also lack of knowledge about nutrients and health, thus there is need for improvement of the nutritional status of this group of people.
21432156	The aim of this study was to survey the prevalence of fascioliasis in slaughtered cattle in order to provide breeders with feedback which may prevent cattle fascioliasis, as well as human fascioliasis. The results of meat inspection and the information extracted from the Discriminative Data Base on Individual Livestock in Japan were analyzed statistically in 6,224 cattle slaughtered at the Tsuyama Abattoir during the fiscal year 2002. The age-adjusted fascioliasis and cholangitis rates of all cattle were 2.0% and 7.2%, respectively. When analyzed by cattle breed, both rates were significantly higher in Japanese native cattle than in Holstein or Jersey (Chi-square test, p<0.01). The cattle raised in Okayama Prefecture, Tochigi Prefecture and Shimane Prefecture were significantly different from cattle raised in other prefectures in the age-adjusted fascioliasis and cholangitis rates. The age-adjusted fascioliasis and cholangitis rates of all cattle can be considered as nationwide rates for slaughtered cattle. The results of the comparisons suggest that cattle fascioliasis is related to feeding with rice straw and that the measures to prevent cattle fascioliasis might differ a mong prefectural governments.
21432389	With the help of my colleagues, I have been conducting epidemiological studies on biliary tract cancer (BTC), including gallbladder cancer (GBC) and extrahepatic bile duct cancer (BDC), in Japan and Chile for about 19 years. Clustered areas with high mortality rates, especially for female GBC were found to correspond with places or prefectures in Japan that were famous for rice production. The roles of known risk factors, such as gallstones and cholecystitis, were examined, but no single factor was implicated in the high mortality rates for GBC in these areas. A working hypothesis, called the "rice production hypothesis" was formulated; this initial hypothesis was replaced by a new multifactorial causation hypothesis: GBC is more likely to occur in individuals with a genetic susceptibility and a past history of gallstones or cholecystitis who are exposed to geographically specific environmental factors, such as agricultural chemicals. On the basis of various analytical studies, it is concluded that a certain agricultural chemical was responsible for the occurrence of GBC. At the time of writing, no evidence has been obtained to disprove our hypothesis. We have also conducted international collaborative studies in Chile, which has the highest mortality rate for GBC in the world. Bile from Chileans was found to have a higher mutagenic activity than that from Japanese subjects; Chileans with a history of constipation or a habit of consuming red chilli pepper had a high risk of developing GBC, if they also had gallstone(s). The presence of a regional difference in p53 mutagenesis was also observed.
21433000	Rice is susceptible to cold stress and with a future of climatic instability we will be unable to produce enough rice to satisfy increasing demand. A thorough understanding of the molecular responses to thermal stress is imperative for engineering cultivars, which have greater resistance to low temperature stress. In this study we investigated the proteomic response of rice seedlings to 48, 72 and 96 h of cold stress at 12-14°C. The use of both label-free and iTRAQ approaches in the analysis of global protein expression enabled us to assess the complementarity of the two techniques for use in plant proteomics. The approaches yielded a similar biological response to cold stress despite a disparity in proteins identified. The label-free approach identified 236 cold-responsive proteins compared to 85 in iTRAQ results, with only 24 proteins in common. Functional analysis revealed differential expression of proteins involved in transport, photosynthesis, generation of precursor metabolites and energy; and, more specifically, histones and vitamin B biosynthetic proteins were observed to be affected by cold stress.
21433289	We have analyzed the dynamics of the rice etioplast membrane proteome during the early phase of de-etiolation using iTRAQ-based relative protein quantification. Several hundred plastid proteins were identified from enriched membranes, including 36 putative transporters. Hierarchical clustering revealed the coordinated light induction of thylakoid membrane proteins with proteins involved in translation and fatty acid metabolism. No other functional category of identified proteins showed a similarly consistent light induction, and no consistent changes were observed for the identified transporters. This suggests that the etioplast metabolism is already primed to accommodate the metabolic changes that occur during the onset of photosynthesis. This hypothesis was further tested in metabolite profiling experiments. Here, the changes upon illumination are mostly restricted to a decrease in the concentration of some amino acids and an increase in the concentrations of aspartic acid, malic acid, fumaric acid, and succinic acid. These changes are consistent with a rapid activation of photosynthesis and subsequent rapid production of storage carbohydrates and proteins. The information at the proteome level and the parallel measurements of metabolite accumulation both support the view that only minor metabolic network reconstruction and modification of enzyme levels occurs during the first 4 h of etioplast to chloroplast differentiation.
2143471	Suspension-cultured cells of rice secrete alpha-amylase into the culture medium. It has been shown that the mature form of the alpha-amylase contains xylose-bearing N-linked oligosaccharide: (formula; see text) We demonstrate that suspension-cultured cells of rice secrete alpha-amylase containing oligomannose-type oligosaccharides in the presence of 1-deoxymannojirimycin or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane. On the other hand, alpha-amylase purified from germinated rice seedlings contains several kinds of oligomannose-type and N-acetyllactosamine-type oligosaccharides. The processing pathway of oligosaccharide moieties in rice cells is discussed on the basis of a comparison of these oligosaccharides structures.
21434776	To elucidate whether a low methionine (Met)/glycine (Gly) ratio is responsible for the hypocholesterolemic effect of rice protein (RP), the effects of adding Met to RP, increasing its Met/Gly ratio, on hepatic cholesterol output was investigated in rats fed cholesterol-free diets. The hepatic secretion of cholesterol into bile or circulation was measured from isolated perfused livers of 7-week-old male Wistar rats fed RP (cultivar Koshihikari) with a lower Met/Gly ratio and methionine-supplemented RP with a higher Met/Gly ratio (RP-M) matched with casein (CAS). RP-M produced a significant hypocholesterolemic effect, whereas the effect of RP on plasma cholesterol level was comparable to that of CAS. Hepatic accumulation of total lipids, cholesterol, and phospholipids was higher in RP-M rats than in RP rats, again following a pattern similar to that in CAS rats. The hepatic total and very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)-cholesterol secretions into circulation were effectively decreased by RP, but not by RP-M. Bile flow and biliary outputs of bile acids, cholesterol, and phospholipids were significantly stimulated by RP-M, causing an increase in fecal sterol excretion compared with CAS and RP. Neither biliary output nor fecal excretion of bile acids was affected by RP compared with CAS. The present results demonstrate that the plasma cholesterol-lowering effect of RP cannot be merely ascribed to the low Met/Gly ratio of RP in growing rats fed cholesterol-free diets. Results suggest that the hypocholesterolemic response induced by RP-M with a higher Met/Gly ratio primarily contributes to the stimulation of hepatic cholesterol for elimination via biliary secretion rather than the inhibition of hepatic cholesterol release via VLDL into circulation.
21435721	The accumulation of cadmium (Cd) and its effects on antioxidant enzyme activities and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels of Chinese rice grasshopper (Oxya chinensis) were evaluated under the laboratory conditions. Our results showed that Cd accumulation in O. chinensis exhibited a concentration-dependent increase in both males and females under Cd pollution. Environmental Cd can lead to the absorption of large quantities of Cd, which induces oxidative damage in insects by altering antioxidant defense enzyme systems. Our results demonstrated that Cd stress caused a significant decrease in glutathione peroxidase (GPx) levels and a significant increase in superoxide (SOD) dismutase and catalase (CAT) activities. In the grasshoppers, the MDA content was also enhanced, with an increase in Cd concentrations and a positive correlation between them; for females from second instar nymphs to the adult stage, R(2) was 0.6467, 0.9136, 0.6516, 0.942 and 0.7182, whereas for males, it was 0.6467, 0.8239, 0.9302, 0.7861, 0.8632, respectively. We also observed differences in the effects of Cd between grasshoppers of different developmental stages and genders, which suggested that the insect's developmental stage and sex should be considered when studying enzyme activity.
21436381	Rice (Oryza sativa) endosperm has two isoamylase (ISA) oligomers, ISA1 homo-oligomer and ISA1-ISA2 hetero-oligomer. To examine their contribution to starch synthesis, expression of the ISA1 or ISA2 gene was differently regulated in various transgenic plants. Although suppression of ISA2 gene expression caused the endosperm to have only the homo-oligomer, no significant effects were detected on the starch phenotypes. In contrast, ISA2 overexpression led to endosperm having only the hetero-oligomer, and starch synthesis in the endosperm was drastically impaired, both quantitatively and qualitatively, because the starch was devoid of typical starch features, such as thermal and x-ray diffraction properties, and water-soluble highly branched maltodextrins were accumulated. In the ISA2 overexpressed line, about 60% to 70% of the ISA1-ISA2 hetero-oligomer was bound to starch, while the ISA homo- and hetero-oligomers from the wild type were mostly present in the soluble form at the early milking stage of the endosperm. Detailed analysis of the relative amounts of homo- and hetero-oligomers in various lines also led us to the conclusion that the ISA1 homo-oligomer is essential, but not the ISA1-ISA2 oligomer, for starch production in rice endosperm. The relative amounts of ISA1 and ISA2 proteins were shown to determine the ratio of both oligomers and the stoichiometry of both ISAs in the hetero-oligomer. It was noted when compared with the homo-oligomer that all the hetero-oligomers from rice endosperm and leaf and potato (Solanum tuberosum) tuber were much more stable at 40°C. This study provides substantial data on the structural and functional diversity of ISA oligomers between plant tissues and species.
21437642	Plants undergo an extensive change in gene regulation during abiotic stress. It is of great agricultural importance to know which genes are affected during stress response. The genome sequence of a number of plant species has been determined, among them Arabidopsis and Oryza sativa, whose genome has been annotated most completely as of yet, and are well-known organisms widely used as experimental systems. This paper applies a statistical algorithm for predicting new stress-induced motifs and genes by analyzing promoter sets co-regulated by abiotic stress in the previously mentioned two species. After identifying characteristic putative regulatory motif sequence pairs (dyads) in the promoters of 125 stress-regulated Arabidopsis genes and 87 O. sativa genes, these dyads were used to screen the entire Arabidopsis and O. sativa promoteromes to find related stress-induced genes whose promoters contained a large number of these dyads found by our algorithm. We were able to predict a number of putative dyads, characteristic of a large number of stress-regulated genes, some of them newly discovered by our algorithm and serve as putative transcription factor binding sites. Our new motif prediction algorithm comes complete with a stand-alone program. This algorithm may be used in motif discovery in the future in other species. The more than 1,200 Arabidopsis and 1,700 Orzya sativa genes found by our algorithm are good candidates for further experimental studies in abiotic stress.
21438497	A new liquid rice hull smoke extract with a smoky aroma and sugar-like odor prepared by pyrolysis of rice hulls followed by liquefaction of the resulting smoke contained 161 compounds characterized by GC/MS. Antioxidative, antiallergic, and anti-inflammatory activities of the extract were assessed in vitro and in vivo. At pH 5, the extract inhibited 1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) free radicals and suppressed nitric oxide (NO) and β-hexosaminidase releases from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW264.7 mouse macrophage leukemia cells and ionophore A23187-stimulated RBL-2H3 rat basophilic cells without significant cytotoxicity. 12-O-Tetradecanolylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) was applied to the ears of CD-1 mice to induce inflammation (edema), which was accompanied by increases in a series of biomarkers. Topical application of 1% of the extract as well as feeding mice a standard diet with 1% extract for two weeks significantly reduced the expression of biomarkers associated with the TPA-induced inflammation. These include tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), IL-1β, interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)), prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), myeloperoxidase (MPO). These in vitro and in vivo findings demonstrate the potential value of rice hull smoke extract derived from a major agricultural byproduct to serve as a new biomaterial for the improvement of food quality and safety and the environment.
21438705	Nutritional deficiencies of folate cause neural tube defects and several other diseases. The tri-enzyme method and microbiological assays were used to investigate folate variation in 78 rice germplasms. The effects of storage and cooking on folate content were also analyzed. Folate contents of brown rice varied substantially from 13.3 to 111.4 μg/100 g, whereas milled rice varied from 10.3 to 77.7 μg/100 g. Four cultivars from South China with high folate levels were identified in both sub-species. The average folate losses caused by storage and cooking were 23% and 48.3%, respectively. The highest folate content in cv. Laoshuya when cooked was 26.3 μg/100 g, about 25% of the recommended dietary intake (400 μg/day), assuming a daily per-capita consumption of 400 g/day cooked rice. The results suggested that it is potentially possible to screen for higher folate content varieties in germplasm and in breeding. It is also essential to develop new processing methods for maintaining higher folate contents in cooked rice.
21441340	This study aimed at investigating the antifungal activity of Wickerhamomyces anomalus and sourdough lactic acid bacteria to extend the shelf life of wheat flour bread. The antifungal activity was assayed by agar diffusion, growth rate inhibition, and conidial germination assays, using Penicillium roqueforti DPPMAF1 as the indicator fungus. Sourdough fermented by Lactobacillus plantarum 1A7 (S1A7) and dough fermented by W. anomalus LCF1695 (D1695) were selected and characterized. The water/salt-soluble extract of S1A7 was partially purified, and several novel antifungal peptides, encrypted into sequences of Oryza sativa proteins, were identified. The water/salt-soluble extract of D1695 contained ethanol and, especially, ethyl acetate as inhibitory compounds. As shown by growth inhibition assays, both water/salt-soluble extracts had a large inhibitory spectrum, with some differences, toward the most common fungi isolated from bakeries. Bread making at a pilot plant was carried out with S1A7, D1695, or a sourdough started with a combination of both strains (S1A7-1695). Slices of the bread manufactured with S1A7-1695 did not show contamination by fungi until 28 days of storage in polyethylene bags at room temperature, a level of protection comparable to that afforded by 0.3% (wt/wt) calcium propionate. The effect of sourdough fermentation with W. anomalus LCF1695 was also assessed based on rheology and sensory properties.
21441575	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a set of short (21-24 nt) non-coding RNAs that play significant roles as post-transcriptional regulators in animals and plants. While some existing methods use comparative genomic approaches to identify plant precursor miRNAs (pre-miRNAs), others are based on the complementarity characteristics between miRNAs and their target mRNAs sequences. However, they can only identify the homologous miRNAs or the limited complementary miRNAs. Furthermore, since the plant pre-miRNAs are quite different from the animal pre-miRNAs, all the ab initio methods for animals cannot be applied to plants. Therefore, it is essential to develop a method based on machine learning to classify real plant pre-miRNAs and pseudo genome hairpins. A novel classification method based on support vector machine (SVM) is proposed specifically for predicting plant pre-miRNAs. To make efficient prediction, we extract the pseudo hairpin sequences from the protein coding sequences of Arabidopsis thaliana and Glycine max, respectively. These pseudo pre-miRNAs are extracted in this study for the first time. A set of informative features are selected to improve the classification accuracy. The training samples are selected according to their distributions in the high-dimensional sample space. Our classifier PlantMiRNAPred achieves >90% accuracy on the plant datasets from eight plant species, including A.thaliana, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa, Physcomitrella patens, Medicago truncatula, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays and G.max. The superior performance of the proposed classifier can be attributed to the extracted plant pseudo pre-miRNAs, the selected training dataset and the carefully selected features. The ability of PlantMiRNAPred to discern real and pseudo pre-miRNAs provides a viable method for discovering new non-homologous plant pre-miRNAs.
21441731	We investigated whether a rice pad could be used to reduce the geometric distortion in echo-planar diffusion-weighted images of the cervical spinal cord. In 10 healthy volunteers, we obtained sagittal plane images using the same imaging parameters with and without a rice pad. Two reviewers classified geometric distortion and visually assessed images. Use of a rice pad significantly reduced geometric distortion in the cervical spinal cord.
21443008	Static chamber-GC technique was employed to study the effects of different treatment winter cover crops, including no-tillage and directly sowing ryegrass (T1), no-tillage and directly sowing Chinese milk vetch (T2), tillage and transplanting rape (T3), no-tillage and directly sowing rape (T4), and fallowing (CK), on the CH4 and N2O emission from double cropping rice paddy field. During the growth period of test winter cover crops, the CH4 and N2O emission in treatments T1-T4 was significantly higher than that in CK (P < 0.01). Treatments T1 and T3 not only had the largest CH4 emission (0.60 and 0.88 g x m(-2)), but also had the largest N2O emission (0.20 and 0.23 g x m(-2), respectively). After the winter cover crops returned to field, the CH4 emission from early and late rice fields in treatments T1, T2, T3, and T4 was larger than that in CK. In early rice field, treatments T1 and T2 had the largest CH4 emission (21.70 and 20.75 g x m(-2)); while in late rice field, treatments T3 and T4 had the largest one (58.90 and 54.51 g x m(-2) respectively). Treatments T1-T4 also had larger N2O emission from early and late rice fields than the CK did. The N2O emission from early rice field in treatments T1, T2, T3, and T4 was increased by 53.7%, 12.2%, 46.3%, and 29.3%, and that from late rice field in corresponding treatments was increased by 28.6%, 3.8%, 34.3%, and 27.6%, respectively, compared with CK.
21443009	This study intended to investigate the greenhouse gases emission from Japan single cropping paddy fields after 75-year continuous application of ammonium sulfate, composted rice straw with soybean cake, and fresh clover, as well as the environmental impact of the emission. During this long period, field management remained constant in terms of rice cultivation density, irrigation, and equivalent net N fertilization. No significant differences were observed in N2O emission among the fertilization treatments, but the CH4 emission differed significantly between organic amendment and ammonium sulfate application, indicating that long-term organic fertilization didn' t increase N2O emission but promoted CH4 emission. The cumulative global warming potential (GWP) of the CH4 and NO2O from the paddy ecosystem was the greatest (310.7 g CO2e x m(-2)) under fresh clover application, followed by composted rice straw plus soybean cake addition (151 g CO2e x m(-2)), and the least (60.6 g CO2e x m(-2)) under ammonium sulfate application. This study showed that for paddy system, it was CH4 instead of N2O the major factor affecting global warming, and thereby, to control and reduce the CH4 emission from paddy system would be the core in mitigating greenhouse gases emission from paddy field. Long-term consecutive application of composted rice straw plus soybean cake could increase soil organic matter, improve soil fertility, promote rice high-yielding, and as well, mitigate CH4 emission, being the recommendable paddy rice production mode in practice.
21443014	A comparative proteomics analysis was performed to identify the molecular response of a rice cultivar (Oryza sative cv. 'IRRI71331') with high phosphorous (P) uptake efficiency to low P stress. The hydroponically grown rice plants were provided with two levels of P (0.5 mg x L(-1) and 10 mg x L(-1)) supplied in quarter strength Kimura solution, and the root total proteins extracted on the 3rd and 6th day of treatments were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE). Comparing with the control (10 mg x L(-1) of P), a total of 29 protein spots under low P stress (0.5 mg x L(-1)) showed differences in their relative abundance, among which, 17 were higher, 11 were lower, and 1 was novel on the 3rd day, and 8 were induced, 19 were suppressed, 1 was disappeared, and 1 had no obvious change on the 6th day. Ten differentially expressed protein spots were identified by MALDI-TOF/MS, and searched in protein databases. According to the putative functions, the identified proteins were classified into four groups, i.e., signal transduction (glycine-rich RNA-binding protein, phosphate starvation response regulator-like), gene expression (putative pre-mRNA splicing factor, putative AAA-metalloprotease), metabolism (adenylosuccinate lyase, serpin, S-adenosylmethionine synthetase, MYB transcription factor-like protein), and ion transport (cation-transporting ATPase, sarcoplasmic reticulum protein). The identified proteins were involved in various physiological responses to enhance stress resistance, such as signal recognition and transduction, RNA cleavage, degradation of denatured protein, and ion transportation and cellular ion balance. The serine protease inhibitor and S-adenosylmethionine synthetase and the MYB transcription factor-like protein, which were the key proteins associated with P deficiency--tolerance of other species, were affected by the same stress for rice. The results indicated that the tolerance to low P stress was controlled by a complex signal transduction and metabolism regulation network in rice root system.
21443626	The expansion of gene families encoding regulatory proteins is typically associated with the increase in complexity characteristic of multi-cellular organisms. The MYB and basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) families provide excellent examples of how gene duplication and divergence within particular groups of transcription factors are associated with, if not driven by, the morphological and metabolic diversity that characterize the higher plants. These gene families expanded dramatically in higher plants; for example, there are approximately 339 and 162 MYB and bHLH genes, respectively, in Arabidopsis, and approximately 230 and 111, respectively, in rice. In contrast, the Chlamydomonas genome has only 38 MYB genes and eight bHLH genes. In this review, we compare the MYB and bHLH gene families from structural, evolutionary and functional perspectives. The knowledge acquired on the role of many of these factors in Arabidopsis provides an excellent reference to explore sequence-function relationships in crops and other plants. The physical interaction and regulatory synergy between particular sub-classes of MYB and bHLH factors is perhaps one of the best examples of combinatorial plant gene regulation. However, members of the MYB and bHLH families also interact with a number of other regulatory proteins, forming complexes that either activate or repress the expression of sets of target genes that are increasingly being identified through a diversity of high-throughput genomic approaches. The next few years are likely to witness an increasing understanding of the extent to which conserved transcription factors participate at similar positions in gene regulatory networks across plant species.
21443631	Glycosyltransferases (GTs) (EC 2.4.x.y) catalyze the transfer of sugar moieties to a wide range of acceptor molecules, such as sugars, lipids, proteins, nucleic acids, antibiotics and other small molecules, including plant secondary metabolites. These enzymes can be classified into at least 92 families, of which family 1 glycosyltransferases (GT1), often referred to as UDP glycosyltransferases (UGTs), is the largest in the plant kingdom. To understand how UGTs expanded in both number and function during evolution of land plants, we screened genome sequences from six plants (Physcomitrella patens, Selaginella moellendorffii, Populus trichocarpa, Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis thaliana and Arabidopsis lyrata) for the presence of a conserved UGT protein domain. Phylogenetic analyses of the UGT genes revealed a significant expansion of UGTs, with lineage specificity and a higher duplication rate in vascular plants after the divergence of Physcomitrella. The UGTs from the six species fell into 24 orthologous groups that contained genes derived from the common ancestor of these six species. Some orthologous groups contained multiple UGT families with known functions, suggesting that UGTs discriminate compounds as substrates in a lineage-specific manner. Orthologous groups containing only a single UGT family tend to play a crucial role in plants, suggesting that such UGT families may have not expanded because of evolutionary constraints.
21443632	Being by far the largest family of enzymes to support plant metabolism, the cytochrome P450s (CYPs) constitute an excellent reporter of metabolism architecture and evolution. The huge superfamily of CYPs found in angiosperms is built on the successful evolution of 11 ancestral genes, with very different fates and progenies. Essential functions in the production of structural components (membrane sterols), light harvesting (carotenoids) or hormone biosynthesis kept some of them under purifying selection, limiting duplication and sub/neofunctionalization. One group (the CYP71 clan) after an early trigger to diversification, has kept growing, producing bursts of gene duplications at an accelerated rate. The CYP71 clan now represents more than half of all CYPs in higher plants. Such bursts of gene duplication are likely to contribute to adaptation to specific niches and to speciation. They also occur, although with lower frequency, in gene families under purifying selection. The CYP complement (CYPomes) of rice and the model grass weed Brachypodium distachyon have been compared to view evolution in a narrower time window. The results show that evolution of new functions in plant metabolism is a very long-term process. Comparative analysis of the plant CYPomes provides information on the successive steps required for the evolution of land plants, and points to several cases of convergent evolution in plant metabolism. It constitutes a very useful tool for spotting essential functions in plant metabolism and to guide investigations on gene function.
21443693	• The hybrid sterility gene S5 comprises three types of alleles in cultivated rice. Such tri-allelic system provided a unique opportunity to study the molecular bases of evolutionary changes underlying reproductive isolation in plants. • We analysed the sequence diversity and evolutionary history of S5 in 138 Oryza accessions. We also examined the effect of the two functional variations (C819A and C1412T) in determining hybrid sterility by transformation. • Nineteen haplotypes were identified, which were classified into the indica-like, the japonica-like and the wide-compatibility gene (WCG)-like group, according to the sequence features of the tri-allelic system. The origin and evolutionary course of the three allelic groups were investigated, thus confirming the independent origins of indica and japonica subspecies. There were perfect associations between C819A and C1412T in the rice germplasm assayed, and the combination of C819 and C1412 was required for hybrid sterility. Evidence of positive selection in the WCG-like alleles suggested that they might have been favored by selection for higher compatibility in hybrids. • The complex evolution of S5 revealed the counteractive function of the three allelic groups at the species level. S5 might perform an important primary function in an evolutionary scale, and hybrid sterility acts as a 'byproduct' of this speciation gene.
21443807	Plant mitochondria, semiautonomous organelles that function as manufacturers of cellular ATP, have their own genome that has a slow rate of evolution and rapid rearrangement. Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS), a common phenotype in higher plants, is closely associated with rearrangements in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), and is widely used to produce F1 hybrid seeds in a variety of valuable crop species. Novel chimeric genes deduced from mtDNA rearrangements causing CMS have been identified in several plants, such as rice, sunflower, pepper, and rapeseed, but there are very few reports about mtDNA rearrangements in wheat. In the present work, we describe the mitochondrial genome of a wheat K-type CMS line and compare it with its maintainer line. The complete mtDNA sequence of a wheat K-type (with cytoplasm of Aegilops kotschyi) CMS line, Ks3, was assembled into a master circle (MC) molecule of 647,559 bp and found to harbor 34 known protein-coding genes, three rRNAs (18 S, 26 S, and 5 S rRNAs), and 16 different tRNAs. Compared to our previously published sequence of a K-type maintainer line, Km3, we detected Ks3-specific mtDNA (> 100 bp, 11.38%) and repeats (> 100 bp, 29 units) as well as genes that are unique to each line: rpl5 was missing in Ks3 and trnH was absent from Km3. We also defined 32 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 13 protein-coding, albeit functionally irrelevant, genes, and predicted 22 unique ORFs in Ks3, representing potential candidates for K-type CMS. All these sequence variations are candidates for involvement in CMS. A comparative analysis of the mtDNA of several angiosperms, including those from Ks3, Km3, rice, maize, Arabidopsis thaliana, and rapeseed, showed that non-coding sequences of higher plants had mostly divergent multiple reorganizations during the mtDNA evolution of higher plants. The complete mitochondrial genome of the wheat K-type CMS line Ks3 is very different from that of its maintainer line Km3, especially in non-coding sequences. Sequence rearrangement has produced novel chimeric ORFs, which may be candidate genes for CMS. Comparative analysis of several angiosperm mtDNAs indicated that non-coding sequences are the most frequently reorganized during mtDNA evolution in higher plants.
21444135	Agricultural residue burning is one of the major causes of greenhouse gas emissions and aerosols in the Indo-Ganges region. In this study, we characterize the fire intensity, seasonality, variability, fire radiative energy (FRE) and aerosol optical depth (AOD) variations during the agricultural residue burning season using MODIS data. Fire counts exhibited significant bi-modal activity, with peak occurrences during April-May and October-November corresponding to wheat and rice residue burning episodes. The FRE variations coincided with the amount of residues burnt. The mean AOD (2003-2008) was 0.60 with 0.87 (+1σ) and 0.32 (-1σ). The increased AOD during the winter coincided well with the fire counts during rice residue burning season. In contrast, the AOD-fire signal was weak during the summer wheat residue burning and attributed to dust and fossil fuel combustion. Our results highlight the need for 'full accounting of GHG's and aerosols', for addressing the air quality in the study area.
21444253	Plant hormones play crucial roles in plant growth and development. However, up to date, identification and quantification of acidic plant hormones with trace amount in complicated plant matrix is still a challenge. In current study, we developed a high sensitive assay for the determination of acidic plant hormones in rice by combining capillary electrophoresis and electrospray ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry (CE-ESI-TOF-MS). To improve the detection sensitivity of acidic plant hormones, 3-bromoactonyltrimethylammonium bromide (BTA) was synthesized as a new mass probe, which can react efficiently with acidic plant hormones in acetonitrile containing triethylamine (TEA). The positively charged BTA-derivatives were separated by CE using amino-coated capillary, which provided a reversed electroosmotic flow (EOF) at low pH, as well as reduced the adsorption of BTA-derivatives on the inner wall of capillary. Using the CE-ESI-TOF-MS method developed in current study, 15 acidic plant hormones, including 10 gibberellins (GAs), were identified and quantified with good linearities from 1.3 to 850 ng/mL with linear coefficient R(2) values of >0.99. The limits of detection (LODs) were in the range of 0.34-4.59 ng/mL. Recoveries of compounds from spiked beverage samples ranged from 84.6 to 112.2%. And a good reproducibility was obtained by evaluating the intra and inter-day precisions with relative standard deviations (RSDs) less than 6.7 and 9.9%, respectively.
21444336	The TCP family is an ancient group of plant developmental transcription factors that regulate cell division in vegetative and reproductive structures and are essential in the establishment of flower zygomorphy. In-depth research on eudicot TCPs has documented their evolutionary and developmental role. This has not happened to the same extent in monocots, although zygomorphy has been critical for the diversification of Orchidaceae and Poaceae, the largest families of this group. Investigating the evolution and function of TCP-like genes in a wider group of monocots requires a detailed phylogenetic analysis of all available sequence information and a system that facilitates comparing genetic and functional information. The phylogenetic relationships of TCP-like genes in monocots were investigated by analysing sequences from the genomes of Zea mays, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor, as well as EST data from several other monocot species. All available monocot TCP-like sequences are associated in 20 major groups with an average identity ≥64 % and most correspond to well-supported clades of the phylogeny. Their sequence motifs and relationships of orthology were documented and it was found that 67 % of the TCP-like genes of Sorghum, Oryza, Zea and Brachypodium are in microsyntenic regions. This analysis suggests that two rounds of whole genome duplication drove the expansion of TCP-like genes in these species. A system of classification is proposed where putative or recognized monocot TCP-like genes are assigned to a specific clade of PCF-, CIN- or CYC/tb1-like genes. Specific biases in sequence data of this family that must be tackled when studying its molecular evolution and phylogeny are documented. Finally, the significant retention of duplicated TCP genes from Zea mays is considered in the context of balanced gene drive.
21444646	Grass plants develop unique floral patterns that determine grain production. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the specification of floral organ identities and meristem determinacy, including the interaction among floral homeotic genes, remains largely unknown in grasses. Here, we report the interactions of rice (Oryza sativa) floral homeotic genes, OsMADS3 (a C-class gene), OsMADS13 (a D-class gene), and DROOPING LEAF (DL), in specifying floral organ identities and floral meristem determinacy. The interaction among these genes was revealed through the analysis of double mutants. osmads13-3 osmads3-4 displayed a loss of floral meristem determinacy and generated abundant carpelloid structures containing severe defective ovules in the flower center, which were not detectable in the single mutant. In addition, in situ hybridization and yeast two-hybrid analyses revealed that OsMADS13 and OsMADS3 did not regulate each other's transcription or interact at the protein level. This indicates that OsMADS3 plays a synergistic role with OsMADS13 in both ovule development and floral meristem termination. Strikingly, osmads3-4 dl-sup6 displayed a severe loss of floral meristem determinacy and produced supernumerary whorls of lodicule-like organs at the forth whorl, suggesting that OsMADS3 and DL synergistically terminate the floral meristem. Furthermore, the defects of osmads13-3 dl-sup6 flowers appeared identical to those of dl-sup6, and the OsMADS13 expression was undetectable in dl-sup6 flowers. These observations suggest that DL and OsMADS13 may function in the same pathway specifying the identity of carpel/ovule and floral meristem. Collectively, we propose a model to illustrate the role of OsMADS3, DL, and OsMADS13 in the specification of flower organ identity and meristem determinacy in rice.
21445363	Rice dwarf virus (RDV) is the causal agent of rice dwarf disease, which often results in severe yield losses of rice in East Asian countries. The disease symptoms are stunted growth, chlorotic specks on leaves, and delayed and incomplete panicle exsertion. Three RDV strains, O, D84, and S, were reported. RDV-S causes the most severe symptoms, whereas RDV-O causes the mildest. Twenty amino acid substitutions were found in 10 of 12 virus proteins among three RDV strains. We analyzed the gene expression of rice in response to infection with the three RDV strains using a 60-mer oligonucleotide microarray to examine the relationship between symptom severity and gene responses. The number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) upon the infection of RDV-O, -D84, and -S was 1985, 3782, and 6726, respectively, showing a correlation between the number of DEGs and symptom severity. Many DEGs were related to defense, stress response, and development and morphogenesis processes. For defense and stress response processes, gene silencing-related genes were activated by RDV infection and the degree of activation was similar among plants infected with the three RDV strains. Genes for hormone-regulated defense systems were also activated by RDV infection, and the degree of activation seemed to be correlated with the concentration of RDV in plants. Some development and morphogenesis processes were suppressed by RDV infection, but the degree of suppression was not correlated well with the RDV concentration. Gene responses to RDV infection were regulated differently depending on the gene groups regulated and the strains infecting. It seems that symptom severity is associated with the degree of gene response in defense-related and development- and morphogenesis-related processes. The titer levels of RDV in plants and the amino acid substitutions in RDV proteins could be involved in regulating such gene responses.
21445857	Contamination of agricultural soils with trace elements (TEs) through municipal and industrial wastes, atmospheric deposition and fertilisers is a matter of great global concern. Since TE accumulation in edible plant parts depends on soil characteristics, plant genotype and agricultural practices, those soil- and plant-specific options that restrict the entry of harmful TEs into the food chain to protect human and animal health are reviewed. Soil options such as in situ stabilisation of TEs in soils, changes in physicochemical parameters, fertiliser management, element interactions and agronomic practices reduce TE uptake by food crops. Furthermore, phytoremediation and solubilisation as alternative techniques to reduce TE concentrations in soils are also discussed. Among plant options, selection of species and cultivars, metabolic processes and microbial transformations in the rhizosphere can potentially affect TE uptake and distribution in plants. For this purpose, genetic variations are exploited to select cultivars with low uptake potential, especially low-cadmium accumulator wheat and rice cultivars. The microbial reduction of elements and transformations in the rhizosphere are other key players in the cycling of TEs that may offer the basis for a wide range of innovative biotechnological processes. It is thus concluded that appropriate combination of soil- and plant-specific options can minimise TE transfer to the food chain.
21445894	The genus Fusarium comprises a diverse group of fungi including several species that produce mycotoxins in food commodities. In the present study, a multiplex PCR was standardised for the group-specific detection of fumonisin-producing and trichothecene-producing strains of Fusarium species. Primers for genus-level recognition of Fusarium spp. were designed from the internal transcribed spacer regions 1 and 2 of rDNA. Primers for group-specific detection were designed from the tri5 and tri6 genes involved in trichothecene biosynthesis and the fum1 and fum13 genes involved in fumonisin biosynthesis. Among the various genera and their strains tested, all the 85 confirmed Fusarium strains were positive for rDNA gene and the rest stayed negative. From among the Fusarium strains, 15 had amplification for trichothecene- and 20 for fumonisin-encoding genes. All PCR positive trichothecene chemotypes of Fusarium species tested were positive for chemical analysis but in the case of fumonisins, of the 20 PCR positive cultures, only 13 showed positive for chemical analysis by HPTLC. The assay described here provided a rapid and reliable detection of trichothecene- and fumonisin-producing Fusarium directly from natural food grains and the results were always comparable with a conventional HPTLC detection method. It can, therefore, be used by the food industry to monitor quality and safety.
21445895	Inflammation is an independent risk factor of cardiovascular diseases and is associated with endothelial dysfunction. Monascus purpureus-fermented rice, containing naturally occurring statins and various pigments, has lipid-modulating, anti-inflammatory and antioxidative effects. The effects of monacolin K, ankaflavin and monascin, as metabolites from Monascus-fermented rice, on the expression of cell adhesion molecules (intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecular-1 (VCAM-1) and E-selectin) by tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-treated human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs) were investigated. Supplement of HAECs with these Monascus-fermented rice metabolites significantly suppressed cellular binding between the human monocytic cells U937 and TNF-α-stimulated HAECs. Immunoblot analysis showed that Monascus-fermented rice metabolites significantly attenuated TNF-α-induced VCAM-1 and E-selectin but not ICAM-1 protein expression. Gel shift assays showed that Monascus-fermented rice metabolites treatment reduced TNF-α-activated transcription factor nuclear factor (NF)-κB. Furthermore, Monascus-fermented rice metabolites also attenuated reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in vitro and in TNF-α-treated HAECs. Supplement with an ROS scavenger N-acetylcysteine gave similar results as compared with Monascus-fermented rice metabolites. Monascus-fermented rice metabolites reduced TNF-α-stimulated endothelial adhesiveness as well as downregulating intracellular ROS formation, NF-κB activation, and VCAM-1/E-selectin expression in HAECs, supporting the notion that the various metabolites from Monascus-fermented rice might have potential implications in clinical atherosclerosis disease.
21446152	Cholera is an acute intestinal infection which raged in India in the nineteenth century and it broke out in six great pandemics out in Europe. Cholera is caused by bacteria Vibrio cholerae, which produce an enterotoxin causing massive diarrhoea. There are two biotypes--classic and El Tor. The source of Vibrio cholerae is a man. Cholera is a typical faecally-oral infection. Ingested by contaminated water and food, Vibrio cholerae comes to the intestinal wall. The tightness is intermediated with toxin-coregulated pilus. There it produces enterotoxin and activates adenilate cyclase which accumulate intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate. The result is isotonic watery diarrhoea. Cholera can occur as asymptomatic infection, then enteritis and deathly classic cholera. Patients suffer from explosive, unremitting, watery diarrhoea (known as "rice water"). DIAGNOSIS AND DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS: The diagnosis is based on clinical features, epidemiological data and laboratory diagnostic methods. The most important is to isolate Vibrion cholerae from the stool. The most important treatment for cholera is fluid containing minerals. The best antibiotics available are tetracycline. The best preventive measures are water supply, sanitation, food safety and community awareness. The importance of vaccines comes second. CHOLERA NOWADAYS: Cholera has been known since ancient times, but it is present even nowadays. It has been developed as a biological weapon. Cholera is a dreadful intestinal disease with severe clinical features. One thing is known for certain: hygienic and sanitary measures are the main prevention.
21446157	Genetic diversity of 11 rice varieties of the Institute of rice UAAS was assessed using a set of 25 SSR loci. Based on analyses of 12 polymorphic microsatillite loci the procedures for composing genetic formulas of varieties and their identification have been elaborated. UPGMA-cluster-analysis based on genetic distance coefficients clearly separated all the varieties into two groups, and showed that the Ukrainian rice varieties are closely related. Although the genetic diversity was low, SSRs proved to be an efficient tool in assessing the genetic diversity of rice genotypes.
21447055	Panicle architecture is one of the most important agronomical traits that directly contribute to grain yield in rice (Oryza sativa L.). We report herein an in-depth characterization of two allelic larger panicle (lp) mutants that show significantly increased panicle size as well as improved plant architecture. Morphological analyses reveal that panicles of two mutants produced more inflorescence branches, especially the primary branches, and contained more grains. Moreover, mutant plants also display more lodging resistance than the wild type. The grain yield per plant in mutants is also increased, suggesting that mutant plants have useful potential for high grain yield in rice breeding. Map-based cloning reveals that LARGER PANICLE (LP) encodes a Kelch repeat-containing F-box protein. RNA in situ hybridization studies display that LP expression was enriched in the branch primordial region. Subcellular localization analyses demonstrate that LP is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) localized protein, suggesting that LP might be involved in ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD). Using yeast two-hybrid assay and bimolecular fluorescence complementation analysis, we confirm that LP is an F-box protein and could interact with rice SKP1-like protein in an F-box domain-dependent manner. Quantitative real-time PCR results show that OsCKX2, which encodes cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase, is down-regulated evidently in mutants, implying that LP might be involved in modulating cytokinin level in plant tissues. These results suggest that LP plays an important role in regulating plant architecture, particularly in regulating panicle architecture, thereby representing promising targets for genetic improvement of grain production plants.
21447056	This study tested the feasibility of oral immunotherapy for bronchial asthma using a newly developed subunit vaccine in which a fragment (p45-145) of mite allergen (Der p 1) containing immunodominant human and mouse T cell epitopes was encapsulated in endoplasmic reticulum-derived protein bodies of transgenic (Tg) rice seed. Allergen-specific serum immunoglobulin responses, T cell proliferation, Th1/Th2 cytokine production, airway inflammatory cell infiltration, bronchial hyper-responsiveness (BHR) and lung histology were investigated in allergen-immunized and -challenged mice. Prophylactic oral vaccination with the Tg rice seeds clearly reduced the serum levels of allergen-specific IgE and IgG. Allergen-induced CD4(+) T cell proliferation and production of Th2 cytokines in vitro, infiltration of eosinophils, neutrophils and mononuclear cells into the airways and BHR were also inhibited by oral vaccination. The effects of the vaccine were antigen-specific immune response because the levels of specific IgE and IgG in mice immunized with Der f 2 or ovalbumin were not significantly suppressed by oral vaccination with the Der p 1 expressing Tg rice. Thus, the vaccine does not induce nonspecific bystander suppression, which has been a problem with many oral tolerance regimens. These results suggest that our novel vaccine strategy is a promising approach for allergen-specific oral immunotherapy against allergic diseases including bronchial asthma.
21447150	In the contexts of genomics, post-genomics and systems biology approaches, data integration presents a major concern. Databases provide crucial solutions: they store, organize and allow information to be queried, they enhance the visibility of newly produced data by comparing them with previously published results, and facilitate the exploration and development of both existing hypotheses and new ideas. The FLAGdb++ information system was developed with the aim of using whole plant genomes as physical references in order to gather and merge available genomic data from in silico or experimental approaches. Available through a JAVA application, original interfaces and tools assist the functional study of plant genes by considering them in their specific context: chromosome, gene family, orthology group, co-expression cluster and functional network. FLAGdb++ is mainly dedicated to the exploration of large gene groups in order to decipher functional connections, to highlight shared or specific structural or functional features, and to facilitate translational tasks between plant species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa and Vitis vinifera). Combining original data with the output of experts and graphical displays that differ from classical plant genome browsers, FLAGdb++ presents a powerful complementary tool for exploring plant genomes and exploiting structural and functional resources, without the need for computer programming knowledge. First launched in 2002, a 15th version of FLAGdb++ is now available and comprises four model plant genomes and over eight million genomic features.
21447996	Auxin is an indispensable hormone throughout the lifetime of nearly all plant species. Several aspects of plant growth and development are rigidly governed by auxin, from micro to macro hierarchies; auxin also has a close relationship with plant-pathogen interactions. Undoubtedly, precise auxin levels are vitally important to plants, which have many effective mechanisms to maintain auxin homeostasis. One mechanism is conjugating amino acid to excessive indole-3-acetic acid (IAA; main form of auxin) through some GH3 family proteins to inactivate it. Our previous study demonstrated that GH3-2 mediated broad-spectrum resistance in rice (Oryza sativa L.) by suppressing pathogen-induced IAA accumulation and downregulating auxin signaling. Here, we further investigated the expression pattern of GH3-2 and other GH3 family paralogues in the life cycle of rice and presented the possible function of GH3-2 on rice root development by histochemical analysis of GH3-2 promoter:GUS reporter transgenic plants.
21448341	Various vaccine therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been investigated. Here we report transgenic rice expressing amyloid β-peptide (Aβ). The Aβ42 gene fused with a green fluorescent protein gene was introduced into rice using the Agrobacterium method. When transgenic brown rice expressing Aβ was orally administered to mice, serum anti-Aβ antibody titers were elevated. The same results were observed when mice were fed boiled, transgenic brown rice. The results indicate that an edible vaccine against AD using rice may be feasible. A vaccine derived from rice would be far cheaper than existing medical vaccines.
21449379	Bioactive compounds [ferulic acid (F), gamma-oryzanol (O) and phytic acid (P)] in rice bran have been widely used as antioxidants in skin care products. However, one of the major problems of antioxidants is the deterioration of their activities during long exposure to air and light. Niosomes have been used to entrap many degradable active agents not only for stability improvement, but also for increasing skin hydration. The objective of this study was to determine antioxidant activities [by in vitro ORAC (oxygen radical absorbance capacity) and ex vivo lipid peroxidation inhibition assay] and in vivo human skin hydration effects of gel and cream containing the rice bran extracts entrapped in niosomes. Gel and cream containing the rice bran extracts entrapped in niosomes showed higher antioxidant activity (ORAC value) at 20-28 micromol of Trolox equivalents (TE) per gram of the sample than the placebo gel and cream which gave 16-18 micromolTE/g. Human sebum treated with these formulations showed more lipid peroxidation inhibition activity than with no treatment of about 1.5 times. The three different independent techniques including corneometer, vapometer and confocal Raman microspectroscopy (CRM) indicated the same trend in human skin hydration enhancement of the gel or cream formulations containing the rice bran extracts entrapped in niosomes of about 20, 3 and 30%, respectively. This study has demonstrated the antioxidant activities and skin hydration enhancement of the rice bran bioactive compounds when entrapped in niosomes and incorporated in cream formulations.
21450055	The concurrent release of rice genome sequences for two subspecies (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica and Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica) facilitates rice studies at the whole genome level. Since the advent of high-throughput analysis, huge amounts of functional genomics data have been delivered rapidly, making an integrated online genome browser indispensable for scientists to visualize and analyze these data. Based on next-generation web technologies and high-throughput experimental data, we have developed Rice-Map, a novel genome browser for researchers to navigate, analyze and annotate rice genome interactively. More than one hundred annotation tracks (81 for japonica and 82 for indica) have been compiled and loaded into Rice-Map. These pre-computed annotations cover gene models, transcript evidences, expression profiling, epigenetic modifications, inter-species and intra-species homologies, genetic markers and other genomic features. In addition to these pre-computed tracks, registered users can interactively add comments and research notes to Rice-Map as User-Defined Annotation entries. By smoothly scrolling, dragging and zooming, users can browse various genomic features simultaneously at multiple scales. On-the-fly analysis for selected entries could be performed through dedicated bioinformatic analysis platforms such as WebLab and Galaxy. Furthermore, a BioMart-powered data warehouse "Rice Mart" is offered for advanced users to fetch bulk datasets based on complex criteria. Rice-Map delivers abundant up-to-date japonica and indica annotations, providing a valuable resource for both computational and bench biologists. Rice-Map is publicly accessible at http://www.ricemap.org/, with all data available for free downloading.
21451130	Women of reproductive age are at a high risk of iron deficiency, often as a result of diets low in bioavailable iron. In some settings, the iron content of domestic groundwater sources is high, yet its contribution to iron intake and status has not been examined. In a rural Bangladeshi population of women deficient in dietary iron, we evaluated the association between groundwater iron intake and iron status. In 2008, participants (n = 209 with complete data) were visited to collect data on 7-d food frequency, 7-d morbidity history, 24-h drinking water intake, and rice preparation, and to measure the groundwater iron concentration. Blood was collected to assess iron and infection status. Plasma ferritin (μg/L) and body iron (mg/kg) concentrations were [median (IQR)] 67 (46, 99) and 10.4 ± 2.6, respectively, and the prevalence of iron deficiency (ferritin < 12 μg/L) was 0%. Daily iron intake from water [42 mg (18, 71)] was positively correlated with plasma ferritin (r = 0.36) and total body iron (r = 0.35) (P < 0.001 for both). In adjusted linear regression analyses, plasma ferritin increased by 6.1% (95% CI: 3.8, 8.4%) and body iron by 0.3 mg/kg (0.2, 0.4) for every 10-mg increase in iron intake from water (P < 0.001). In this rural area of northern Bangladesh, women of reproductive age had no iron deficiency likely attributable to iron consumed from drinking groundwater, which contributed substantially to dietary intake. These findings suggest that iron intake from water should be included in dietary assessments in such settings.
21451245	Cleome viscosa L. (Capparidaceae) is well known for its medicinal properties. Lactam nonanoic acid (LNA) [2-amino-9-(4-oxoazetidin-2-yl)-nonanoic acid; C12H22N2O3, mol. wt. 242] has been isolated and purified from the root exudates of Cleome viscosa. The aqueous solution of this pure compound has been tested on bacteria (Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus) and fungi (Aspergillus fumigatus, A. niger and A. tamarii). At a dosage of 500 ppm and above, P. aeruginosa and S. aureus were totally inhibited while E. coli remained unaffected. On the other hand, growth of A. niger and A. tamarii was stimulated while there was no effect on A. fumigatus. This pure compound showed concentration-dependent inhibitory activity on rice, gram and mustard seeds.
21451246	The present study assessed the efficacy of a heat-inducible cre gene for conditional removal of the marker gene from a rice genome via Cre-lox recombination. A cre gene controlled by the soybean heat-shock promoter was introduced into the rice genome along with the recombination target (lox) construct. Cre-mediated recombination was expected to remove the marker gene and activate the promoter-less GUS gene. Six transgenic lines displayed well-regulated heat-inducible Cre activity in the callus. However, only one line that contained a single copy of the cre gene maintained this property in the regenerated plants and their progeny. Marker-free progeny were obtained from the plant that was heat-treated at the seedling stage, indicating the inheritance of the recombination 'footprint'. The presence of the 'footprint' was verified by polymerase chain reaction and Southern analysis. Therefore, the cre gene controlled by the soybean heat-shock promoter is an effective tool for conditional removal of the marker gene in rice.
21451255	Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) signalling cascades are activated by extracellular stimuli such as environmental stresses and pathogens in higher eukaryotic plants. To know more about MAPK signalling in plants, aMAPK cDNA clone, OsMAPK33, was isolated from rice. The gene is mainly induced by drought stress. In phylogenetic analysis, OsMAPK33 (Os02g0148100) showed approximately 47-93% identity at the amino acid level with other plant MAPKs. It was found to exhibit organ-specific expression with relatively higher expression in leaves as compared with roots or stems, and to exist as a single copy in the rice genome. To investigate the biological functions of OsMAPK33 in rice MAPK signalling, transgenic rice plants that either overexpressed or suppressed OsMAPK33 were made. Under dehydration conditions, the suppressed lines showed lower osmotic potential compared with that of wild-type plants, suggesting a role of OsMAPK33 in osmotic homeostasis. Nonetheless, the suppressed lines did not display any significant difference in drought tolerance compared with their wild-type plants. With increased salinity, there was still no difference in salt tolerance between OsMAPK33-suppressed lines and their wild-type plants. However, the overexpressing lines showed greater reduction in biomass accumulation and higher sodium uptake into cells, resulting in a lower K+/Na+ ratio inside the cell than that in the wild-type plants and OsMAPK33-suppressed lines. These results suggest that OsMAPK33 could play a negative role in salt tolerance through unfavourable ion homeostasis. Gene expression profiling of OsMAPK33 transgenic lines through rice DNA chip analysis showed that OsMAPK33 altered expression of genes involved in ion transport. Further characterization of downstream components will elucidate various biological functions of this novel rice MAPK.
21452335
21452587	A doubled haploid (DH) population, which consists of 120 lines derived from anther culture of a typical indica and japonica hybrid ‘CJ06’/‘TN1’, was used in this study. Ligule lengths of flag leaf were investigated for quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping using the DH population. Five QTLs (qLL-2, qLL-4, qLL-6, qLL-10 and qLL-12) controlling the ligule length (LL) were detected on chromosomes 2, 4, 6, 10 and 12, with the variances explained 11.4%, 13.6%, 27.8%, 22.1% and 11.0%, respectively. Using four known genes of ZmGL1, ZmGL2, ZmGL3 and ZmGL4 in maize from the MaizeGDB, their homologs in rice were aligned and integrated into the existing simple sequence repeats linkage map by in silico mapping. A ZmLG1 homolog gene, OsLG1 encoding a squamosa promoter binding protein, was located between the markers RM255 and RM280, which is just identical to the interval of qLL-4 on the long arm of chromosome 4. The results are beneficial to dissection of the ligule molecular mechanism and the study of cereal evolution.
21452591	A set of 148 F9 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) was developed from the cross of an indica cultivar 93-11 and japonica cultivar DT713, showing strong F1 heterosis. Subsequently, two backcross F1 (BCF1) populations were constructed by backcrossing these 148 RILs to two parents, 93-11 and DT713. These three related populations (281BCF1 lines, 148 RILs) were phenotyped for six yield-related traits in two locations. Significant inbreeding depression was detected in the population of RILS and a high level of heterosis was observed in the two BCF1 populations. A total of 42 main-effect quantitative trait loci (M-QTLs) and 109 epistatic effect QTL pairs (E-QTLs) were detected in the three related populations using the mixed model approach. By comparing the genetic effects of these QTLs detected in the RILs, BCF1 performance and mid-parental heterosis (HMP), we found that, in both BCF1 populations, the QTLs detected could be classified into two predominant types: additive and over-dominant loci, which indicated that the additive and over-dominant effect were more important than complete or partially dominance for M-QTLs and E-QTLs. Further, we found that the E-QTLs detected collectively explained a larger portion of the total phenotypic variation than the M-QTLs in both RILs and BCF1 populations. All of these results suggest that additive and over-dominance resulting from epistatic loci might be the primary genetic basis of heterosis in rice.
21452831	On the basis of the previous work for optimization of O,O-diethyl α-(substituted phenoxyacetoxy)alkylphosphonates, further extensive synthetic modifications were made to the substituents in alkylphosphonate and phenoxy moieties of the title compounds. New O,O-dimethyl α-(substituted phenoxyacetoxy)alkylphosphonates were synthesized as potential inhibitors of pyruvate dehydorogenase complex (PDHc). Their herbicidal activity and efficacy in vitro against PDHc were examined. Some of these compounds exhibited significant herbicidal activity and were demonstrated to be effective inhibitors of PDHc from three different plants. The structure-activity relationships of these compounds including previously reported analogous compounds were studied by examining their herbicidal activities. Both inhibitory potency against PDHc and herbicidal activity of title compounds could be increased greatly by optimizing substituent groups of the title compounds. O,O-Dimethyl α-(2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetoxy)ethylphosphonate (I-5), which acted as a competitive inhibitor of PDHc with much higher inhibitory potency against PDHc from Pisum sativum and Phaseolus radiatus than from Oryza sativa , was found to be the most effective compound against broadleaf weeds and showed potential utility as herbicide.
21453428	Burkholderia glumae causes bacterial panicle blight of rice, which is an increasingly important disease problem in global rice production. Toxoflavin and lipase are known to be major virulence factors of this pathogen, and their production is dependent on the TofI/TofR quorum-sensing system, which is mediated by N-octanoyl homoserine lactone. Flagellar biogenesis and a type III secretion system are also required for full virulence of B. glumae. Bacterial panicle blight is thought to be caused by seed-borne B. glumae; however, its disease cycle is not fully understood. In spite of its economic importance, neither effective control measures for bacterial panicle blight nor rice varieties showing complete resistance to the disease are currently available. A better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying B. glumae virulence and of the rice defence mechanisms against the pathogen would lead to the development of better methods of disease control for bacterial panicle blight. Bacteria; Proteobacteria; Betaproteobacteria; Burkholderiales; Burkholderiaceae; Burkholderia. Gram-negative, capsulated, motile, lophotrichous flagella, pectolytic. Aborted seed, empty grains as a result of failure of grain filling, brown spots on panicles, seedling rot. Seed sterilization, planting partially resistant lines (no completely resistant line is available). KNOWN VIRULENCE FACTORS: Toxoflavin, lipase, type III effectors.
21453553	Calculation of the root mean square deviation (RMSD) between the atomic coordinates of two optimally superposed structures is a basic component of structural comparison techniques. We describe a quaternion based method, GPU-Q-J, that is stable with single precision calculations and suitable for graphics processor units (GPUs). The application was implemented on an ATI 4770 graphics card in C/C++ and Brook+ in Linux where it was 260 to 760 times faster than existing unoptimized CPU methods. Source code is available from the Compbio website http://software.compbio.washington.edu/misc/downloads/st_gpu_fit/ or from the author LHH. The Nutritious Rice for the World Project (NRW) on World Community Grid predicted de novo, the structures of over 62,000 small proteins and protein domains returning a total of 10 billion candidate structures. Clustering ensembles of structures on this scale requires calculation of large similarity matrices consisting of RMSDs between each pair of structures in the set. As a real-world test, we calculated the matrices for 6 different ensembles from NRW. The GPU method was 260 times faster that the fastest existing CPU based method and over 500 times faster than the method that had been previously used. GPU-Q-J is a significant advance over previous CPU methods. It relieves a major bottleneck in the clustering of large numbers of structures for NRW. It also has applications in structure comparison methods that involve multiple superposition and RMSD determination steps, particularly when such methods are applied on a proteome and genome wide scale.
21454327	To investigate the hypothesis that workers who consume a predominantly rice-based, low-sodium diet and perform long periods of manual work in the heat are at risk of chronic hyponatraemia due to inadequate replacement of sweat sodium losses. Plasma sodium levels were assessed at the end of both the summer and winter periods in 44 male dockyard workers in the Middle East. The dietary intake of these workers was recorded and analysed by an Accredited Practicing Dietitian to determine average daily sodium intake. 55% of workers were found to be clinically hyponatraemic during the summer period compared with only 8% during the winter period. Assessment of the daily diet of workers in the labour camp revealed it to be predominantly starch based with low total sodium content. The majority of the fluids provided to workers are also low in sodium content. Manual labourers working in the heat and eating a low-sodium starch-based diet are at risk of chronic hyponatraemia. Increasing the sodium content of fluid and food provided to workers is warranted and may reduce the incidence of work-related illness and accidents in this population. The results of this study identify a need for sodium replacement guidelines specific for prolonged work in the heat to be developed.
21454799	A novel imaging and software platform was developed for the high-throughput phenotyping of three-dimensional root traits during seedling development. To demonstrate the platform's capacity, plants of two rice (Oryza sativa) genotypes, Azucena and IR64, were grown in a transparent gellan gum system and imaged daily for 10 d. Rotational image sequences consisting of 40 two-dimensional images were captured using an optically corrected digital imaging system. Three-dimensional root reconstructions were generated and analyzed using a custom-designed software, RootReader3D. Using the automated and interactive capabilities of RootReader3D, five rice root types were classified and 27 phenotypic root traits were measured to characterize these two genotypes. Where possible, measurements from the three-dimensional platform were validated and were highly correlated with conventional two-dimensional measurements. When comparing gellan gum-grown plants with those grown under hydroponic and sand culture, significant differences were detected in morphological root traits (P < 0.05). This highly flexible platform provides the capacity to measure root traits with a high degree of spatial and temporal resolution and will facilitate novel investigations into the development of entire root systems or selected components of root systems. In combination with the extensive genetic resources that are now available, this platform will be a powerful resource to further explore the molecular and genetic determinants of root system architecture.
2145503	Field trials of R. iyengari and R. culicivorax in the biological control for the mosquito larvae were conducted in Parkhar, Kuibyshevsk, Gissar districts and the outskirts of the city of Dushanbe, the Tadjik SSR. Larvae of Anopheles superpictus, An. pulcherrimus and An. hyrcanus in a dosage of 1-5 thousand intact larvae per sq. m were invaded by mermithids. The mean infection rate was 46 per cent. The maximum infection rate was 98 per cent. It depended on several factors: the dosage of intact larvae, temperature, water salinity, water flowage in the waterbodies and their overgrowth with plants. Slow-flowed rice paddies and flow-free fresh waterbodies turned to be the proper sites for mermithids. The effect was higher in Anopheles than in Culex mosquitos.
21455044	Twelve percent of people worldwide report suffering from self-defined constipation. Women experience constipation three times more than men. Many people have used complementary and alternative medicine for constipation, but there is no qualitative research about this issue. The purpose of this article was to describe Korean women's experience of treating chronic constipation with complementary and alternative medicine. A qualitative descriptive approach used in-depth, semistructured interviews with 10 Korean women in the United States who had constipation. Four themes were identified: (1) subjective definition of constipation; (2) efforts to find the reason for constipation; (3) efforts to find solutions for constipation (subtheme: frequent use of enemas, laxatives, and suppositories; expectation and disappointment for complementary and alternative medicine; finding individually effective solutions for constipation); and (4) negative impact on quality of life (subtheme: mental discomfort, changed appetite, and difficult relationships with people).Ten women reported that they had used exercise, massage, yogurt, vegetables, seeds of tangles (seaweed), mineral oil, milk with plums, mixed rice, walnuts, grapefruits, apples, oranges, aloe, oatmeal, soymilk, sweet potatoes, ground flax seed, and alcohol as a strategy for relieving constipation. Participants had also used herbs, acupuncture, acupressure, moxibustion, cupping therapy, hand acupuncture, senna tea, and soy bean past fomentation. In conclusion, living with constipation is an irritable and uncomfortable experience, and it motivated these women to select a variety of methods to reduce constipation.
21455595	A new gene, RuCelA, encoding a bifunctional xylanase/endoglucanase, was cloned from a metagenomic library of yak rumen microorganisms. RuCelA showed activity against xylan and carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), suggesting bifunctional xylanase/endoglucanase activity. The optimal conditions for xylanase and endoglucanase activities were 65°C, pH 7.0 and 50°C, pH 5.0, respectively. In addition, the presence of Co(+) and Co(2+) can greatly improve RuCelA's endoglucanase activity, while inhibits its xylanase activity. Further examination of substrate preference showed a higher activity against barley glucan and lichenin than against xylan and CMC. Using xylan and barley glucan as substrates, RuCelA displayed obvious synergistic effects with β-1,4-xylosidase and β-1,4-glucosidase. Generation of soluble oligosaccharides from lignocellulose is the key step in bioethanol production, and it is greatly notable that RuCelA can produce xylo-oligosaccharides and cello-oligosaccharides in the continuous saccharification of pretreated rice straw, which can be further degraded into fermentable sugars. Therefore, the bifunctional RuCelA distinguishes itself as an ideal candidate for industrial applications.
21456058	The present study evaluated the anticomplement effects of isolated compounds from black coloured rice bran in the classical pathway of the complement system. Using column chromatography, three compounds: oryzafuran, quercetin and protocatechuic acid, were isolated and evaluated for in vitro anticomplement activity. Oryzafuran showed the most potent inhibitory activity against the complement system, with 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) values of 126.2 µg/mL. This is the first report of anticomplement activity of isolated compounds from black coloured rice bran.
21456176	The physical adsorption of nitrogen and gas flow experiments on the silica layer in rice husk indicated that an existence of nano meter sized through holes. In this study, the external shape of the holes on the cross section of the layer was investigated with a scanning electron microscope equipped with an energy dispersive spectrometer, an atomic force microscope and scanning tunneling microscope. In the energy dispersive mapping image, 2-5 micron thick silica layer under outer cellulose layer, silica nano particles in the middle cellulose layer and sub micron silica layer in inner cellulose layer were observed. The cross section of the layer showed 20 nm building units with approximately 100 nm convexities. The atomic force microscopic image also showed the approximately 100 nm convexities as well as a roughness of approximately 20 nm. When osmium was coated on the silica layer, the wells with 2 approximately 5 nm horizontal and approximately 2 nm vertical lengths were observed on the plate surface in scanning tunneling microscopic image. From the results, it was suggested that the holes in the rice husk silica layer are almost straight and not zigzag spaces originated from the simple packing of nano particles.
21456578	Thioredoxin and thioredoxin reductase can regulate cell metabolism through redox regulation of disulfide bridges or through removal of H(2)O(2). These two enzymatic functions are combined in NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase C (NTRC), which contains an N-terminal thioredoxin reductase domain fused with a C-terminal thioredoxin domain. Rice NTRC exists in different oligomeric states, depending on the absence or presence of its NADPH cofactor. It has been suggested that the different oligomeric states may have diverse activity. Thus, the redox status of the chloroplast could influence the oligomeric state of NTRC and thereby its activity. We have characterized the oligomeric states of NTRC from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). This also includes a structural model of the tetrameric NTRC derived from cryo-electron microscopy and single-particle reconstruction. We conclude that the tetrameric NTRC is a dimeric arrangement of two NTRC homodimers. Unlike that of rice NTRC, the quaternary structure of barley NTRC complexes is unaffected by addition of NADPH. The activity of NTRC was tested with two different enzyme assays. The N-terminal part of NTRC was tested in a thioredoxin reductase assay. A peroxide sensitive Mg-protoporphyrin IX monomethyl ester (MPE) cyclase enzyme system of the chlorophyll biosynthetic pathway was used to test the catalytic ability of both the N- and C-terminal parts of NTRC. The different oligomeric assembly states do not exhibit significantly different activities. Thus, it appears that the activities are independent of the oligomeric state of barley NTRC.
21456675	The structural relaxation of crystalline nitromethane initially at T = 200 K subjected to moderate (~15 GPa) supported shocks on the (100), (010), and (001) crystal planes has been studied using microcanonical molecular dynamics with the nonreactive Sorescu-Rice-Thompson force field [D. C. Sorescu, B. M. Rice, and D. L. Thompson, J. Phys. Chem. B 104, 8406 (2000)]. The responses to the shocks were determined by monitoring the mass density, the intermolecular, intramolecular, and total temperatures (average kinetic energies), the partitioning of total kinetic energy among Cartesian directions, the radial distribution functions for directions perpendicular to those of shock propagation, the mean-square displacements in directions perpendicular to those of shock propagation, and the time dependence of molecular rotational relaxation as a function of time. The results show that the mechanical response of crystalline nitromethane strongly depends on the orientation of the shock wave. Shocks propagating along [100] and [001] result in translational disordering in some crystal planes but not in others, a phenomenon that we refer to as plane-specific disordering; whereas for [010] the shock-induced stresses are relieved by a complicated structural rearrangement that leads to a paracrystalline structure. The plane-specific translational disordering is more complete by the end of the simulations (~6 ps) for shock propagation along [001] than along [100]. Transient excitation of the intermolecular degrees of freedom occurs in the immediate vicinity of the shock front for all three orientations; the effect is most pronounced for the [010] shock. In all three cases excitation of molecular vibrations occurs more slowly than the intermolecular excitation. The intermolecular and intramolecular temperatures are nearly equal by the end of the simulations, with 400-500 K of net shock heating. Results for two-dimensional mean-square molecular center-of-mass displacements, calculated as a function of time since shock wave passage in planes perpendicular to the direction of shock propagation, show that the molecular translational mobility in the picoseconds following shock wave passage is greatest for [001] and least for the [010] case. In all cases the root-mean-square center-of-mass displacement is small compared to the molecular diameter of nitromethane on the time scale of the simulations. The calculated time scales for the approach to thermal equilibrium are generally consistent with the predictions of a recent theoretical analysis due to Hooper [J. Chem. Phys. 132, 014507 (2010)].
21457373	The rice gene ELONGATED UPPERMOST INTERNODE1 (EUI1) encodes a P450 monooxygenase that epoxidizes gibberellins (GAs) in a deactivation reaction. The Arabidopsis genome contains a tandemly duplicated gene pair ELA1 (CYP714A1) and ELA2 (CYP714A2) that encode EUI homologs. In this work, we dissected the functions of the two proteins. ELA1 and ELA2 exhibited overlapping yet distinct gene expression patterns. We showed that while single mutants of ELA1 or ELA2 exhibited no obvious morphological phenotype, simultaneous elimination of ELA1 and ELA2 expression in ELA1-RNAi/ela2 resulted in increased biomass and enlarged organs. By contrast, transgenic plants constitutively expressing either ELA1 or ELA2 were dwarfed, similar to those overexpressing the rice EUI gene. We also discovered that overexpression of ELA1 resulted in a severe dwarf phenotype, while overexpression of ELA2 gave rise to a breeding-favored semi-dwarf phenotype in rice. Consistent with the phenotypes, we found that the ELA1-RNAi/ela2 plants increased amounts of biologically active GAs that were decreased in the internodes of transgenic rice with ELA1 and ELA2 overexpression. In contrast, the precursor GA(12) slightly accumulated in the transgenic rice, and GA(19) highly accumulated in the ELA2 overexpression rice. Taken together, our study strongly suggests that the two Arabidopsis EUI homologs subtly regulate plant growth most likely through catalyzing deactivation of bioactive GAs similar to rice EUI. The two P450s may also function in early stages of the GA biosynthetic pathway. Our results also suggest that ELA2 could be an excellent tool for molecular breeding for high yield potential in cereal crops.
21457711	Based on our microarray-analysis results of the salt tolerant wheat mutant, RH8706-49, an unknown salt-induced gene containing a conserved DUF662 domain was identified and cloned; we named this gene TaSRG (Triticum aestivum Salt Response Gene). Real-time quantitative PCR analyses showed that the expression of this gene was affected by salt, drought, cold, ABA and other stress conditions. The overexpression of TaSRG in wild-type Arabidopsis resulted in increased salt tolerance compared with wild-type plants. In addition, subcellular localisation revealed that TaSRG encodes a protein that was found mainly in the nucleus. Our results suggest that wheat TaSRG might encode a transcription factor that could be utilised for enhancing stress tolerance in a wide range of plants.
21458027	PM emission factors (EFs) for gasoline- and diesel-fueled vehicles and biomass combustion were measured in several recent studies. In the Gas/Diesel Split Study (GD-Split), PM(2.5) EFs for heavy-duty diesel vehicles (HDDV) ranged from 0.2 to ~2 g/mile and increased with vehicle age. EFs for HDDV estimated with the U.S. EPA MOBILE 6.2 and California Air Resources Board (ARB) EMFAC2007 models correlated well with measured values. PM(2.5) EFs measured for gasoline vehicles were ~two orders of magnitude lower than those for HDDV and did not correlate with model estimates. In the Kansas City Study, PM(2.5) EFs for gasoline-powered vehicles (e.g., passenger cars and light trucks) were generally <0.03 g/mile and were higher in winter than summer. EMFAC2007 reported higher PM(2.5) EFs than MOBILE 6.2 during winter, but not during summer, and neither model captured the variability of the measured EFs. Total PM EFs for heavy-duty diesel military vehicles ranged from 0.18±0.03 and 1.20±0.12 g/kg fuel, corresponding to 0.3 and 2 g/mile, respectively. These values are comparable to those of on-road HDDV. EFs for biomass burning measured during the Fire Laboratory at Missoula Experiment (FLAME) were compared with EFs from the ARB Emission Estimation System (EES) model. The highest PM(2.5) EFs (76.8±37.5 g/kg) were measured for wet (>50% moisture content) Ponderosa Pine needles. EFs were generally <20 g/kg when moisture content was <20%. The EES model agreed with measured EFs for fuels with low moisture content but underestimated measured EFs for fuel with moisture content >40%. Average EFs for dry chamise, rice straw, and dry grass were within a factor of three of values adopted by ARB in California's San Joaquin Valley (SJV). Discrepancies between measured and modeled emission factors suggest that there may be important uncertainties in current PM(2.5) emission inventories.
21458283	Experiments were conducted to investigate the role of a newly isolated endophytic fungus GMC-2A on physiology of host plant (Glycine max. L cv. Hwangkeum-kong) growing under salinity stress. GMC-2A was identified as a new strain of Penicillium funiculosum on the basis of sequence homology and phylogenetic analysis of D1/D2 regions of 28S rDNA. Preliminary screening experiment showed that the culture filtrate (CF) of GMC-2A promoted the growth of Waito-C, a dwarf gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis mutant rice cultivar. Analysis of fungal CF revealed the presence of GAs (GA₁ 1.53 ng/ml; GA₄ 9.34 ng/ml; GA₈ 1.21 ng/ml; GA₉ 37.87 ng/ml) and indole acetic acid (14.85 μg/ml). GMC-2A also showed high phosphate solubilization of tricalcium phosphate. Besides that, GMC-2A application enhanced soybean seed germination as compared to control. Under salinity stress (70 and 140 mM), GMC-2A significantly promoted the soybean growth attributes (shoot length, shoot fresh/dry biomass, chlorophyll content, photosynthesis rate and leaf area) in comparison to control treatments. We also observed low endogenous abscisic acid and elevated jasmonic acid contents in GMC-2A treated plants under salt stress. GMC-2A treatment significantly enhanced levels of isoflavones (34.22% and 75.37%) under salinity stress as compared to control. In conclusion, P. funiculosum LHL06 has significantly ameliorated the adverse effects of salinity induced abiotic stress, and re-programmed soybean to higher growth and isoflavone biosynthesis.
21458359	Members of the kingdom fungi comprise numerous plant pathogens, including the causal agents of many agriculturally relevant plant diseases such as rust, powdery mildew, rice blast and cereal head blight. Data from recent sequencing projects provide deep insight into the genomes of a range of fungi that infect different organs of monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous hosts and that have diverse pathogenic lifestyles. These studies have revealed that, similar to sequenced phytopathogenic oomycetes, these plant parasites possess very plastic and dynamic genomes, which typically encode several hundred candidate secreted effector proteins that can be highly divergent even among related species. A new insight is the presence of lineage-specific genes on mobile and partly dispensable chromosomes that are transferred intraspecifically and possibly interspecifically, thereby constituting pathogenicity and host range determinants. Convergent lifestyle-specific adaptations have shaped the parasite genomes to maximize pathogenic success according to the different infection strategies employed.
21458419	Proteomic analysis of a rice callus led to the identification of 10 abscisic acid (ABA)-induced proteins as putative products of the embryo-specific promoter candidates. 5'-flanking sequence of 1 Cys-Prx, a highly-induced protein gene, was cloned and analyzed. The transcription initiation site of 1 Cys-Prx maps 96 nucleotides upstream of the translation initiation codon and a TATA-box and putative seed-specific cis-acting elements, RYE and ABRE, are located 26, 115 and 124 bp upstream of the transcription site, respectively. β-glucuronidase (GUS) expression driven by the 1 Cys-Prx promoters was strong in the embryo and aleurone layer and the activity reached up to 24.9 ± 3.3 and 40.5 ± 2.1 pmol (4 MU/min/μg protein) in transgenic rice seeds and calluses, respectively. The activity of the 1 Cys-Prx promoters is much higher than that of the previously-identified embryo-specific promoters, and comparable to that of strong endosperm-specific promoters in rice. GUS expression driven by the 1 Cys-Prx promoters has been increased by ABA treatment and rapidly induced by wounding in callus and at the leaf of the transgenic plants, respectively. Furthermore, ectopic expression of the GUS construct in Arabidopsis suggested that the 1 Cys-Prx promoter also has strong activity in seeds of dicot plants.
21459393	To investigate the regulation of sulphur (S)-assimilation in onion further at the biochemical level, the pungent cultivar W202A and the milder cultivar Texas Grano 438 PVP (TG) have been grown in S-sufficient (S(+); 4meqS(-1)) or S-deficient (S(-); 0.1meqS(-1)) growth conditions, and tissues excised at the seedling stage (pre-bulbing; ca. 10-weeks-old) and at the mature stage (bulbing; ca. 16-weeks-old). S-supply negatively influenced adenosine-5'-phosphosulphate (APS) reductase (APR) enzyme activity in both cultivars at bulbing only, and a higher abundance of APR was observed in both cultivars at bulbing in response to low S-supply. In contrast, S-supply significantly influenced ATP sulphurylase (ATPS) activity in leaf tissues of W202A only, and only at bulbing, while an increase in abundance in response to high S-supply was observed for both cultivars at bulbing. To investigate the regulation of the ATPS enzyme activity and accumulation further, activity was shown to decrease significantly in roots at bulbing in the S-deficient treatment in both cultivars, a difference that was only supported by western analyses in W202A. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that AcATPS1 groups in a broad monocot clade with the closest sequences identified in Sorghum bicolour, Zea mays and Oryza sativa, but with some support for a divergence of AcATPS1. Detection of ATPS in leaf extracts after two dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) revealed that the protein may undergo post-translational modification with a differential pattern of ATPS accumulation detected in both cultivars over the developmental progression from the seedling to the bulbing stage. Treatment of leaf extracts of W202A to dephosphorylate proteins resulted in the loss of immuno-recognised ATPS spots after 2-DE separation, although enzyme activity was not influenced. These results are discussed in terms of the tiers of control that operate at the biochemical level in the reductive S-assimilation pathway in a S-accumulating species particularly during the high-S-demanding bulbing stage.
21459764	The transfer of C(4) plant traits into C(3) plants has long been a strategy for improving the photosynthetic performance of C(3) plants. The introduction of a pathway mimicking the C(4) photosynthetic pathway into the mesophyll cells of C(3) plants was only a realistic approach when transgenic technology was sufficiently well developed and widely adopted. Here an attempt to introduce a single-cell C(4)-like pathway in which CO(2) capture and release occur in the mesophyll cell, such as the one found in the aquatic plant Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle, into rice (Oryza sativa L.) is described. Four enzymes involved in this pathway were successfully overproduced in the transgenic rice leaves, and 12 different sets of transgenic rice that overproduce these enzymes independently or in combination were produced and analysed. Although none of these transformants has yet shown dramatic improvements in photosynthesis, these studies nonetheless have important implications for the evolution of C(4) photosynthetic genes and their metabolic regulation, and have shed light on the unique aspects of rice physiology and metabolism. This article summarizes the lessons learned during these attempts to engineer single-cell C(4) rice.
21459770	Later-flowering spikelets in a rice panicle, referred to as the inferior spikelets, are usually poorly filled and often limit the yield potential of some rice cultivars. The physiological and molecular mechanism for such poor grain filling remains unclear. In this study the differentially expressed genes in starch synthesis and hormone signalling between inferior and superior spikelets were comprehensively analysed and their relationships with grain filling was investigated. DNA microarray and real-time PCR analysis revealed that a group of starch metabolism-related genes showed enhanced expression profiles and had higher transcript levels in superior spikelets than in inferior ones at the early and middle grain-filling stages. Expression of the abscisic acid (ABA) synthesis genes, 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase 1 (NCED1) and NCED5, and the ethylene synthesis genes, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidase 1 (ACO1) and ACO3, declined with development of the caryopses. Meanwhile, if compared with inferior spikelets, expression of these genes in superior spikelets decreased faster and had lower transcript profiles, especially for ethylene. ABA concentration and ethylene evolution rate showed similar trends to their gene expression. Exogenous supply of ABA reduced the sucrose synthase (SUS) mRNA level and its enzyme activity in detached rice grains, while exogenously supplied ethephon (an ethylene-releasing reagent) suppressed the expression of most starch synthesis genes; that is, SUS, ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), and soluble starch synthase (SSS), and down-regulated their enzyme activities. In summary, it is concluded that the relatively high concentrations of ethylene and ABA in inferior spikelets suppress the expression of starch synthesis genes and their enzyme activities and consequently lead to a low grain-filling rate.
21459832	NAC proteins are plant-specific transcription factors and enriched with members involved in plant response to drought stress. In this study, we analyzed the expression profiles of TaNAC69 in bread wheat using Affymetrix Wheat Genome Array datasets and quantitative RT-PCR. TaNAC69 expression was positively associated with wheat responses to both abiotic and biotic stresses and was closely correlated with a number of stress up-regulated genes. The functional analyses of TaNAC69 in transgenic wheat showed that TaNAC69 driven by a barley drought-inducible HvDhn4s promoter led to marked drought-inducible overexpression of TaNAC69 in the leaves and roots of transgenic lines. The HvDhn4s:TaNAC69 transgenic lines produced more shoot biomass under combined mild salt stress and water-limitation conditions, had longer root and more root biomass under polyethylene glycol-induced dehydration. Analysis of transgenic lines with constitutive overexpression of TaNAC69 showed the enhanced expression levels of several stress up-regulated genes. DNA-binding assays revealed that TaNAC69 and its rice homolog (ONAC131) were capable of binding to the promoter elements of three rice genes (chitinase, ZIM, and glyoxalase I) and an Arabidopsis glyoxalase I family gene, which are homologs of TaNAC69 up-regulated stress genes. These data suggest that TaNAC69 is involved in regulating stress up-regulated genes and wheat adaptation to drought stress.
21460234	Rice Hoja Blanca Tenuivirus (RHBV), a negative strand RNA virus, has been identified to infect rice and is widely transmitted by the insect vector. NS3 protein encoded by RHBV RNA3 was reported to be a potent RNAi suppressor to counterdefense RNA silencing in plants, insect cells, and mammalian cells. Here, we report the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of RHBV NS3 (residues 21-114) at 2.0 Å. RHBV NS3 N-terminal domain forms a dimer by two pairs of α-helices in an anti-parallel mode, with one surface harboring a shallow groove at the dimension of 20 Å × 30 Å for putative dsRNA binding. In vitro RNA binding assay and RNA silencing suppression assay have demonstrated that the structural conserved residues located along this shallow groove, such as Arg50, His51, Lys77, and His85, participate in dsRNA binding and RNA silencing suppression. Our results provide the initial structural implications in understanding the RNAi suppression mechanism by RHBV NS3.
21461161	India, a land of agriculture, has formed the scaffolding for many agro-based industries. Morbidity is more common among these industrial workers; hence, this study was conducted. To study the morbidity pattern among the rice mill workers and the relationship between duration (years) of working and their morbid status. A cross-sectional study. A pre-structured questionnaire was used to record the necessary information such as clinical history, sociodemographic profile, findings of clinical examination and performance of peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR). The study was conducted in three rice mills in an urban area under Urban Health Training Centre (UHTC), Department of Community Medicine, SSMC, Tumkur. A total of 75 workers were recruited for the study. The study was conducted in the month of October. Statistical analysis was done using Chi-square test. Among these 75 workers, 42.66% had respiratory morbidity; among them, 10.66% had PEFR less than 200L/min. 26.66% had low backache and knee joint pain and 20% had generalized / musculo skeleton pain. 6.6% suffered from allergic conjunctivitis and 4% had skin allergy. High Prevalence of respiratory morbidity (42.66%) and 8 (10.66%) workers with decreased PEFR were found. It also showed that there was statistically significant relationship between duration (years) of working and respiratory morbid condition. This condition can be prevented by good health education and appropriate usage of safety devices, and further studies are recommended.
21462118	Micronutrient malnutrition, or hidden hunger, afflicts a large part of the worlds population, with vitamin A deficiency among the most prevalent public health problems. Provitamin A carotenoids in plant foods are a source of vitamin A for humans; however, several factors, including species of carotenoids, host status, and effectors of absorption can negatively, positively, or in yet undetermined ways affect the bioavailability of these compounds. Staple foods biofortified with provitamin A carotenoids have shown more efficient bioconversion to retinol than generally observed for vegetables (e. g., 3 - 6 versus 10 - 80 beta-carotene to 1 µg retinol). Staple foods such as maize, rice, and cassava, are generally more accessible than meat or vegetable sources of retinol or provitamin A carotenoids to poor consumers, who are most likely to suffer micronutrient malnutrition. Interdisciplinary teamwork, including plant breeders, nutritionists, government and local agencies, seed companies, and communities, is needed to avail biofortified crops to needy populations. Key steps include developing, validating the nutritional effects of, providing nutrition education concerning, and promoting the use of biofortified crops. Provitamin A carotenoid biofortification of sweet potato, maize, cassava, and rice are at different stages along this continuum. Close linkages between agriculture, nutrition, and health, are essential in the quest to eradicate hunger among the poor.
21462332	Cassia cinnamon contains high levels (up to 1 %) of coumarin. Heavy consumption of this spice may result in a dose exceeding the tolerable daily intake (TDI). In this context, the question was raised whether coumarin in the plant matrix of cinnamon has the same bioavailability as isolated coumarin. A four-way crossover study was performed, in which the same dose of 12 mg coumarin was administered in different formulations to 24 healthy volunteers. The relative extent of absorption measured as urinary excretion of the main metabolite 7-hydroxycoumarin (7OHC) was found to be 62.8% for isolated coumarin in a capsule (reference), 56.0% for cinnamon in capsules, 66.1% for cinnamon tea, and 54.7% for cinnamon in rice pudding (means, n=23, observation period 8 hours). Additionally, 7OHC plasma levels were measured for 105 minutes after administration and revealed a fast absorption of coumarin from cinnamon tea leading to the highest peak concentrations. The relative extent of absorption of coumarin from powder of cassia cinnamon is only slightly lower than that of isolated coumarin. Therefore, the TDI of coumarin can be used for risk assessment of coumarin exposure from cinnamon-containing meals.
21462347	Growing rice is an important socio-economic activity. Rice proteomics has achieved a tremendous progress in establishing techniques to proteomes of almost all tissues, organs, and organelles during the past one decade (year 2000-2010). We have compiled these progresses time to time over this period. The present compilation discusses proteomics research in rice published between 1st April 2008 and 30th July 2010. Progress continues mainly towards protein cataloging deep into the proteome with high-confident protein assignment and some functional significance than ever before by (i) identifying previously unreported/low-abundance proteins, (ii) quantifying relative/absolute values of proteins, (iii) assigning protein responses to biotic/abiotic stresses, (iv) protein localization into organelles, (v) validating previous proteomes and eliminating false-positive proteins, and (vi) discovering potential biomarkers for tissues, organs, organelles, and for screening transgenic plants and food-safety evaluation. The notable achievements in global mapping of phosphorylation sites and identifying several novel secreted proteins into the extracellular space are worth appreciating. Our ever-increasing knowledge on the rice proteomics is beginning to impact the biology of not only rice, but also crops and plants. These major achievements will be discussed in this review keeping in mind newcomers, young, and established scientists in proteomics and plants.
21462701	Groundwater contamination due to pesticide applications on agricultural lands is of great environmental concern. The mathematical models help to understand the mechanism of pesticide leaching in soils towards groundwater. We developed a user-friendly model called ArcPRZM-3 by integrating widely used Pesticide Root Zone Model version 3 (PRZM-3) using Visual Basic and Geographic Information System (GIS) based Avenue programming. ArcPRZM-3 could be used to simulate pesticide leaching towards groundwater with user-friendly input interfaces coupled with databases of crops, soils and pesticides. The outputs from ArcPRZM-3 could be visualized in user-friendly formats of tables, charts and maps. In this study we evaluated ArcPRZM-3 model by simulating bentazon leaching in soil towards groundwater. ArcPRZM-3 was applied to 37 sites in Woodruff County, Arkansas, USA to observe the daily average dissolved bentazon concentration for soybean, sorghum and rice at a depth of 1.8 m for a period of two years. Nineteen ranks of bentazon leaching potential were obtained using ArcPRZM-3 for all sites having different soil and crop combinations. ArcPRZM-3 simulation results for bentazon were compatible with the field monitored data in term of relative ranking and trend, although some uncertainties exist. This study indicated that macropore flow mechanism would be important in analyzing the effect of irrigation on groundwater contamination due to pesticides. Overall, ArcPRZM-3 could be used to simulate pesticide leaching towards groundwater more efficiently and effectively as compared to PRZM-3.
21462721	Strength development, leachability and microstructure of heavy metals from the solidified waste using synthesis rice husk ash (sRHA) and lime blended at the weight ratio of 1:1 were used as binders. The heavy metal-containing sludge was used at the level of 0 wt.%, 30 wt.%, and 50 wt.% dry weight, respectively. The sample specimens with and without 1.5 wt.% of sodium silicate (SiO2/Na2O = 1.0) were cured under the ambient condition and elevated temperature curing at 50 degrees C for 24 hr. Experimental results showed that the introduction of sodium silicate solution and elevated temperature curing to sRHA-based solidified waste containing 30 wt.% of heavy metal sludge gave one day strength of 20 kg/cm2 compared to 0.9 kg/cm2 for the control sample. XRD patterns indicated that most metal-sulfides present in the sludge were appeared in the solidified waste and SEM coupled with EDX techniques reveal these metal-sulfide particles were trapped within the lime-sRHA matrices. In addition, cumulative leaching behavior by tank test (EA NEN 7375:2004) showed that solidified waste containing up to 30 wt.% of heavy metal sludge was suitable to dispose in a secured landfill.
21464626	Chappell and Hollander "offer an evidence-based policy prescription to meet the challenges …[of] an aging society." The fallacies of apocalyptic demography are briskly dismissed; their message is that decades of solid evidence support the critical importance of an integrated system of continuing care for the chronically ill elderly, both health services and home support. But the paper loses focus with discussions of "ageism", the compression of morbidity, and healthy communities. The authors might have explored why (as they argue) public policy has retreated from their prescription in recent decades. That prescription would require either a re-allocation of resources (incomes) away from politically well-entrenched interests, or simply more money. Neither appears currently promising.
21464755	In a prior retrospective analysis of 32 infants diagnosed with cow's-milk protein-induced enterocolitis (CMPIE), gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms were observed with the introduction of milk-free infant cereal. The aim of this randomized controlled trial was to compare the incidence of new GI symptoms with the introduction of either milk-free infant rice cereal or carrots as the first complementary food at 6 months of age in infants previously diagnosed as having CMPIE. Thirty-nine infants were enrolled in the study. Twenty were randomized to start with pureed carrots and 19 were randomized to start with milk-free infant rice cereal. GI signs and symptoms developing within 2 weeks were recorded. No significant differences were noticed in the incidence of new GI symptoms and the change in the frequency of GI symptoms upon solid-food introduction, whether it was carrots or milk-free infant rice cereal. A high overall incidence rate (47%) of new GI symptoms was observed in the whole cohort. The mean number of days for onset of new symptoms was 6. The most common GI signs and symptoms observed were related to alteration of stool characteristics. Breast-feeding was not shown to have a protective effect on the development of new GI symptoms during solid-food introduction. Many infants with CMPIE will develop GI signs and symptoms following the introduction of solid food, whether milk-free infant rice cereal or carrots are introduced, and their onset may be delayed.
21465162	Ferro-cyanide is one of the commonly found species at cyanide-contaminated soils and groundwater. Unlike botanical metabolism of KCN via the β-cyanoalanine pathway, processes involved in the plant-mediated assimilation of ferro-cyanide are still unclear. The objective of this study was to investigate a possible mechanism involved in uptake and assimilation of ferro-cyanide by plants. Detached roots of plants were exposed to ferro-cyanide in a closed-dark hydroponic system amended with HgCl(2), AgNO(3), LaCl(3), tetraethylammonium chloride (TEACl), or Na(3)VO(4), respectively, at 25 ± 0.5°C for 24 h. Total CN, free CN(-), and dissolved Fe(2+) were analyzed spectrophotometrically. Activity of β-cyanoalanine synthase involved in cyanide assimilation was also assayed using detached roots of plants in vivo. Dissociation of ferro-cyanide [Fe(II)(CN)(6)](-4) to free CN(-) and Fe(2+) in solution was negligible. The applied inhibitors did not show any significant impact on the uptake of ferro-cyanide by soybean (Glycine max L. cv. JD 1) and hybrid willows (Salix matsudana Koidz × alba L.; p > 0.05), but rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. JY 98) was more susceptible to the inhibitors compared with the controls (p < 0.05). However, TEACl had the most severe effect on the assimilation of ferro-cyanide by soybean, hybrid willows, and maize (Zea mays L. cv. PA 78; p < 0.01), whereas AgNO(3) was the most sensitive inhibitor to rice (p < 0.01). No measurable difference in β-cyanoalanine synthase activity of roots exposed to ferro-cyanide was observed compared with the control without any cyanides (p > 0.05), whereas roots exposed to KCN showed a considerable increase in enzyme activity (p < 0.05). Plants take up Fe(2+) and CN(-) as a whole complex, and in vivo dissociation to free CN(-) is not prerequisite during the botanical assimilation of ferro-cyanide. Ferro-cyanide is likely metabolized by plants directly through an unknown pathway rather than the β-cyanoalanine pathway.
21465163	Indiscriminate use of insecticides leads to environmental problems and poses a great threat to beneficial microorganisms. The aim of the present work was to study chlorpyrifos degradation by a rice field cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. strain PUPCCC 64 so that the organism is able to reduce insecticide pollution in situ. The unicellular cyanobacterium isolated and purified from a rice field was identified by partial 16S rRNA gene sequence as Synechocystis sp. strain PUPCCC 64. Tolerance limit of the organism was determined by studying its growth in graded concentrations (2.5-20 mg/L) of chlorpyrifos. Chlorpyrifos removal was studied by its depletion from the insecticide supplemented growth medium, and its biodegradation products were identified in the cell extract, biomass wash, and growth medium. The organism tolerated chlorpyrifos up to 15 mg/L. Major fraction of chlorpyrifos was removed by the organism during the first day followed by slow uptake. Biomass, pH, and temperature influenced the insecticide removal and the organism exhibited maximum chlorpyrifos removal at 100 mg protein/L biomass, pH 7.0, and 30°C. The cyanobacterium metabolized chlorpyrifos producing a number of degradation products as evidenced by GC-MS chromatogram. One of the degradation products was identified as 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol. Present study reports the biodegradation of chlorpyrifos by Synechocystis sp. Biodegradation of the insecticide by the cyanobacterium is significant as it can be biologically removed from the environment. The cyanobacterium may be used for bioremediation of chlorpyrifos-contaminated soils.
21465186	Orchardgrass, or cocksfoot [Dactylis glomerata (L.)], has been naturalized on nearly every continent and is a commonly used species for forage and hay production. All major cultivated varieties of orchardgrass are autotetraploid, and few tools or information are available for functional and comparative genetic analyses and improvement of the species. To improve the genetic resources for orchardgrass, we have developed an EST library and SSR markers from salt, drought, and cold stressed tissues. The ESTs were bi-directionally sequenced from clones and combined into 17,373 unigenes. Unigenes were annotated based on putative orthology to genes from rice, Triticeae grasses, other Poaceae, Arabidopsis, and the non-redundant database of the NCBI. Of 1,162 SSR markers developed, approximately 80% showed amplification products across a set of orchardgrass germplasm, and 40% across related Festuca and Lolium species. When orchardgrass subspecies were genotyped using 33 SSR markers their within-accession similarity values ranged from 0.44 to 0.71, with Mediterranean accessions having a higher similarity. The total number of genotyped bands was greater for tetraploid accessions compared to diploid accessions. Clustering analysis indicated grouping of Mediterranean subspecies and central Asian subspecies, while the D. glomerata ssp. aschersoniana was closest related to three cultivated varieties.
21465280	The current study was conducted in order to investigate the short-term effects (6, 12, and 24 h) of silicon (Si) on the endogenous hormonal composition of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Dongjin-beyo), with and without wounding stress. Si applied in different concentrations (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 mM) significantly promoted shoot length, plant biomass, and chlorophyll content of rice plants. Plants treated with different concentrations of sole Si for 6, 12, and 24 h had higher endogenous jasmonic acid contents than control. However, a combined application of wounding stress and Si induced a significantly small quantity of endogenous jasmonic acid as compared with control. On the contrary, endogenous salicylic acid level was significantly higher in sole Si-treated plants, while after wounding stress, a similar trend was observed yet again. After 6, 12, and 24 h of Si applications, with and without wounding stress, ethylene levels were significantly lower in comparison to their respective controls. The findings of the present study perpetrate the beneficial role of Si on the growth and development of rice plant by relieving physical injury and stress. Si also affects endogenous jasmonic acid and ethylene levels, while an inverse correlation exists between jasmonic acid and salicylic acid under wounding stress conditions.
21465786	To better reveal the functions of key members involved in cyclic di-GMP signal metabolism pathways in the bacterial blight pathogen of rice Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). vieAxoo (PXO 04753), a gene putatively encoding the EAL domain proteins was investigated by gene deletion mutation using the marker exchange, complementation and phenotypic analysis. The sequence of vieAxoo cloned from genomic DNA of the wild-type strain PXO99(A) was found to be highly conserved in plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas spp. VieAxoo was structurally featured with EAL and REC domains. No significant changes in virulence to rice, EPS production and flagellar motility were found in deltavieAxoo compared to PXO99(A), whereas remarkable changes in induction of hypersensitive responses (HR) in tobacco and biofilm formation were observed. VieAxoo might function as an important reponse regulator in cyclic di-GMP signaling and regulation of bacterial induction of HR and biofilm formation of Xoo.
21466742	To study the relationship between dietary intake and the development of type 2 diabetes among Chinese adults. A prospective cohort study. Dietary assessment was carried out using a validated FFQ. Principal component analysis was used to identify dietary patterns. Dietary glycaemic load and variety of snacks were also calculated. A hospital-based centre at the Queen Mary Hospital in Hong Kong SAR, China. A total of 1010 Chinese adults aged 25-74 years who participated in a territory-wide dietary and cardiovascular risk factor prevalence survey in 1995-1996 were followed up for 9-14 years for the development of diabetes. A total of 690 (68·3 %) individuals completed follow-up during 2005-2008 and seventy-four cases of diabetes were identified over the follow-up period. Four dietary patterns were identified ('more snacks and drinks', 'more vegetables, fruits and fish', 'more meat and milk products' and 'more refined grains'). After adjustment for age, sex, BMI, waist-to-hip ratio, smoking, alcohol intake, participation in exercise/sports and family history of diabetes, the more vegetables, fruits and fish pattern was associated with a 14 % lower risk (OR per 1 sd increase in score = 0·76; 95 % CI 0·58, 0·99), whereas the more meat and milk products pattern was associated with a 39 % greater risk of diabetes (OR per 1 sd increase in score = 1·39; 95 % CI 1·04, 1·84). Dietary glycaemic load, rice intake, snack intake and variety of snacks were not independently associated with diabetes. The more vegetables, fruits and fish pattern was associated with reduced risk and the more meat and milk products pattern was associated with an increased risk of diabetes.
21467577	Programmed cell death (PCD) during tapetum degeneration in postmeiotic anthers is critical for the proper development of male gametophytes in flowering plants. Although several genes involved in this process have been identified recently, the molecular mechanism is still poorly understood. Here, we show that knockout of rice (Oryza sativa) APOPTOSIS INHIBITOR5 (API5), which encodes a putative homolog of antiapoptosis protein Api5 in animals, results in delayed degeneration of the tapetum due to inhibition of the tapetal PCD process leading to defects in formation of male gametophytes. Os API5 is a nuclear protein that interacts with two DEAD-box ATP-dependent RNA helicases, API5-INTERACTING PROTEIN1 (AIP1) and AIP2. AIP1 and AIP2 are homologs of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) Suppressor of Bad Response to Refrigeration1 protein 2 (SUB2p) that have critical roles in transcription elongation and pre-mRNA splicing. Os AIP1 and AIP2 can form dimers and interact directly with the promoter region of CP1, a rice cysteine protease gene. Suppression of Os AIP1/2 leads to down-regulation of CP1, resulting in sterility, which is highly similar to the effects of suppressed expression of Os CP1. Our results uncover a previously unknown pathway for regulating PCD during tapetum degeneration in rice, one that may be conserved among eukaryotic organisms.
21467582	We used a novel approach that incorporated chromosome sorting, next-generation sequencing, array hybridization, and systematic exploitation of conserved synteny with model grasses to assign ~86% of the estimated ~32,000 barley (Hordeum vulgare) genes to individual chromosome arms. Using a series of bioinformatically constructed genome zippers that integrate gene indices of rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and Brachypodium distachyon in a conserved synteny model, we were able to assemble 21,766 barley genes in a putative linear order. We show that the barley (H) genome displays a mosaic of structural similarity to hexaploid bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) A, B, and D subgenomes and that orthologous genes in different grasses exhibit signatures of positive selection in different lineages. We present an ordered, information-rich scaffold of the barley genome that provides a valuable and robust framework for the development of novel strategies in cereal breeding.
21468408	Predatory aquatic beetles are common colonizers of natural and managed aquatic environments. While as important components of the aquatic food webs they are prone to accumulate trace elements, they have been largely neglected from metal uptake studies. We aim to test the suitability of three dytiscid species, i.e.Hydroglyphus pusillus, Laccophilus minutus and Rhantus suturalis, as trace elements (Al, As, Cd, Co, Cu, Fe, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pb, Se and Zn) bioindicators. The work was carried out in a case area representing rice paddies and control sites (reservoirs) from an arid region known for its land degradation (Monegros, NE Spain). Categorical principal component analysis (CATPCA) was tested as a nonlinear approach to identify significant relationships between metals, species and habitat conditions so as to examine the ability of these species to reflect differences in metal uptake. Except Se and As, the average concentrations of all other elements in the beetles were higher in the rice fields than in the control habitats. The CATPCA determined that H. pusillus had high capacity to accumulate Fe, Ni and Mn regardless of the habitat type, and hence may not be capable of distinguishing habitat conditions with regards to these metals. On the other hand, L. minutus was found less sensitive for Se in non-managed habitats (i.e. reservoirs), while R. suturalis was good in accumulating Al, Mo and Pb in rice fields. The latter seems to be a promising bioindicator of metal enrichment in rice fields. We conclude that predatory aquatic beetles are good candidates for trace elements bioindication in impacted and non-impacted environments and can be used in environmental monitoring studies. CATPCA proved to be a reliable approach to unveil trends in metal accumulation in aquatic invertebrates according to their habitat status.
21468676	The genome sequences of rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Brachypodium distachyon and the comprehensive Triticeae EST (Expressed Sequence Tag) resources provide invaluable information for comparative genomics analysis. The powdery mildew resistance gene, Pm6, which was introgressed into common wheat from Triticum timopheevii, was previously mapped to the wheat chromosome bin of 2BL [fraction length (FL) 0.50-1.00] with limited DNA markers. In this study, we saturated the Pm6 locus in wheat using the collinearity-based markers by extensively exploiting these genomic resources. All wheat ESTs located in the bin 2BL FL 0.50-1.00 and their corresponding orthologous genes on rice chromosome 4 were firstly used to develop STS (Sequence Tagged Site) markers. Those identified markers that flanked the Pm6 locus were then used to identify the collinear regions in the genomes of rice and Brachypodium. Triticeae ESTs with orthologous genes in these collinear regions were further used to develop new conserved markers for the fine mapping of Pm6. Using two F(2) populations derived from crosses of IGVI-465 × Prins and IGVI-466 × Prins, we mapped a total of 29 markers to the Pm6 locus. Among them, 14 markers were co-segregated with Pm6 in the IGVI-466/Prins population. Comparative genome analysis showed that the collinear region of the 29 linked markers covers a ~5.6-Mb region in chromosome 5L of Brachypodium and a ~6.0-Mb region in chromosome 4L of rice. The marker order is conserved between rice and Brachypodium, but re-arrangements are present in wheat. Comparative mapping in the two populations showed that two conserved markers (CINAU123 and CINAU127) flanked the Pm6 locus, and an LRR-receptor-like protein kinase cluster was identified in the collinear regions of Brachypodium and rice. This putative resistance gene cluster provides a potential target site for further fine mapping and cloning of Pm6. Moreover, the newly developed conserved markers closely linked to Pm6 can be used for the marker-assisted selection (MAS) of Pm6 in wheat breeding programs.
21468744	Wheat preharvest sprouting (PHS) occurs when seed germinates on the plant before harvest resulting in reduced grain quality. In wheat, PHS susceptibility is correlated with low levels of seed dormancy. A previous mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTL) revealed a major PHS/seed dormancy QTL, QPhs.cnl-2B.1, located on wheat chromosome 2B. A comparative genetic study with the related grass species rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Brachypodium distachyon at the homologous region to the QPhs.cnl-2B.1 interval was used to identify the candidate genes for marker development and subsequent fine mapping. Expressed sequence tags and a comparative mapping were used to design 278 primer pairs, of which 22 produced polymorphic amplicons that mapped to the group 2 chromosomes. Fourteen mapped to chromosome 2B, and ten were located in the QTL interval. A comparative analysis revealed good macrocollinearity between the PHS interval and 3 million base pair (mb) region on rice chromosomes 7 and 3, and a 2.7-mb region on Brachypodium Bd1. The comparative intervals in rice were found to contain three previously identified rice seed dormancy QTL. Further analyses of the interval in rice identified genes that are known to play a role in seed dormancy, including a homologue for the putative Arabidopsis ABA receptor ABAR/GUN5. Additional candidate genes involved in calcium signaling were identified and were placed in a functional protein association network that includes additional proteins critical for ABA signaling and germination. This study provides promising candidate genes for seed dormancy in both wheat and rice as well as excellent molecular markers for further comparative and fine mapping.
21470253	The aim of the present work was to determine and compare the degradation of acetate in a Chinese rice field soil at 25°C and 50°C, respectively, and to identify specifically the active organisms involved in syntrophic acetate oxidation. Soil was preincubated anaerobically for 30 days to reduce alternative electron acceptors other than CO(2). The [2-(13)C] acetate (99% (13)C) was added twice: 0 day and 19 days after preincubation. Addition of [2-(13)C] acetate resulted in an immediate increase of (13)C labeled CH(4) but non-labeling of CO(2) at 25°C. The methanogen community was dominated by Methanosarcinaceae and Methanocellales at 25°C. In contrast, the addition of [2-(13)C] acetate at 50°C resulted in a rapid increase of (13)CO(2). The (13)C labeling of CH(4) gradually increased and reached a similar value to CO(2) (13% (13)C) at the end of incubation (40 days). Nearly all archaeal 16S rRNA genes detected at 50°C belonged to hydrogenotrophic Methanocellales. DNA-based stable isotope probing analysis revealed that the organisms related to Thermacetogenium lineage and the unclassified Thermoanaerobacteraceae group were intensively labeled with (13)C in the incubations at 50°C. Thus, acetate was converted to CH(4) and CO(2) through aceticlastic methanogenesis at 25°C, while syntrophic acetate oxidation occurred at 50°C.
21470654	The mechanisms of stabilization by silicon-rich amendments of cadmium, zinc, copper and lead in a multi-metal contaminated acidic soil and the mitigation of metal accumulation in rice were investigated in this study. The results from a pot experiment indicated that the application of fly ash (20 and 40gkg(-1)) and steel slag (3 and 6gkg(-1)) increased soil pH from 4.0 to 5.0-6.4, decreased the phytoavailability of heavy metals by at least 60%, and further suppressed metal uptake by rice. Diffusion gradient in thin-film measurement showed the heavy metal diffusion fluxes from soil to solution decreased by greater than 84% after remediation. X-ray diffraction analysis indicated the mobile metals were mainly deposited as their silicates, phosphates and hydroxides in amended treatments. Moreover, it was found metal translocation from stem to leaf was dramatically restrained by adding amendments, which might be due to the increase of silicon concentration and co-precipitation with heavy metals in stem. Finally, a field experiment showed the trace element concentrations in polished rice treated with amendments complied with the food safety standards of China. These results demonstrated fly ash and steel slag could be effective in mitigating heavy metal accumulation in rice grown on multi-metal contaminated acidic soils.
21470656	Combination of divergent active principles to achieve broad-spectrum control is gaining popularity to manage the weed menace in intensive agriculture. However, such application could have non-target impacts on the soil processes affecting soil ecology and environmental interactions. A field experiment was conducted to investigate the impact of separate and combined applications of herbicides bensulfuron methyl and pretilachlor on the emission of N(2)O and CH(4), and related soil and microbial parameters in a flooded alluvial field planted to rice cv Lalat. Single application of the herbicide bensulfuron methyl or pretilachlor resulted in a significant reduction of N(2)O and CH(4) emissions while the combination of these two herbicides distinctly increased N(2)O and CH(4) emissions. Cumulative N(2)O emissions (kg N(2)O-N) followed the order of bensulfuron methyl (0.35 kg ha(-1))<pretilachlor (0.36 kg ha(-1))<control (0.45 kg ha(-1))<bensulfuron methyl 0.6%+pretilachlor 6.0% single dose (0.49 kg ha(-1))<bensulfuron methyl 0.6%+pretilachlor 6.0% double dose (0.54 kg ha(-1)). Cumulative CH(4) emissions (kg CH(4)), on the other hand, followed the order of bensulfuron methyl (47.89 kg ha(-1))<pretilachlor (73.17 kg ha(-1))<bensulfuron methyl 0.6%+pretilachlor 6.0% single dose (93.50 kg ha(-1))<control (106.54 kg ha(-1))<bensulfuron methyl 0.6%+pretilachlor 6.0% double dose (124.67 kg ha(-1)). The inhibitory effect of separate application of herbicides bensulfuron methyl 0.6% and pretilachlor 6.0% on N(2)O emission was linked to lower mineral N, lower denitrifying and nitrifying activity and low denitrifier and nitrifier populations. Inhibitory effect on CH(4) emission, on the contrary, was linked to prevention in the drop of redox potential, lower readily mineralizable carbon (RMC) and microbial biomass carbon (MBC) contents as well as lower methanogenic and higher methanotrophic bacterial population. Admittedly, stimulatory effect of combined application of herbicides bensulfuron methyl 0.6% and pretilachlor 6.0% at double dose on N(2)O and CH(4) emission was related to reversal of the identified indicators of inhibition. Results indicate that while individual application of herbicides bensulfuron methyl 0.6% or pretilachlor 6.0% can reduce N(2)O and CH(4) emission from flooded soil planted to rice, their combined application at normal dose can keep the emission at a comparatively lower level with significantly higher grain yield as compared to the herbicides applied alone.
21470850	Rice straw is one of the abundant lignocellulosic feed stocks in the world and has been selected for producing ethanol at an economically feasible manner. It contains a mixture of sugars (hexoses and pentoses). Biphasic acid hydrolysis was carried out with sulphuric acid using rice straw. After acid hydrolysis, the sugars, furans and phenolics were estimated. The initial concentration of sugar was found to be 16.8 g L(-1). However to increase the ethanol yield, the initial sugar concentration of the hydrolysate was concentrated to 31 g L(-1) by vacuum distillation. The concentration of sugars, phenols and furans was checked and later detoxified by over liming to use for ethanol fermentation. Ethanol concentration was found to be 12 g L(-1), with a yield, volumetric ethanol productivity and fermentation efficiency of 0.33 g L(-1)h(-1), 0.4 g g(-1) and 95%, respectively by co-culture of OVB 11 (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and Pichia stipitis NCIM 3498.
21470856	Culture conditions for enhanced cellulase production from a newly isolated brown rot fungus, Fomitopsis sp. RCK2010 were optimized under solid state fermentation. An initial pH of 5.5 and moisture ratio of 1:3.5 (solid:liquid) were found to be optimal for maximum enzyme production. Of the different carbon sources tested wheat bran gave the maximum production of CMCase (71.526 IU/g), FPase (3.268 IU/g), and β-glucosidase (50.696 IU/g). Among the nitrogen sources, urea caused maximum production of CMCase (81.832 IU/g), where as casein and soyabean meal gave the highest FPase (4.682 IU/g) and β-glucosidase (69.083 IU/g) production, respectively. Among amino acids tested glutamic acid gave the highest production for CMCase (84.127I U/g); however 4-hydroxy-l-proline stimulated maximum FPase production (6.762 IU/g). Saccharification of pretreated rice straw and wheat straw by crude enzyme extract from Fomitopsis sp. RCK2010 resulted in release of 157.160 and 214.044 mg/g of reducing sugar, respectively.
21470968	Nine different regions totaling 9.7 Mb of the 4.02 Gb Aegilops tauschii genome were sequenced using the Sanger sequencing technology and compared with orthologous Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa (rice), and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum) genomic sequences. The ancestral gene content in these regions was inferred and used to estimate gene deletion and gene duplication rates along each branch of the phylogenetic tree relating the four species. The total gene number in the extant Ae. tauschii genome was estimated to be 36,371. The gene deletion and gene duplication rates and total gene numbers in the four genomes were used to estimate the total gene number in each node of the phylogenetic tree. The common ancestor of the Brachypodieae and Triticeae lineages was estimated to have had 28,558 genes, and the common ancestor of the Panicoideae, Ehrhartoideae, and Pooideae subfamilies was estimated to have had 27,152 or 28,350 genes, depending on the ancestral gene scenario. Relative to the Brachypodieae and Triticeae common ancestor, the gene number was reduced in B. distachyon by 3,026 genes and increased in Ae. tauschii by 7,813 genes. The sum of gene deletion and gene duplication rates, which reflects the rate of gene synteny loss, was correlated with the rate of structural chromosome rearrangements and was highest in the Ae. tauschii lineage and lowest in the rice lineage. The high rate of gene space evolution in the Ae. tauschii lineage accounts for the fact that, contrary to the expectations, the level of synteny between the phylogenetically more related Ae. tauschii and B. distachyon genomes is similar to the level of synteny between the Ae. tauschii genome and the genomes of the less related rice and sorghum. The ratio of gene duplication to gene deletion rates in these four grass species closely parallels both the total number of genes in a species and the overall genome size. Because the overall genome size is to a large extent a function of the repeated sequence content in a genome, we suggest that the amount and activity of repeated sequences are important factors determining the number of genes in a genome.
21473270	A pesticide fate and transport model (PCPF-B) was developed to predict the runoff of pesticides from paddy plots to a drainage canal in a paddy block based on the plot scale model (PCPF-1). The block-scale model now comprises three modules: (1) a module for pesticide application, (2) a module for pesticide behaviour in paddy fields, and (3) a module for pesticide concentration in the drainage canal. The PCPF-B model was first evaluated using published data in a single plot and then was applied to predict the concentration of bensulphuron-methyl in one paddy block in the Sakura river basin, Ibaraki, Japan, where a detailed field survey was conducted. The PCPF-B model simulated well the concentration of bensulphuron-methyl in individual paddy plots. It also reflected the runoff pattern of bensulphuron-methyl at the block outlet, although overestimation of bensulphuron-methyl concentrations occurred due to uncertainty in water balance estimation. A sensitivity analysis showed that the soil adsorption coefficient of the herbicide had the greatest influence on the concentrations and cumulative loss of bensulphuron-methyl to the drainage canal.
21473282	Nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) loss from rice paddy fields represents a significant threat to water quality in China. In this project, three irrigation-drainage regimes were compared, including one conventional irrigation-drainage regime, i.e. continuous submergence regime (CSR), and two improved regimes, i.e. the alternating submergence-nonsubmergence regime (ASNR) and the zero-drainage irrigation technology (ZDIT), to seek cost-effective practices for reducing nutrient loss. The data from these comparisons showed that, excluding the nutrient input from irrigation, the net exports of total N and total P via surface field drainage ranged from -3.93 to 2.39 kg ha and 0.17 to 0.95 g ha(-1) under the CSR operation, respectively, while N loss was -2.46 to -2.23 kg ha(-1) and P export was -0.65 to 0.31 kg ha(-1) under the improved regimes. The intensity of P export was positively correlated to the rate of P application. Reducing the draining frequency or postponing the draining operation would shift the ecological role of the paddy field from a nutrient export source to an interception sink when ASNR or the zero-drainage water management was used. In addition, since the rice yields are being guaranteed at no additional cost, the improved irrigation-drainage operations would have economic as well as environmental benefits.
21473757	Biotic and abiotic stresses, such as powdery mildew infection and high temperature, are important limiting factors for yield and grain quality in wheat production. Emerging evidences suggest that long non-protein coding RNAs (npcRNAs) are developmentally regulated and play roles in development and stress responses of plants. However, identification of long npcRNAs is limited to a few plant species, such as Arabidopsis, rice and maize, no systematic identification of long npcRNAs and their responses to abiotic and biotic stresses is reported in wheat. In this study, by using computational analysis and experimental approach we identified 125 putative wheat stress responsive long npcRNAs, which are not conserved among plant species. Among them, some were precursors of small RNAs such as microRNAs and siRNAs, two long npcRNAs were identified as signal recognition particle (SRP) 7S RNA variants, and three were characterized as U3 snoRNAs. We found that wheat long npcRNAs showed tissue dependent expression patterns and were responsive to powdery mildew infection and heat stress. Our results indicated that diverse sets of wheat long npcRNAs were responsive to powdery mildew infection and heat stress, and could function in wheat responses to both biotic and abiotic stresses, which provided a starting point to understand their functions and regulatory mechanisms in the future.
21473768	Auxin signaling is vital for plant growth and development, and plays important role in apical dominance, tropic response, lateral root formation, vascular differentiation, embryo patterning and shoot elongation. Auxin Response Factors (ARFs) are the transcription factors that regulate the expression of auxin responsive genes. The ARF genes are represented by a large multigene family in plants. The first draft of full maize genome assembly has recently been released, however, to our knowledge, the ARF gene family from maize (ZmARF genes) has not been characterized in detail. In this study, 31 maize (Zea mays L.) genes that encode ARF proteins were identified in maize genome. It was shown that maize ARF genes fall into related sister pairs and chromosomal mapping revealed that duplication of ZmARFs was associated with the chromosomal block duplications. As expected, duplication of some ZmARFs showed a conserved intron/exon structure, whereas some others were more divergent, suggesting the possibility of functional diversification for these genes. Out of these 31 ZmARF genes, 14 possess auxin-responsive element in their promoter region, among which 7 appear to show small or negligible response to exogenous auxin. The 18 ZmARF genes were predicted to be the potential targets of small RNAs. Transgenic analysis revealed that increased miR167 level could cause degradation of transcripts of six potential targets (ZmARF3, 9, 16, 18, 22 and 30). The expressions of maize ARF genes are responsive to exogenous auxin treatment. Dynamic expression patterns of ZmARF genes were observed in different stages of embryo development. Maize ARF gene family is expanded (31 genes) as compared to Arabidopsis (23 genes) and rice (25 genes). The expression of these genes in maize is regulated by auxin and small RNAs. Dynamic expression patterns of ZmARF genes in embryo at different stages were detected which suggest that maize ARF genes may be involved in seed development and germination.
21474375	In this research, the protein participation that occurs with the flocculation and sedimentation phenomena caused by adding enzymes to solid particles derived from rice washing drainage and the electrostatic properties of the solid particle surfaces was examined. As seen in the results, adding protease to rice washing drainage decreased the protein content, strengthened the negative surface electron charge, and decreased the isoelectric point (IEP) value of the solid particles. In addition, about 25% of the proteins in the rice washing drainage still remained after enzyme treatment. Moreover, due to the enzyme treatment, specific and gradual degradations of 10, 13, and 16kDa of prolamin and 20-22kDa of gluterin basic subunit, both categorized in the basic protein group, were observed in an SDS-PAGE analysis. These results suggest that the flocculation and sedimentation of solid particles in rice washing drainage occur as a result of the formation of the IEP-dependent strengthening of the negative surface electron charge on the solid particle surface.
21474553	Oil production from oil palm is adversely affected by drought and salt. Under drought and salt stress, proline content increases in oil palm; the mechanism for this is unknown. Here, an 8319-nucleotide sequence including cDNA, genomic DNA and the promoter region of proline transporter gene from oil palm Elaeis guineensis was determined. The transporter gene exhibited high similarity to Bet/ProT genes from several plants, but the highest homology was found with rice ProT1. The exon-intron structure of genomic DNA was unique, and numerous stress-response cis-elements were found in the promoter region. Expression of cDNA EgProT1 in Escherichia coli mutant exhibited uptake activities for glycinebetaine and choline as well as proline. Under salt-stressed conditions, exogenously applied glycinebetaine was taken up into the root more rapidly than the control. These data indicate that oil palm has a unique Pro/T1 gene. Nucleotide sequence data for the cDNA and genomic DNA of proline transporter gene from Elaeis guineensis are available in the DDJB database under accession numbers AB597035 and AB597036, respectively.
21475686	Fungus gardens of the basidiomycete Leucocoprinus gongylophorus sustain large colonies of leaf-cutting ants by degrading the plant material collected by the ants. Recent studies have shown that enzyme activity in these gardens is primarily targeted toward starch, proteins and the pectin matrix associated with cell walls, rather than toward structural cell wall components such as cellulose and hemicelluloses. Substrate constituents are also known to be sequentially degraded in different sections of the fungus garden. To test the plasticity in the extracellular expression of fungus-garden enzymes, we measured the changes in enzyme activity after a controlled shift in fungal substrate offered to six laboratory colonies of Atta cephalotes. An ant diet consisting exclusively of grains of parboiled rice rapidly increased the activity of endo-proteinases and some of the pectinases attacking the backbone structure of pectin molecules, relative to a pure diet of bramble leaves, and this happened predominantly in the most recently established top sections of fungus gardens. However, fungus-garden amylase activity did not significantly increase despite the substantial increase in starch availability from the rice diet, relative to the leaf diet controls. Enzyme activity in the older, bottom sections of fungus gardens decreased, indicating a faster processing of the rice substrate compared to the leaf diet. These results suggest that leaf-cutting ant fungus gardens can rapidly adjust enzyme activity to provide a better match with substrate availability and that excess starch that is not protected by cell walls may be digested by the ants rather than by the fungus-garden symbiont. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s00040-010-0127-9) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
21475789	The aim of the present study was to examine whether crude glycosphingolipid (cGSL) has short-term chemopreventive effects on the preneoplastic biomarker lesions involved in carcinogen-induced rat colon carcinogenesis. We also examined whether cGSL affects cell proliferation and apoptosis in these lesions. The crude preparation was obtained by the simple ethanol extraction method. Five-week-old male F344 rats were divided into 6 groups. Rats in groups 1-4 were given subcutaneous injections of azoxymethane (AOM) (20 mg/kg body weight) once a week for 2 weeks. Starting 1 week before the first injection of AOM, the rats in groups 2, 3 and 4 were fed a diet containing 250, 1,000 and 3,000 ppm cGSL, respectively, for 5 weeks. The experiment was terminated 5 weeks after the start date, and the number of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) and mucin-depleted foci (MDF) was counted. Dietary cGSL significantly inhibited the induction of ACF (group 3, P<0.01; group 4, P<0.05) and MDF (groups 2 and 3, P<0.001; group 4, P<0.05) as compared to group 1 treated with AOM alone. In groups 3 and 4, proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive indices of epithelial cells were significantly lower than in group 1 (group 3, P<0.05; group 4, P<0.005). Caspase-3-positive indices were significantly higher in groups 3 and 4 than in group 1 (group 3, P<0.01; group 4, P<0.001). These results suggest that dietary cGSL had a potent chemopreventive effect in the present short-term colon carcinogenesis bioassays, and that this effect may be associated with the inhibition of ACF and MDF and the induction of apoptosis.
21476254	An. artemievi was diagnosed by morphological and molecular genetic analyses in the Fergana valley, Uzbekistan, in 2008-2009. Four species of the genus Anopheles: An. superpictus, An. artemievi, An. hyrcanus, and An. claviger inhabiting the irrigated oases with the bulk of population were detected in the Fergana valley. An. artemievi and An. superpictus were prevalent in the foci of malaria. An. artemievi larvae inhabited the rice fields, springs, collection-drainage systems, and water reservoirs enriched in oxygen. The most attractive day's rest for mosquitoes was a cattle house where their bulk (on average 41.8%) was present. Next was cattle sheds, with the mosquitoes averaging 26.4%. An. artemievi, attacked human beings in the field conditions. This species showed a high susceptibility to test insecticides, such as propoxur, cipermethrin, deltamethrin, and lambda-Cyhalothrin.
21476343	Plant uptake factor (PUF), single-variable regression of natural log-transformed concentrations in rice grain/vegetables versus natural log-transformed concentrations in soil and multiple-variable regression with soil concentrations and pH, was derived, validated and compared based on the paired crop and soil data collected from studies regarding As, Cd and Pb contaminated croplands in China. Results showed that the median value of PUF did not present deterministic prediction. But after natural logarithm transformation, the PUF followed Gaussian distribution which could be useful in risk assessment. The single-variable regression models were significant for As, Cd and Pb uptake both by rice and vegetables; however, the standard errors of all the regressions were comparatively large. Soil pH as a variable was generally significant but it only contributed positively to model fit for Cd uptake. After model comparison and selection, the upper 95% prediction limits of the multiple regression model for Cd uptake by rice was recommended to calculate screening value of Cd for paddy soil based on the limit for Cd concentration in rice grain.
21477784	We have isolated a recessive rice mutant, designated as indeterminate growth (ing), which displays creeping and apparent heterochronic phenotypes in the vegetative period with lanky and winding culms. Rough mapping and subsequent molecular characterization revealed that the ing mutant carries a large deletion, which corresponds to a 103 kb region in the Nipponbare genome, containing nine annotated genes on chromosome 3. Of these annotated genes, the SLR1 gene encoding a DELLA protein is the only one that is well characterized in its function, and its null mutation, which is caused by a single base deletion in the middle of the intronless SLR1 gene, confers a slender phenotype that bears close resemblance to the ing mutant phenotype. The primary cause of the ing mutant phenotype is the deletion of the SLR1 gene, and the ing mutant appears to be the first characterized mutant having the entire SLR1 sequence deleted. Our results also suggest that the deleted region of 103 kb does not contain an indispensable gene, whose dysfunction must result in a lethal phenotype.
21478322	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causative agent of bacterial leaf streak, injects a plethora of effectors through the type III secretion system (T3SS) into rice cells to cause disease. The T3SS, encoded by the hrp genes, is essential for the pathogen to elicit the hypersensitive response (HR) in nonhost tobacco and for pathogenicity in host rice. Whether or not a putative lytic transglycosylase, Hpa2, interacts with a translocon protein, HrpF, to facilitate bacterial pathogenicity remains unknown. Here we demonstrated that both the hpa2 and hrpF genes are required for the pathogenicity of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola strain RS105 in rice but not for HR induction in tobacco. The expression of hpa2 was positively regulated by HrpG and HrpD6 but not by HrpX. In vivo secretion and subcellular localization analyses confirmed that Hpa2 secretion is dependent on HpaB (a T3SS exit protein) and that Hpa2 binds to the host cell membrane. Protein-protein assays demonstrated that Hpa2 interacts with HrpF. In planta translocation of AvrXa10 indicated that the mutation in hpa2 and hrpF inhibits the injection of the HpaB-dependent transcriptional activator-like (TAL) effector into rice. These findings suggest that Hpa2 and HrpF form a complex to translocate T3S effectors into plant cells for pathogenesis in host rice.
21478339	We report the complete genome sequence of Burkholderia gladioli BSR3, isolated from a diseased rice sheath in South Korea.
21478444	L-Ara, an important constituent of plant cell walls, is found predominantly in the furanose rather than in the thermodynamically more stable pyranose form. Nucleotide sugar mutases have been demonstrated to interconvert UDP-Larabinopyranose (UDP-Arap) and UDP-L-arabinofuranose (UDP-Araf) in rice (Oryza sativa). These enzymes belong to a small gene family encoding the previously named Reversibly Glycosylated Proteins (RGPs). RGPs are plant-specific cytosolic proteins that tend to associate with the endomembrane system. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the RGP protein family consists of five closely related members. We characterized all five RGPs regarding their expression pattern and subcellular localizations in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Enzymatic activity assays of recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli identified three of the Arabidopsis RGP protein family members as UDP-L-Ara mutases that catalyze the formation of UDP-Araf from UDP-Arap. Coimmunoprecipitation and subsequent liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry analysis revealed a distinct interaction network between RGPs in different Arabidopsis organs. Examination of cell wall polysaccharide preparations from RGP1 and RGP2 knockout mutants showed a significant reduction in total L-Ara content (12–31%) compared with wild-type plants. Concomitant downregulation of RGP1 and RGP2 expression results in plants almost completely deficient in cell wall–derived L-Ara and exhibiting severe developmental defects.
21478449	The effects of feeding corn or rice, either raw or heat processed (HP), on apparent total tract digestibility (ATTD) and apparent ileal digestibility (AID) of nutrients and on insulin and ghrelin concentrations in the serum were studied in young pigs. Pigs were weaned at approximately 23 ± 3 d of age and weighed 7.4 ± 1.2 kg. Each of the 4 treatments was replicated 9 times, and the experimental unit was a pig individually housed. Pigs (5 males and 4 females/treatment) were fed their respective diets ad libitum from 23 to 47 d of age. At 37 d of age, the effects of dietary treatments on the fasting and postprandial concentrations of insulin and total and acylated ghrelin were studied. The ATTD of OM, GE, and ether extract were, respectively, 4.3, 5.4, and 3.6% greater (P < 0.05) for the rice than for the corn diets, but CP digestibility was not affected. Similar results were observed for AID. Heat processing of the cereal increased (P < 0.05) the ATTD by 2.1% for OM, 3.2% for GE, 7.1% for ether extract, and 2.2% for CP and tended to increase the AID of CP (P = 0.06) and starch (P = 0.09). The postprandial serum insulin response was greater and was more prolonged in pigs fed raw rice than in pigs fed raw corn (P < 0.05). In addition, the effects of HP on serum insulin response were more pronounced with corn than with rice (cereal × HP, P < 0.05). Total ghrelin concentration was not affected by treatment, but acylated ghrelin was greater (P < 0.05) at 6 h postprandially in pigs fed rice than in pigs fed raw corn. Feeding rice and HP corn increased nutrient digestibility and insulin response in the early postprandial period and increased the acylated ghrelin response in the late postprandial period compared with feeding raw corn.
21479843	This study was designed to determine effect of various plant protein sources in high-quality feed block (HQFB) on feed intake, rumen fermentation, and microbial population in swamp buffalo. Four rumen-fistulated swamp buffaloes (Bubalus bubalis) were randomly assigned according to a 4 × 4 Latin square design. Four kinds of plant protein sources (coarse rice bran (CRB), cassava hay (CH), Phaseolus calcaratus hay, and mulberry hay (MH)) were mixed in the HQFB. HQFBs were allowed to be licked at free choice, and urea-lime-treated rice straw (ULRS) were fed ad libitum. It was found that bacterial population and fungal zoospores in CH-fed group tended to be higher than those in other groups. Moreover, protozoal population in CH, P. calcaratus hay, and MH were lower than those in CRB supplemented group (P < 0.05). Cellulolytic bacterial population was highest in CH-fed group while proteolytic bacteria population was highest in P. calcaratus hay-fed group (P < 0.05). CH-fed group had higher ULRS intake than those in other groups (P < 0.05). Nutrient digestibility of CP, NDF, and ADF in CH-fed group was significantly higher than those in other groups (P < 0.05). Total VFA was highest in CH-fed group (P < 0.05). N absorption was highest in CH-fed group (P < 0.05). Based on this study, it could be concluded that cassava hay, P. calcaratus hay, and mulberry hay are potential to be used as protein sources in the HQFBs especially cassava hay.
21480266	We evaluated glycaemic response of a brown rice variant (BR) developed by cross-breeding. Subjects (n = 9) consumed 50 g carbohydrate equivalents of BR, white rice (WR) and the polished brown rice (PR) in comparison to 50 g glucose reference (GLU) in a cross-over design. Plasma glucose and insulin at 0, 15, 45, 60, 90, 120 and 180 min were measured and incremental area under the curve (IAUC) and indices for glucose (GI) and insulin (II) calculated. BR compared to PR or WR produced the lowest postprandial glycaemia (GI: 51 vs 79 vs 86) and insulinaemia (II: 39 vs 63 vs 68) irrespective of amylose content (19 vs 23 vs 26.5%). Only BR was significantly different from GLU for both plasma glucose (P = 0.012) and insulin (P = 0.013) as well as IAUC(glu) (P = 0.045) and IAUC(ins) (P = 0.031). Glycaemic and insulinaemic responses correlated positively (r = 0.550, P < 0.001). Linear trends for IAUC(glu) and IAUC(ins) indicated a greater secretion of insulin tied in with a greater glycaemic response for WR (r(2) = 0.848), moderate for PR (r(2) = 0.302) and weakest for BR (r(2) = 0.122). The brown rice variant had the lowest GI and II values but these advantages were lost with polishing.
21480275	Rice varieties with similar apparent amylose content may have different grain qualities. The development of rice quality is a dynamic process that occurs with the formation of rice kernels. In this study, physicochemical properties during the grain formation period were investigated to interpret differences in grain quality between two non-waxy rice cultivars, Wuyujing3 and 30you917, with similar apparent amylose content. There were significant differences in dynamic changes in 1000-grain weight, amylose content and pasting and thermal properties during grain formation of the two cultivars. The difference in their apparent amylose contents from 5 days after anthesis (DAA) to 15 DAA was significant, except in the late grain-filling stage. Wuyujing3 showed a slower increase in 1000-grain weight than 30you917 from 10 to 25 DAA. The transition temperatures (T(o), T(p) and T(c)) of developing grain flour of Wuyujing3 were higher than those of 30you917 during the grain formation period. Wuyujing3 showed greater stickiness (higher breakdown and peak viscosity and lower positive setback) than 30you917 according to Rapid Visco Analyser (RVA) profiling. The results suggested that the differences in cooking and eating quality parameters of the two mature rices were determined by the differences in grain filling and the dynamic changes in the main rice quality components such as amylose content, grain weight and differential scanning calorimetry and RVA properties, which will help cultivators understand the physical basis of rice quality development.
21481028	Submergence of plant organs perturbs homeostasis by limiting diffusion of oxygen, carbon dioxide and ethylene. In rice (Oryza sativa L.), the haplotype at the multigenic SUBMERGENCE1 (SUB1) locus determines whether plants survive prolonged submergence. SUB1 encodes two or three transcription factors of the group VII ethylene response factor family: SUB1A, SUB1B and SUB1C. The presence of SUB1A-1 and its strong submergence-triggered ethylene-mediated induction confers submergence tolerance through a quiescence survival strategy that inhibits gibberellin (GA)-induced carbohydrate consumption and elongation growth. SUB1C is invariably present and acts downstream of the enhancement of GA responsiveness during submergence. In this study, heterologous ectopic expression of rice SUB1A and SUB1C in Arabidopsis thaliana was used to explore conserved mechanisms of action associated with these genes using developmental, physiological and molecular metrics. As in rice transgenic plants that ectopically express SUB1A-1, Arabidopsis transgenic plants that constitutively express SUB1A displayed GA insensitivity and abscisic acid hypersensitivity. Ectopic SUB1C expression had more limited effects on development, stress responses and the transcriptome. Observation of a delayed flowering phenotype in lines over-expressing SUB1A led to the finding that inhibition of floral initiation is a component of the quiescence survival strategy in rice. Together, these analyses demonstrate conserved as well as specific roles for group VII ethylene response factors in integration of abiotic responses with development.
21481033	Cytokinin is known to have negative effects on de novo auxin-induced root formation. However, the regulatory mechanisms of root initiation by both cytokinin and auxin are poorly understood. In this study, we characterized a rice mutant, termed crown rootless5 (crl5), which produced fewer crown roots and displayed impaired initiation of crown root primordia. The expression of CRL5, which encodes a member of the large AP2/ERF transcription factor family protein, was observed in the stem region where crown root initiation occurs. Exogenous auxin treatment induced CRL5 expression without de novo protein biosynthesis, which also required the degradation of AUX/IAA proteins. A putative auxin response element in the CRL5 promoter region specifically interacted with a rice ARF, demonstrating that CRL5 may be a direct target of an ARF, similar to CRL1/ADVENTITIOUS ROOTLESS1 (ARL1) that also regulates crown root initiation. A crl1 crl5 double mutant displayed an additive phenotype, indicating that these two genes function in different genetic pathways for crown root initiation. In addition, ProACT:CRL5/WT showed a cytokinin-resistant phenotype for crown root initiation, and also up-regulated the expression of two negative regulators of cytokinin signaling, OsRR1 and OsRR2, which were downregulated in crl5. Transgenic plants that over-expressed OsRR1 under the control of the CRL5 promoter in a crl5 mutant background produced a higher number of crown roots than the crl5 plant. Taken together, these results indicate that auxin-induced CRL5 promotes crown root initiation through repression of cytokinin signaling by positively regulating type-A RR, OsRR1.
21482087	Magnaporthe oryzae has been used as a model fungal pathogen to study the molecular basis of plant-fungus interactions due to its economic and genetic importance. In this study, we identified a novel gene, Moplaa, which is the homologue of Homo sapiens PLAA encoding a phospholipase A(2)-activating protein. Moplaa is conserved in some eukaryotic organisms by multiple alignment analysis. The function of the Moplaa gene was studied using the gene target replacement method. The Moplaa deletion mutant exhibited retarded growth and conidial germination, reduced conidiation, appressorial turgor pressure and pathogenicity to rice CO-39. Reintroduction of the gene restored defects of the Moplaa deletion mutant.
21482313	An enzyme-assisted extraction used to extract all species of selenium in rice sample and a sensitive analytical method for the determination of ultratrace Se(VI), Se(IV), SeCys(2) (selenocystine) and SeMet (selenomethionine) with capillary electrophoresis-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry were firstly described in this study. The extraction method is simple, effective and can be used to extract trace selenium compounds in rice with high extraction efficiency and no altering its species. The analytical method has a detection limit of 0.1-0.9 ng Se/mL, and can be used to determine trace Se(VI), Se(IV), SeCys(2) and SeMet in rice directly without any derivatization and pre-concentration. With the help of above methods, we have successfully determined Se(VI), Se(IV), SeCys(2) and SeMet in selenium-enriched rice within 18 min with a recovery of 90-103% and a RSD (relative standard deviation, n=6) of 3-7%. Our results indicated that selenium-enriched rice contained only one species of selenium, SeMet, and its concentration is in range of 0.136-0.143 μg Se/g dried weight. The proposed method providing a realistic approach for the nutritional and toxical evaluation of different selenium compounds in nutritional supplements.
21482520	Increase of crop production is the primary goal of crop breeding. Rice grain shape is a quantitative trait that is directly related to yield traits and has a close relationship with quality traits. The evaluation of grain shape is mainly grain length, grain width, grain thickness, length/width, and length/thickness. In recent years, the quantitative genetic research on rice grain shape has made a significant progress and a number of important genes associated with rice grain shape have been cloned. This paper reviews the classic genetic analysis on rice grain traits, QTL mapping, grain shape gene cloning and functional analysis, and their application in rice breeding for super high yield.
21482531	A dwarf mutant C6PS, which has the similar phenotype as the recessive mutant Dwarf1 (d1), was produced from tissue-cultured plants of Zhonghua 11. In its progeny (T2), the ratio of tall to dwarf plants was in agreement with the expected segregation ratio (3:1) of a single Mendelian inheritance gene, which indicated that the variation of plant height is caused by a single gene. To locate the mutation, C6PS was crossed with Zhenshan 97 and Mudanjiang 8 for producing two F2 populations of F2 (CM) and F2 (CZ), respectively. The plant height in each F2 population also showed the same segregation pattern as that in T2 generation. SSR marker RM430 closely linked to Dwarf1 was preferentially used to genotype the F2 (CZ) population because C6PS showed the similar phenotype to d1 mutant. RM430 was significantly associated with plant height, which indicated that the mutant gene might be D1. Comparative sequencing of D1 between C6PS and Zhonghua 11 showed a 6 bp deletion occurred in the splice site of its ninth exon. The marker C6PS-D1L/R designed on the 6 bp deletion was co-segregated with plant height in T2 generation. The results indicated that C6PS was a new mutant of D1. This mutation led to a 26 bp deletion of the transcript and resulted in a frame-shift mutation and a premature stop codon in C6PS, which could not translate the functional Gα protein. C6PS was weakly sensitive to Brassinolide based on the leaf inclination angle test.
2148258	Ninety five samples of various Egyptian feedstuffs were investigated for the aflatoxin B1, B2, G1, and G2 means thin layer chromatography (TLC). Out of these samples 44.2% were positive (maize, rice crack, rice germ, rice germ cake, rice bran, wheat bran, cotton seed, cotton seed cake, peanut, and mixed feed for broilers, egg production, calf fattening and milk production). High percentage (90.5%) of the positive samples were contaminated with less than 100 ppb total aflatoxins. Peanut from "Ismailia" showed the highest contamination-mean of 400 ppb aflatoxin B1. The contamination relationship between kernels and shell of the same pods of the peanut was 1:7. The lowest contamination-mean was 5 ppb B1 in soya bean samples. All samples of horse bean and fish meal were negative. Aflatoxin B1 was present alone so frequently (in 76.2% of the positive samples). The relationship between the concentrations of aflatoxins B2:G1:B1 was 1:2.3:22.4. 51 different samples of foods and feeds from various Egyptian regions were collected and investigated for the nephrotoxic mycotoxin ochratoxin A means TLC. Twelve samples (23.5%) from them were designated as positive samples. The positive samples belonged to white maize, wheat, wheat bran, beans, rice germ, rice germ cake, broilers feed, egg production feed, and milk production feed; whereas the yellow maize (hybrid), soya beans, wheat soya meal, rice crack, cotton seed, cotton seed cake, and fish meal samples were negative. The contamination range was from 4 ppb to 577 ppb with an average of 58.2 +/- 22.9 ppb. Half of the positive samples was contaminated with 10-100 ppb whereas 41.7% from the positive samples had less than 10 ppb and 8.3% only had more than 100 ppb. Citrinin is existing in Egyptian food and feedstuffs. Out of 52 different samples--from various Egyptian regions-15.4% were positive. These were rice bran, rice germ, maize (white), wheat bran, cotton seed cake and fish meal. The highest contamination was in fish meal (40-70 ppb) whereas the lowest was in wheat bran (3 ppb). Mean of the contamination level was 25.9 +/- 3.4 ppb with a range of 3-70 ppb. For the first time in the Egyptian foods and feeds will be informed about the presence of the mycotoxin zearalenone with a high concentration. From several Egyptian places, 64 samples were collected (4 samples for each food or feed stuff).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
21483294	A ham and cheese sandwich every day. Fried chicken and pork rinds. White rice, white bread, and few leafy greens. Soft drinks with every meal. When interviewers asked a nationwide sample of Cubans what they ate on a typical day, and what they would put on a daily menu if they could choose whatever they wanted, these were among the top responses. Results of that landmark study revealed that a majority of Cubans eat too much sugar, not enough fruits and vegetables, and have an unhealthy predilection for fried food, red meat and saturated fats.
21483860	Ceramide kinase (CERK) is a key regulator of cell survival in dicotyledonous plants and animals. Much less is known about the roles of CERK and ceramides in mediating cellular processes in monocot plants. Here, we report the characterization of a ceramide kinase, OsCERK, from rice (Oryza sativa spp. Japonica cv. Nipponbare) and investigate the effects of ceramides on rice cell viability. OsCERK can complement the Arabidopsis CERK mutant acd5. Recombinant OsCERK has ceramide kinase activity with Michaelis-Menten kinetics and optimal activity at 7.0 pH and 40°C. Mg2+ activates OsCERK in a concentration-dependent manner. Importantly, a CXXXCXXC motif, conserved in all ceramide kinases and important for the activity of the human enzyme, is critical for OsCERK enzyme activity and in planta function. In a rice protoplast system, inhibition of CERK leads to cell death and the ratio of added ceramide and ceramide-1-phosphate, CERK's substrate and product, respectively, influences cell survival. Ceramide-induced rice cell death has apoptotic features and is an active process that requires both de novo protein synthesis and phosphorylation, respectively. Finally, mitochondria membrane potential loss previously associated with ceramide-induced cell death in Arabidopsis was also found in rice, but it occurred with different timing. OsCERK is a bona fide ceramide kinase with a functionally and evolutionarily conserved Cys-rich motif that plays an important role in modulating cell fate in plants. The vital function of the conserved motif in both human and rice CERKs suggests that the biochemical mechanism of CERKs is similar in animals and plants. Furthermore, ceramides induce cell death with similar features in monocot and dicot plants.
21484945	In this article, we propose to make morphotypological phytolith analysis of Heying site during Shang-Zhou Period by two methods: measuring based on extended depth of focus (EDF) image and measuring directly under microscope, and then compare their results. The comparison shows that the results by these two methods match each other for paleoenvironmental and agricultural analysis. Results of two methods show that Heying site's environment should be warm and moist based on the predominance of some specific phytolith assemblages. The phytolith morpho-types originated from crop plants also indicates that rice planting was the mainstay agricultural economy. In comparison, the morphotypological analysis method based on EDF image took only about 1/10 the time as the original method by directly measuring under microscope. Thus, we can process more samples and make a more thorough and systematic morphotypological phytolith analysis with the same amount of time. Furthermore, the constructed EDF image can also be archived for future examination and for education. The above experiments indicate that the morphotypological analysis method based on EDF image is very promising for phytolith analysis.
21485126
21485456	The status of international agricultural research as a global public good (GPG) has been widely accepted since the Green Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s. While the term was not used at the time of its creation, the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) system that evolved at that time has been described as a 'prime example of the promise, performance and perils of an international approach to providing GPGs'. Contemporary literature on international agricultural research as a GPG tends to support this view and focuses on how to operationalize the concept. This paper adopts a different starting point and questions this conceptualization of the CGIAR and its outputs. It questions the appropriateness of such a 'neutral' concept to a system born of the imperatives of Cold War geopolitics, and shaped by a history of attempts to secure its relevance in a changing world. This paper draws on a multi-sited, ethnographic study of a research effort highlighted by the CGIAR as an exemplar of GPG-oriented research. Behind the ubiquitous language of GPGs, 'partnership' and 'consensus', however, new forms of exclusion and restriction are emerging within everyday practice, reproducing North-South inequalities and undermining the ability of these programmes to respond to the needs of projected beneficiaries.
21486304	Plants take up both nitrate and ammonium as main nitrogen (N) sources. Although ammonium is the predominant form in anaerobic-flooded paddy soil, it has been proposed that rice and other wetland plants may take up significant amounts of nitrate formed by nitrification of ammonium in the rhizosphere. A two-component system for nitrate transport including NRT2s with a partner protein (NAR2 or NRT3.1) has been identified in Arabidopsis. We report the physiological function of another member of the NAR2 family, OsNAR2.1 in rice (Oryza sativa, ssp. Japonica, cv. Nipponbare). OsNAR2.1 was mainly expressed in roots and induced by nitrate and suppressed by ammonium and some amino acids. Knockdown of OsNAR2.1 by RNA interference synchronously suppressed expression of OsNRT2.1, OsNRT2.2 and OsNRT2.3a in the osnar2.1mutants. Both high- and low-affinity nitrate transports were greatly impaired by OsNAR2.1 knockdown. Yeast two hybridization showed that OsNAR2.1 not only interacted with OsNRT2.1/OsNRT2.2, but also with OsNRT2.3a. Taken together, the data demonstrate that OsNAR2.1 plays a key role in enabling the plant to cope with variable nitrate supply.
21486461	Human insulin-like growth factor-I (hIGF-I) is a growth factor which is highly resemble to insulin. It is essential for cell proliferation and has been proposed for treatment of various endocrine-associated diseases including growth hormone insensitivity syndrome and diabetes mellitus. In the present study, an efficient plant expression system was developed to produce biologically active recombinant hIGF-I (rhIGF-I) in transgenic rice grains. The plant-codon-optimized hIGF-I was introduced into rice via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. To enhance the stability and yield of rhIGF-I, the endoplasmic reticulum-retention signal and glutelin signal peptide were used to deliver rhIGF-I to endoplasmic reticulum for stable accumulation. We found that only glutelin signal peptide could lead to successful expression of hIGF-I and one gram of hIGF-I rice grain possessed the maximum activity level equivalent to 3.2 micro molar of commercial rhIGF-I. In vitro functional analysis showed that the rice-derived rhIGF-I was effective in inducing membrane ruffling and glucose uptake on rat skeletal muscle cells. Oral meal test with rice-containing rhIGF-I acutely reduced blood glucose levels in streptozotocin-induced and Zucker diabetic rats, whereas it had no effect in normal rats. Our findings provided an alternative expression system to produce large quantities of biologically active rhIGF-I. The provision of large quantity of recombinant proteins will promote further research on the therapeutic potential of rhIGF-I.
21486466	Proteogenomics aims to utilize experimental proteome information for refinement of genome annotation. Since mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics approaches provide large-scale peptide sequencing data with high throughput, a data repository for shotgun proteogenomics would represent a valuable source of gene expression evidence at the translational level for genome re-annotation. Here, we present OryzaPG-DB, a rice proteome database based on shotgun proteogenomics, which incorporates the genomic features of experimental shotgun proteomics data. This version of the database was created from the results of 27 nanoLC-MS/MS runs on a hybrid ion trap-orbitrap mass spectrometer, which offers high accuracy for analyzing tryptic digests from undifferentiated cultured rice cells. Peptides were identified by searching the product ion spectra against the protein, cDNA, transcript and genome databases from Michigan State University, and were mapped to the rice genome. Approximately 3200 genes were covered by these peptides and 40 of them contained novel genomic features. Users can search, download or navigate the database per chromosome, gene, protein, cDNA or transcript and download the updated annotations in standard GFF3 format, with visualization in PNG format. In addition, the database scheme of OryzaPG was designed to be generic and can be reused to host similar proteogenomic information for other species. OryzaPG is the first proteogenomics-based database of the rice proteome, providing peptide-based expression profiles, together with the corresponding genomic origin, including the annotation of novelty for each peptide. The OryzaPG database was constructed and is freely available at http://oryzapg.iab.keio.ac.jp/.
21486524	To identify food acquisition patterns in Brazil and relate them to the sociodemographic characteristics of the household. A cross-sectional national Household Budget Survey (HBS). Principal component factor analysis was used to derive food patterns (factors) on the basis of the acquisition of food classified into thirty-two food groups. The source of data originates from the 2002-2003 HBS carried out by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics between June 2002 and July 2003 using a representative sample of all Brazilian households. A total of 48 470 households allocated into 443 strata of households that were geographically and socio-economically homogeneous as a study unit. We identified two patterns of food acquisition. The first, named 'dual', was characterized by dairy, fruit, fruit juice, vegetables, processed meat, soft drinks, sweets, bread and margarine, and by inverse correlations with Brazilian staple foods. In contrast, the second pattern, named 'traditional', was characterized by rice, beans, manioc, flour, milk and sugar. The 'dual' pattern was associated with higher household educational level, income and the average age of adults on the strata, whereas the 'traditional' presented higher loadings in less-educated households and in the rural setting. Dietary patterns described here suggest that policies and programmes to promote healthy eating need to consider that healthy and non-healthy foods may be integrated within [corrected] the same pattern.
21487048	We examined ways in which the Brown planthopper induced008a (Bphi008a; AY256682) gene of rice (Oryza sativa) enhances the plant's resistance to a specialist herbivore, the brown planthopper (BPH; Nilaparvata lugens). Measurement of the expression levels of ethylene synthases and of ethylene emissions showed that BPH feeding rapidly initiated the ethylene signaling pathway and up-regulated Bphi008a transcript levels after 6 to 96 h of feeding. In contrast, blocking ethylene transduction (using 1-methylcyclopropene) reduced Bphi008a transcript levels in wild-type plants fed upon by BPH. In vitro kinase assays showed that Bphi008a can be phosphorylated by rice Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase5 (OsMPK5), and yeast two-hybrid assays demonstrated that the carboxyl-terminal proline-rich region of Bphi008a interacts directly with this kinase. Furthermore, bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays showed that this interaction occurs in the nucleus. Subsequently, we found that Bphi008a up-regulation and down-regulation were accompanied by different changes in transcription levels of OsMPK5, OsMPK12, OsMPK13, and OsMPK17 in transgenic plants. Immunoblot analysis also showed that the OsMPK5 protein level increased in overexpressing plants and decreased in RNA interference plants after BPH feeding. In transgenic lines, changes in the expression levels of several enzymes that are important components of the defenses against the BPH were also observed. Finally, yeast two-hybrid screening results showed that Bphi008a is able to interact with a b-ZIP transcription factor (OsbZIP60) and a RNA polymerase polypeptide (SDRP).
21487200	Denitrifiers can produce and consume nitrous oxide (N(2)O). While little N(2)O is emitted from rice paddy soil, the same soil produces N(2)O when the land is drained and used for upland crop cultivation. In this study, we collected soils from two types of fields each at three locations in Japan; one type of field had been used for continuous cultivation of rice and the other for rotational cultivation of rice and soybean. Active denitrifiers were isolated from these soils using a functional single-cell isolation method, and their taxonomy and denitrifying properties were examined. A total of 110 denitrifiers were obtained, including those previously detected by a culture-independent analysis. Strains belonging to the genus Pseudogulbenkiania were dominant at all locations, suggesting that Pseudogulbenkiania denitrifiers are ubiquitous in various rice paddy soils. Potential denitrifying activity was similar among the strains, regardless of the differences in taxonomic position and soil of origin. However, relative amounts of N(2) in denitrification end products varied among strains isolated from different locations. Our results also showed that crop rotation had minimal impact on the functional diversity of the denitrifying strains. These results indicate that soil and other environmental factors, excluding cropping systems, could select for N(2)-producing denitrifiers.
21487717	Mine waste water at South Kaliapani usually contains toxic levels of hexavalent Cr(VI). The present in situ study was conducted at South Kaliapani chromite mine area in Orissa state, India, to assess the phytoremediation ability of three plants, namely, rice (Oryza sativa L.), paragrass (Brachiaria mutica), and an aquatic weed (Eichhornia crassipes), in attenuating Cr(VI) from mine waste water and to correlate the bio-concentration factors (BCF) of Cr. Water hyacinth (E. crassipes) showed 24% to 54% reduction whereas paragrass (B. mutica) was able to reduce 18% to 33% of Cr(VI) from mine water. This reduction was studied over a period of 100 days of plant growth. The reduction was observed through a passage of a sum total of 2,000 sq. ft. cultivated plots and ponds separately. Reduction in Cr(VI) content in mine water varies with plant age as well as with the distance of passage. Cr accumulation and BCF values increased with high soil Cr levels as well as the age of plants. High BCF and transportation index (Ti) values, i.e., 10,924 and 32.09, respectively, were noted for water hyacinth. The Ti values indicated that the root-to-shoot translocation of Cr was very high after 100 days of growth. The total accumulation rate was maximum (8.29 mg Cr kg dry biomass(-1) day (-1)) in paragrass. The BCF values for roots were noted to be higher than those of leaves, stems, and grains of the 125-day-old plants. Hence, paragrass and water hyacinth may be used as tools of phytoremediation to combat the problem of in situ Cr contamination.
2148966	Three ATPase subunit 6 (atp6) genes of rice mitochondria were isolated, one from normal and two from cms-Bo male-sterile cytoplasms, in order to determine whether the extra atp6 gene in cms-Bo rice plays a role in cytoplasmic male-sterility (CMS). The nucleotide sequences of all three genes were determined and analysis showed a chimeric atp6 gene (urf-rmc) as well as a normal atp6 gene in cms-Bo cytoplasm, but only the normal atp6 gene in normal cytoplasm. The urf-rmc gene is completely homologous to the normal atp6 gene from at least position -426 in the 5' flanking region to position +511 downstream from the initiation codon ATG: however, the following downstream sequence shows no homology with the normal rice atp6 gene, or any other reported sequence. Introduction of the restorer of fertility gene altered transcription of the urf-rmc gene but not the atp6 gene, indicating participation of the chimeric gene in the expression of CMS. Southern blot analysis showed that the urf-rmc gene was generated by an intramolecular recombination event in mitochondrial DNA, and the homologous recombination point between the atp6 gene and the opposite ancestral sequence was identified as 5'-TTCCCTC-3'.
21489784	To address the dispensing of this growing volume, a study on utilization of jatropha (Jatropha curcas) deoiled cake through compost production was carried out. The deoiled cake was composted with rice straw, four different animal dung (cow dung, buffalo dung, horse dung and goat dung) and hen droppings in different proportions followed by assessment, and comparison of biochemical characteristics among finished composts. Nutrient content in finished compost was within the desired level whereas metals such as copper, lead and nickel were much below the maximum allowable concentrations. Although a few finished material contained phorbol ester (0.12 mg/g), but it was far below the original level found in the deoiled cake. Such a study indicates that a huge volume of jatropha deoiled cake can be eliminated through composting.
21489969	Rice is one of the few crops able to withstand periods of partial or even complete submergence. One of the adaptive traits of rice is the constitutive presence and further development of aerenchyma which enables oxygen to be transported to submerged organs. The development of lysigenous aerenchyma is promoted by ethylene accumulating within the submerged plant tissues, although other signalling mechanisms may also co-exist. In this study, aerenchyma development was analysed in two rice (Oryza sativa) varieties, 'FR13A' and 'Arborio Precoce', which show opposite traits in flooding response in terms of internode elongation and survival. The growth and survival of rice varieties under submergence was investigated in the leaf sheath of 'FR13A' and 'Arborio Precoce'. The possible involvement of ethylene and reactive oxygen species (ROS) was evaluated in relation to aerenchyma formation. Cell viability and DNA fragmentation were determined by FDA/FM4-64 staining and TUNEL assay, respectively. Ethylene production was monitored by gas chromatography and by analysing ACO gene expression. ROS production was measured by using Amplex Red assay kit and the fluorescent dye DCFH(2)-DA. The expression of APX1 was also evaluated. AVG and DPI solutions were used to test the effect of inhibiting ethylene biosynthesis and ROS production, respectively. Both the varieties displayed constitutive lysigenous aerenchyma formation, which was further enhanced when submerged. 'Arborio Precoce', which is characterized by fast elongation when submerged, showed active ethylene biosynthetic machinery associated with increased aerenchymatous areas. 'FR13A', which harbours the Sub1A gene that limits growth during oxygen deprivation, did not show any increase in ethylene production after submersion but still displayed increased aerenchyma. Hydrogen peroxide levels increased in 'FR13A' but not in 'Arborio Precoce'. While ethylene controls aerenchyma formation in the fast-elongating 'Arborio Precoce' variety, in 'FR13A' ROS accumulation plays an important role.
21490163	Rice (Oryza sativa) takes up arsenite mainly through the silicic acid transport pathway. Understanding the uptake and sequestration of arsenic (As) into the rice plant is important for developing strategies to reduce As concentration in rice grain. In this study, the cellular and subcellular distributions of As and silicon (Si) in rice roots were investigated using high-pressure freezing, high-resolution secondary ion mass spectrometry, and transmission electron microscopy. Rice plants, both the lsi2 mutant lacking the Si/arsenite efflux transporter Lsi2 and its wild-type cultivar, with or without an iron plaque, were treated with arsenate or arsenite. The formation of iron plaque on the root surface resulted in strong accumulation of As and phosphorous on the epidermis. The lsi2 mutant showed stronger As accumulation in the endodermal vacuoles, where the Lsi2 transporter is located in the plasma membranes, than the wild-type line. As also accumulated in the vacuoles of some xylem parenchyma cells and in some pericycle cells, particularly in the wild-type mature root zone. Vacuolar accumulation of As is associated with sulfur, suggesting that As may be stored as arsenite-phytochelatin complexes. Si was localized in the cell walls of the endodermal cells with little apparent effect of the Lsi2 mutation on its distribution. This study reveals the vacuolar sequestration of As in rice roots and contrasting patterns of As and Si subcellular localization, despite both being transported across the plasma membranes by the same transporters.
21491156	In the present study, the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the regulation of lateral root (LR) formation in rice was examined. Application of sodium nitroprusside (SNP; a NO donor) and indole-3-butyric acid (IBA; a naturally occurring auxin) to rice seedlings induced LR formation. The effect is specific for NO because the NO scavenger 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3- oxide (cPTIO) blocked the action of SNP and IBA. Endogenous NO was detected by the specific fluorescence probe 4-amino-5-methylamino-2',7'-difluorofluorescein diacetate. SNP- and IBA-induced NO fluorescence was specifically suppressed by cPTIO. Nitrate reductase (NR) inhibitor sodium tungstate completely inhibited IBA-induced LR formation and NO fluorescence. However, nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N (G)-nitro-L: -arginine methyl ester hydrochloride slightly reduced IBA-induced LR formation and NO generation. It appears that NO generation that occurs in response to IBA might primarily involve NR activity. Moreover, NO production caused by SNP and IBA was localized in root area corresponding to LR emergence. The effects of Ca(2+) chelators, Ca(2+)-channel inhibitors, and calmodulin antagonists on LR formation induced by SNP and IBA were also examined. All these inhibitors were effective in reducing the action of SNP and IBA. However, Ca(2+) chelators and Ca(2+)-channel inhibitors had no effect on SNP- and IBA-induced NO generation. It is concluded that cytosolic levels of Ca(2+) may regulate SNP and IBA action through calmodulin-dependent mechanism.
21491516	Structural phase-controlled formation of binary Co(2)P and CoP nanocrystals is achieved by reacting cobalt(II) oleate with trioctylphosphine. In the absence of oleylamine, Co(2)P nanowires are formed at both 290 and 320 °C. In the presence of oleylamine, Co(2)P nanorods are formed at 290 °C, and CoP nanorods are formed at 320 °C. With the simultaneous reaction of iron(III) oleate and cobalt(II) oleate with trioctylphosphine in the presence of oleylamine, ternary Co(2)P-type cobalt-iron phosphide nanostructures are produced at both 290 and 320 °C, corresponding to rice-shaped Co(1.5)Fe(0.5)P nanorods and split Co(1.7)Fe(0.3)P nanostructures, respectively. The controlled incorporation of iron into cobalt phosphide can alter the magnetic properties from paramagnetic binary Co(2)P to ferromagnetic Co(2)P-type ternary cobalt-iron phosphide nanostructures. Meanwhile, the time-dependent morphological evolution from small nanodots/nanorods, through seeded growth to unique split nanostructures is demonstrated in one-pot reaction at 320 °C.
21491592	A simple and rapid method based on homogeneous liquid-liquid extraction coupled to HPLC with fluorescence detection was developed for the determination of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) in the rice and grain samples after post-column derivatization. The proposed method eliminated the use of immunoaffinity columns for clean-up in the determination of AFB1. The parameters affecting recovery and preconcentration such as type and volume of organic solvent, volume ratio of water/methanol, concentration of phase separator reagent and extraction time were optimized. Under the optimized conditions, the calibration graph was linear in the concentration range of 0.01-1.0 ng/g with the detection limit of 0.003 ng/g. This method was successfully applied for the analysis of AFB1 in different cereal samples.
21492454	Milling yield and eating quality are two important grain quality traits in rice. To identify the genes involved in these two traits, we performed a deep transcriptional analysis of developing seeds using both massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) and sequencing-by-synthesis (SBS). Five MPSS and five SBS libraries were constructed from 6-day-old developing seeds of Cypress (high milling yield), LaGrue (low milling yield), Ilpumbyeo (high eating quality), YR15965 (low eating quality), and Nipponbare (control). The transcriptomes revealed by MPSS and SBS had a high correlation co-efficient (0.81 to 0.90), and about 70% of the transcripts were commonly identified in both types of the libraries. SBS, however, identified 30% more transcripts than MPSS. Among the highly expressed genes in Cypress and Ilpumbyeo, over 100 conserved cis regulatory elements were identified. Numerous specifically expressed transcription factor (TF) genes were identified in Cypress (282), LaGrue (312), Ilpumbyeo (363), YR15965 (260), and Nipponbare (357). Many key grain quality-related genes (i.e., genes involved in starch metabolism, aspartate amino acid metabolism, storage and allergenic protein synthesis, and seed maturation) that were expressed at high levels underwent alternative splicing and produced antisense transcripts either in Cypress or Ilpumbyeo. Further, a time course RT-PCR analysis confirmed a higher expression level of genes involved in starch metabolism such as those encoding ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) and granule bound starch synthase I (GBSS I) in Cypress than that in LaGrue during early seed development. This study represents the most comprehensive analysis of the developing seed transcriptome of rice available to date. Using two high throughput sequencing methods, we identified many differentially expressed genes that may affect milling yield or eating quality in rice. Many of the identified genes are involved in the biosynthesis of starch, aspartate family amino acids, and storage proteins. Some of the differentially expressed genes could be useful for the development of molecular markers if they are located in a known QTL region for milling yield or eating quality in the rice genome. Therefore, our comprehensive and deep survey of the developing seed transcriptome in five rice cultivars has provided a rich genomic resource for further elucidating the molecular basis of grain quality in rice.
21493662	Starch-branching enzyme catalyzes the cleavage of α-1, 4-linkages and the subsequent transfer of α-1,4 glucan to form an α-1,6 branch point in amylopectin. Sequence analysis of the rice-branching enzyme I (BEI) indicated a modular structure in which the central α-amylase domain is flanked on each side by the N-terminal carbohydrate-binding module 48 and the α-amylase C-domain. We determined the crystal structure of BEI at a resolution of 1.9 Å by molecular replacement using the Escherichia coli glycogen BE as a search model. Despite three modular structures, BEI is roughly ellipsoidal in shape with two globular domains that form a prominent groove which is proposed to serve as the α-polyglucan-binding site. Amino acid residues Asp344 and Glu399, which are postulated to play an essential role in catalysis as a nucleophile and a general acid/base, respectively, are located at a central cleft in the groove. Moreover, structural comparison revealed that in BEI, extended loop structures cause a narrowing of the substrate-binding site, whereas shortened loop structures make a larger space at the corresponding subsite in the Klebsiella pneumoniae pullulanase. This structural difference might be attributed to distinct catalytic reactions, transglycosylation and hydrolysis, respectively, by BEI and pullulanase.
21493745	Transport of vacuolar proteins from Golgi apparatus or trans-Golgi network (TGN) to vacuoles is a receptor-mediated process via an intermediate membrane-bound prevacuolar compartment (PVC) in plant cells. Both vacuolar sorting receptor (VSR) and receptor homology region-transmembrane domain-RING-H2 (RMR) proteins have been shown to function in transporting storage proteins to protein storage vacuole (PSV), but little is known about the nature of the PVC for the PSV pathway. Here, we use the rice RMR1 (OsRMR1) as a probe to study the PSV pathway in plants. Immunogold electron microscopy (EM) with specific OsRMR1 antibodies showed that OsRMR1 proteins were found in the Golgi apparatus, TGN, and a distinct organelle with characteristics of PVC in both rice culture cells and developing rice seeds, as well as the protein body type II (PBII) or PSV in developing rice seeds. This organelle, also found in both tobacco BY-2 and Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells, is morphologically distinct from the VSR-positive multivesicular lytic PVC or multivesicular body (MVB) and thus represent a PVC for the PSV pathway that we name storage PVC (sPVC). Further in vivo and in vitro interaction studies using truncated OsRMR1 proteins secreted into the culture media of transgenic BY-2 suspension cells demonstrated that OsRMR1 functions as a sorting receptor in transporting vicilin-like storage proteins.
21494323	Cyanate is toxic to all organisms. Cyanase converts cyanate to CO₂ and NH₃ in a bicarbonate-dependent reaction. The biophysical functions and biochemical characteristics of plant cyanases are poorly studied, although it has been investigated in a variety of proteobacteria, cyanobacteria and fungi. In this study, we characterised plant cyanases from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (AtCYN and OsCYN). Prokaryotic-expressed AtCYN and OsCYN both showed cyanase activity in vitro. Temperature had a similar influence on the activity of both cyanases, but pH had a differential impact on AtCYN and OsCYN activity. Homology modelling provided models of monomers of AtCYN and OsCYN, and a coimmunoprecipitation assay and gel filtration indicated that AtCYN and OsCYN formed homodecamers. The analysis of single-residue mutants of AtCYN indicated that the conserved catalytic residues also contributed to the stability of the homodecamer. KCNO treatment inhibited Arabidopsis germination and early seedling growth. Plants containing AtCYN or OsCYN exhibited resistance to KCNO stress, which demonstrated that one role of cyanases in plants is detoxification. Transcription level of AtCYN was higher in the flower than in other organs of Arabidopsis. AtCYN transcription was not significantly affected by KCNO treatment in Arabidopsis, but was induced by salt stress. This research broadens our knowledge on plant detoxification of cyanate via cyanase.
21494675	The composition of amylopectin is the determinant of rice eating quality under certain threshold of protein content and the ratio of amylose and amylopectin. In molecular biology level, the fine structure of amylopectin is determined by relative activities of starch branching enzyme (SBE), granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS), and soluble starch synthase (SSS) in rice grain under the same ADP-Glucose level. But the underlying mechanism of eating quality in molecular biology level remains unclear. This paper reports the differences on major parameters such as SNP and insertion-deletion sites, RNA expressions, and enzyme activities associated with eating quality of japonica varieties. Eight japonica rice varieties with significant differences in various eating quality parameters such as palatability and protein content were used in this experiment. Association analysis between nucleotide polymorphism and eating quality showed that S12 and S13 loci in SBE1, S55 in SSS1, S58 in SSS2A were significantly associated with apparent amylose content, alkali digestion value, setback viscosity, consistency viscosity, pasting temperature, which explained most of the variation in apparent amylose content, setback viscosity, and consistency viscosity; and explained almost all variations in alkali digestion value and pasting temperature. Thirty-five SNPs and insertion-deletions from SBE1, SBE3, GBSS1, SSS1, and SSS2A differentiated high or intermediate palatability rice varieties from low palatability rice varieties. Correlation analysis between enzyme activities and eating quality properties revealed that SBE25 and SSS15/W15 were positively correlated with palatability, whereas GBSS10 and GBSS15 were negatively correlated. Gene expressions showed that SBE1 and SBE3 expressions in high palatability varieties tended to be higher than middle and low palatability varieties. Collectively, SBE1, SBE3, SSS1, and SSS2A, especially SBE1 and SBE3 could improve eating quality, but GBSS1 decreased eating quality. The results indicated the possibility of developing high palatability cultivars through modification of key genes related to japonica rice eating quality formation in starch biosynthesis.
21496218	Hydrolysis of cellulose requires the action of the cellulolytic enzymes endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase and β-glucosidase. The expression ratios and synergetic effects of these enzymes significantly influence the extent and specific rate of cellulose degradation. In this study, using our previously developed method to optimize cellulase-expression levels in yeast, we constructed a diploid Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain optimized for expression of cellulolytic enzymes, and attempted to improve the cellulose-degradation activity and enable direct ethanol production from rice straw, one of the most abundant sources of lignocellulosic biomass. The engineered diploid strain, which contained multiple copies of three cellulase genes integrated into its genome, was precultured in molasses medium (381.4 mU/g wet cell), and displayed approximately six-fold higher phosphoric acid swollen cellulose (PASC) degradation activity than the parent haploid strain (63.5 mU/g wet cell). When used to ferment PASC, the diploid strain produced 7.6 g/l ethanol in 72 hours, with an ethanol yield that achieved 75% of the theoretical value, and also produced 7.5 g/l ethanol from pretreated rice straw in 72 hours. We have developed diploid yeast strain optimized for expression of cellulolytic enzymes, which is capable of directly fermenting from cellulosic materials. Although this is a proof-of-concept study, it is to our knowledge, the first report of ethanol production from agricultural waste biomass using cellulolytic enzyme-expressing yeast without the addition of exogenous enzymes. Our results suggest that combining multigene expression optimization and diploidization in yeast is a promising approach for enhancing ethanol production from various types of lignocellulosic biomass.
21496380	Relapses are frequently observed in subjects with chronic tendinopathies. Corticosteroid injections are usually performed with positive results, but are uncomfortable for the patient and not free from side effects. The aim of this pilot study is to evaluate the short-term efficacy and tolerability of an occlusive Betamethasone Valerate medicated Plaster (BMVP). Fifteen subjects with relapses of chronic tendinopathies (clinical and ultrasound diagnosis) were enrolled, and treated according to RICE (Rest - Ice - Compression - Elevation) protocol. An BMVP plaster was also applied on the affected tendon. Clinical examination, at baseline and after 7, 14, 21 and 28 days, included pain (VAS at rest and during activities) and functional evaluation. Local side effects on the area and drop-outs were also recorded. Pain, both at rest and during activities, significantly decreased at 28 days (from 3.7 ± 2.7 to 1.1 ± 1.7 p < 0.01, and from 7.3 ± 1.7 to 3.3 ± 1.4 p < 0.0000, respectively). Moreover, the patients reported a significant improvement in the functional limitation. Five subjects dropped out of the study. No side effects were reported. The release of the steroid in pharmacologically-active concentrations over 12 - 24 hours and the good penetration of the drug in subcutaneous tissues explain the positive results. BMVP application may be considered a reliable first therapeutic approach in relapses of chronic tendinopathies.
21496857	Our understanding of archaeal viruses has been limited by the lack of genetic systems for examining viral function. We describe the construction of an infectious clone for the archaeal virus Sulfolobus turreted icosahedral virus (STIV). STIV was isolated from a high temperature (82°C) acidic (pH 2.2) hot spring in Yellowstone National Park and replicates in the archaeal model organism Sulfolobus solfataricus (Rice et al., 2004). While STIV is one of most studied archaeal viruses, little is known about its replication cycle. The development of an STIV infectious clone allows for directed gene disruptions and detailed genetic analysis of the virus. The utility of the STIV infectious clone was demonstrated by gene disruption of STIV open reading frame (ORF) B116 which resulted in crippled virus replication, while disruption of ORFs A197, C381 and B345 was lethal for virus replication.
21497440	Cyanobacteria in freshwater ecosystems can present a harmful effect on growth and development of plants through irrigation with contaminated water. In this study, the effects of microcystins (MCs)-containing cyanobacteria extract (CE) on DNA damage of apple, rape and rice were investigated to explore the phytotoxic mechanism of MCs through DNA fragmentation and RAPD analysis. Determination of DNA fragmentation by fluorescent dye DAPI showed that significant DNA damage was observed in rice seedlings after exposure to CE while DNA fragmentation in rape seedlings and apple cultures did not differ significantly between treatment and control groups. Qualitative characterization of genomic DNA fragmentation by agarose gel electrophoresis supported the quantitative determination using DAPI. The main changes in RAPD profiles of rape seedlings following exposure of lower doses of CE were variation in band intensity for the primers F03 and S01, while higher doses of CE caused loss of normal bands and appearance of new bands except band intensity changes. The data presented here demonstrate that DNA damage in plants occurs following exposure of microcystins, and the polymorphic RAPDs may be used as an investigation tool for environmental toxicology and as a useful biomarker for the detection of genotoxic effects of microcystins on plants.
21497549	In this study, sufu, a Chinese traditional fermented product of soybean, was prepared by ripening salted tofu cubes in the mash of Aspergillus oryzae-fermented rice-soybean koji possessing various hydrolytic enzymes at 25°C, 37°C and 45°C. Antioxidant activity including 2,2-diphenyl-2-picylhydoxyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging activity, Fe(2+)-chelating ability and reducing power exerted by the methanol extract of sufu was determined and compared with that of the non-fermented tofu extract. It was found that antioxidant activity of the sufu extracts was, generally, higher than the non-fermented tofu extract. Ripening temperature and the duration of ripening period affected the antioxidant activity of the sufu extracts. Taking into account of extraction yields, the sufu product ripened at 45°C for 16 days showed the most profound enhancement in the DPPH radical-scavenging effect and Fe(2+)-iron-chelating ability, which is 3.4 and 11.5 folds, respectively, that noted with the non-fermented tofu.
21497711	Here we characterized a classic rice (Oryza sativa) drooping leaf2 mutant (named dl2). The dl2 allele affects both the midrib development and the total leaf venation pattern. Leaf anatomy results revealed the central vein lacks both clear cells and the adaxial small vascular bundle in dl2 mutant, which seemed to cause the drooping leaf phenotype. The dl2 leaves contain more small veins, and the size of the vascular cylinder in dl2 leaf is also altered. Furthermore, similar anatomy alteration was found in the dl2 roots. A reduction in the number of xylem and phloem poles in the central vascular cylinder in dl2 roots was observed and the diameter of cortical cell is also reduced. In addition, the alterations of the vegetative development such as the longer leaf blade and fewer adventitious and lateral roots were also observed in dl2. The physiological mechanism underlying the morphological and vascular alterations of dl2 was further studied. The result demonstrated that the dl2 vascular patterning distortions are strictly associated with a defective PAT (polar auxin transport) activity and sensitivity to different classes of polar auxin transport inhibitors. Finally, the drooping leaf phenotype of dl2 is coupled to a defective response to auxin.
21497712	A high copy number, selectable marker gene (SMG)-free Agrobacterium binary vector pBin19ΔnptII was constructed by deleting the nptII gene from pBin19. The binary vectors with the RK2 and pVS replication origins exist in 12 and 3 copies, respectively, in Agrobacterium. The tobacco osmotin gene (ap24) was cloned in pBin19ΔnptII and the resultant plasmid pBin19ΔnptII-ap24 was mobilized into the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain C58C1 Rif(r) harbouring the single-copy cointegrate vector pGV2260::pSSJ1. The T-DNA of the cointegrate vector harboured the hph (SMG) and gus genes. Transformation of Oryza sativa L. var. Pusa Basmati1 with Agrobacterium tumefaciens (pGV2260::pSSJ1, pBin19ΔnptII-ap24) yielded 14 independent hyg+/GUS+ transgenic plants. Southern blot analysis with hph and ap24 probes revealed that 12 out of the 14 transgenic plants were co-transformed and harboured hph, gus and ap24 genes. The new multi-copy binary vector yielded 86% co-transformation efficiency. SMG elimination by genetic separation of the cointegrate T-DNA with the hph/gus genes and binary vector T-DNA with the ap24 gene was accomplished in four out of ten primary co-transformants that were forwarded to the T₁ generation.
21497713	CaRma1H1 was previously identified as a hot pepper drought-induced RING E3 Ub ligase. We have identified five putative proteins that display a significant sequence identity with CaRma1H1 in the rice genome database (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/RiceGE). These five rice paralogs possess a single RING motif in their N-terminal regions, consistent with the notion that RING proteins are encoded by a multi-gene family. Therefore, these proteins were named OsRDCPs (Oryza sativa RING domain-containing proteins). Among these paralogs, OsRDCP1 was induced by drought stress, whereas the other OsRDCP members were constitutively expressed, with OsRDCP4 transcripts expressed at the highest level in rice seedlings. osrdcp1 loss-of-function knockout mutant and OsRDCP1-overexpressing transgenic rice plants were developed. Phenotypic analysis showed that wild-type plants and the homozygous osrdcp1 G2 mutant line displayed similar phenotypes under normal growth conditions and in response to drought stress. This may be due to complementation by other OsRDCP paralogs. In contrast, 35S:OsRDCP1 T2 transgenic rice plants exhibited improved tolerance to severe water deficits. Although the physiological function of OsRDCP1 remains unclear, there are several possible mechanisms for its involvement in a subset of physiological responses to counteract dehydration stress in rice plants.
21497903	The mesonephroi of two groups of Rana esculenta collected from two rice fields near Pavia, one relatively unpolluted and one polluted, were morphologically and histochemically investigated. Light and electron microscopy analyses were performed and certain enzyme activities studied (succinic dehydrogenase, SDH, alkaline phosphatase, AlkPase, acid phosphatase, AcPase, catalase, CAT, and NOS-related nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphatase, NOS/NADPHd). The expression of the inducible NOS (iNOS) was evaluated through immunohistochemistry. In the renal parenchyma of the polluted group some structural modifications, mainly in the glomeruli and the proximal tubule epithelium, were observed. Peritubular inflammatory foci in most polluted samples were often found to be in combination with parasitic cysts. However, no necrotic processes were found in the renal parenchyma. Compared to controls, the histochemical studies on contaminated frogs evidenced an increase of the AcPase, NOS and CAT activities, and of the iNOS immunoexpression as well. All the results showed a good correspondence between the biomarkers responses and the environmental stress conditions. Overall, we can state that studying the sub-lethal effects of contamination in amphibians naturally exposed to toxicants has shown to be significant for the assessment of site-specific risk and potential hazards behind the phenomenon of progressive amphibian decline.
21498073	A simple process (the direct-saccharification-of-culms (DiSC) process) to produce ethanol from rice straw culms, accumulating significant amounts of soft carbohydrates (SCs: glucose, fructose, sucrose, starch and β-1,3-1,4-glucan) was developed. This study focused on fully mature culms of cv. Leafstar, containing 69.2% (w/w of dried culms) hexoses from SCs and cellulose. Commercially-available wind-separation equipment successfully prepared a culm-rich fraction with a SC recovery of 83.1% (w/w) from rice straw flakes (54.1% of total weight of rice straw). The fraction was suspended in water (20%, w/w) for starch liquefaction, and the suspension was subjected to a simultaneous saccharification and fermentation with yeast, yielding 5.6% (w/v) ethanol (86% of the theoretical yield from whole hexoses in the fraction) after 24h fermentation. Thus, the DiSC process produced highly-concentrated ethanol from rice straw in a one vat process without any harsh thermo-chemical pretreatments.
21499832	Importin β1 interacts with nuclear transport factors and mediates the import of nuclear proteins. We isolated a pollen-expressed gene, rice Importin β1 (OsImpβ1), from a T-DNA insertional population that was trapped by a promoterless β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. The GUS reporter was expressed in the anthers and ovaries from early through mature developmental stages. Its expression was also observed in all floral organs. However, these patterns changed as the spikelet developed. T-DNA was inserted into the OsImpβ1 gene at 339 bp downstream from the translation initiation site. We obtained another T-DNA insertional allele by searching the flanking sequence tag database. In both lines, the wild-type and T-DNA-carrying progeny segregated at a ratio close to 1:1. The latter genotype was heterozygous (OsImpβ1/osimpβ1). Reciprocal crosses between WT and heterozygous plants demonstrated that the mutant alleles could not be transmitted through the male gametophyte. Close examination of the heterozygous anthers revealed that the mutant pollen matured normally. However, in vitro assays showed that tube elongation was hampered in the mutant grains. These results indicate that OsImpβ1 is specifically required for pollen tube elongation.
21499841	Recent genomic and genetic analyses based on Arabidopsis suggest that ubiquitination plays crucial roles in the plant response to abiotic stress and the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA). However, few such studies have been reported in rice as a monocotyledonous model plant. Taking advantage of strategies in biochemistry, molecular cell biology and genetics, the RING-finger containing E3 ligase OsSDIR1 (Oryza sativa SALT-AND DROUGHT-INDUCED RING FINGER 1) was found to be a candidate drought tolerance gene for engineering of crop plants. The expression of OsSDIR1 was detected in all tissues of rice and up-regulated by drought and NaCl, but not by ABA. In vitro ubiquitination assays demonstrated that OsSDIR1 is a functional E3 ubiquitin ligase and that the RING finger region is required for its activity. OsSDIR1 could complement the drought sensitive phenotype of the sdir1 mutant and overexpressing transgenic Arabidopsis were more sensitive to ABA, indicating that the OsSDIR1 gene is a functional ortholog of SDIR1. Upon drought treatment, the OsSDIR1-transgenic rice showed strong drought tolerance compared to control plants. Analysis of the stomata aperture revealed that there were more closed stomatal pores in transgenic plants than those of control plants. This result was also confirmed by the water loss assay and leaf related water content (RWC) measurements during drought treatment. Thus, we demonstrated that monocot- and dicot- SDIR1s are conserved yet have diverse functions.
21501172	The first committed step in sterol biosynthesis in plants involves the cyclization of 2,3-oxidosqualene by the oxidosqualene cyclase (OSC) enzyme cycloartenol synthase. 2,3-Oxidosqualene is also a precursor for triterpene synthesis. Antimicrobial triterpenes are common in dicots, but seldom found in monocots, with the notable exception of oat. Here, through genome mining and metabolic engineering, we investigate the potential for triterpene synthesis in rice. The first two steps in the oat triterpene pathway are catalysed by a divergent OSC (AsbAS1) and a cytochrome P450 (CYP51). The genes for these enzymes form part of a metabolic gene cluster. To investigate the origins of triterpene synthesis in monocots, we analysed systematically the OSC and CYP51 gene families in rice. We also engineered rice for elevated triterpene content. We discovered a total of 12 OSC and 12 CYP51 genes in rice and uncovered key events in the evolution of triterpene synthesis. We further showed that the expression of AsbAS1 in rice leads to the accumulation of the simple triterpene, β-amyrin. These findings provide new insights into the evolution of triterpene synthesis in monocots and open up opportunities for metabolic engineering for disease resistance in rice and other cereals.
21501199	In West Africa, lineage splitting between the M and S molecular forms of the major Afro-tropical malaria mosquito, Anopheles gambiae (Diptera: Culicidae), is thought to be driven by ecological divergence, occurring mainly at the larval stage. Here, we present evidence for habitat segregation between the two molecular forms in and around irrigated rice fields located within the humid savannahs of western Burkina Faso. Longitudinal sampling of adult mosquitoes emerging from a range of breeding sites distributed along a transect extending from the heart of the rice field area into the surrounding savannah was conducted from June to November 2009. Analysis revealed that the two molecular forms and their sibling species Anopheles arabiensis are not randomly distributed in the area. A major ecological gradient was extracted in relation to the perimeter of the rice fields. The M form was associated with larger breeding sites mostly consisting of rice paddies, whereas the S form and An. arabiensis were found to depend upon temporary, rain-filled breeding sites. These results support hypotheses about larval habitat segregation and confirm the suggestion that the forms have different larval habitat requirements. Segregation appears to be clearly linked to anthropogenic permanent habitats and the community structure they support.
21501886	Oryza meyeriana is a wild species of rice with high resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), but the resistance mechanism is poorly understood. Protein gel blot analysis and immuno-gold electron microscopy showed that Xoo infection induced an association of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) activase (RCA) with the thylakoid membrane in O. meyeriana, which led to considerable decline in the initial activity and the activation state of Rubisco. In susceptible cultivated rice, RCA remained in the chloroplast stroma. RCA may play a role in resistance to Xoo in O. meyeriana that differs from its well-known role in activating Rubisco, perhaps by protecting the thylakoid membrane against damage from Xoo.
21502185	Plant phosphate transporters (PTs) are active in the uptake of inorganic phosphate (Pi) from the soil and its translocation within the plant. Here, we report on the biological properties and physiological roles of OsPht1;8 (OsPT8), one of the PTs belonging to the Pht1 family in rice (Oryza sativa). Expression of a β-glucuronidase and green fluorescent protein reporter gene driven by the OsPT8 promoter showed that OsPT8 is expressed in various tissue organs from roots to seeds independent of Pi supply. OsPT8 was able to complement a yeast Pi-uptake mutant and increase Pi accumulation of Xenopus laevis oocytes when supplied with micromolar (33)Pi concentrations at their external solution, indicating that it has a high affinity for Pi transport. Overexpression of OsPT8 resulted in excessive Pi in both roots and shoots and Pi toxic symptoms under the high-Pi supply condition. In contrast, knockdown of OsPT8 by RNA interference decreased Pi uptake and plant growth under both high- and low-Pi conditions. Moreover, OsPT8 suppression resulted in an increase of phosphorus content in the panicle axis and in a decrease of phosphorus content in unfilled grain hulls, accompanied by lower seed-setting rate. Altogether, our data suggest that OsPT8 is involved in Pi homeostasis in rice and is critical for plant growth and development.
21502187	Rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the most aluminum (Al)-tolerant species among small-grain cereals. Recent identification of a transcription factor AL RESISTANCE TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR1 (ART1) revealed that this high Al tolerance in rice is achieved by multiple genes involved in detoxification of Al at different cellular levels. ART1 is a C2H2-type zinc-finger transcription factor and regulates the expression of 31 genes in the downstream. In this study, we attempted to identify a cis-acting element of ART1. We used the promoter region of SENSITIVE TO AL RHIZOTOXICITY1, an Al tolerance gene in the downstream of ART1. With the help of gel-shift assay, we were able to identify the cis-acting element as GGN(T/g/a/C)V(C/A/g)S(C/G). This element was found in the promoter region of 29 genes among 31 ART1-regulated genes. To confirm this cis-acting element in vivo, we transiently introduced this element one or five times tandemly repeated sequence with 35S minimal promoter and green fluorescent protein reporter together with or without ART1 gene in the tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) mesophyll protoplasts. The results showed that the expression of green fluorescent protein reporter responded to ART1 expression. Furthermore, the expression increased with repetition of the cis-acting element. Our results indicate that the five nucleotides identified are the target DNA-binding sequence of ART1.
21502188	Drought stress at the reproductive stage causes pollen sterility and grain loss in wheat (Triticum aestivum). Drought stress induces abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis genes in anthers and ABA accumulation in spikes of drought-sensitive wheat varieties. In contrast, drought-tolerant wheat accumulates lower ABA levels, which correlates with lower ABA biosynthesis and higher ABA catabolic gene expression (ABA 8'-hydroxylase). Wheat TaABA8'OH1 deletion lines accumulate higher spike ABA levels and are more drought sensitive. ABA treatment of the spike mimics the effect of drought, causing high levels of sterility. ABA treatment represses the anther cell wall invertase gene TaIVR1, and drought-tolerant lines appeared to be more sensitive to the effect of ABA. Drought-induced sterility shows similarity to cold-induced sterility in rice (Oryza sativa). In cold-stressed rice, the rate of ABA accumulation was similar in cold-sensitive and cold-tolerant lines during the first 8 h of cold treatment, but in the tolerant line, ABA catabolism reduced ABA levels between 8 and 16 h of cold treatment. The ABA biosynthesis gene encoding 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase in anthers is mainly expressed in parenchyma cells surrounding the vascular bundle of the anther. Transgenic rice lines expressing the wheat TaABA8'OH1 gene under the control of the OsG6B tapetum-specific promoter resulted in reduced anther ABA levels under cold conditions. The transgenic lines showed that anther sink strength (OsINV4) was maintained under cold conditions and that this correlated with improved cold stress tolerance. Our data indicate that ABA and ABA 8'-hydroxylase play an important role in controlling anther ABA homeostasis and reproductive stage abiotic stress tolerance in cereals.
21503549	The present study investigated leprosy in relation to the clinical, sociodemographic, nutritional and dietary profiles of patients diagnosed at primary healthcare units in the suburbs of Greater Vitória, State of Espírito Santo, Brazil, from January to December 2009. The study involved 152 male and female patients initiating polychemotherapy treatment. The collected data included sociodemographic, anthropometric, biochemical and dietary aspects derived from a questionnaire of eating frequency (QEF) that was validated and adapted for Brazilian culture. Body mass index (BMI) was calculated to evaluate patient nutritional status. The study showed that: 79 (52%) of the participants were women, average age was 40.4 years-old (± 16.9); 81 (53.3%) were employed; the mean number of years of schooling was 7.1 (± 4.5). Concerning the disease, 79 (52%) of the participants were multibacillary and 73 (48%) paucibacillary. The bacilloscopy index was negative in 125 (82.2%) patients. Excess weight was identified in 11.8% and 5.3% were underweight. Rice and beans were mentioned frequently, 87.3% and 88.7%, respectively. The study showed that simple actions, initiated during primary healthcare, can help to improve the treatment of patients with the leprosy.
21504212	Arsenic (As) contamination of paddy soils threatens rice cultivation and the health of populations relying on rice as a staple crop. In the present study, isotopic dilution techniques were used to determine the chemically labile (E value) and phytoavailable (L value) pools of As in a range of paddy soils from Bangladesh, India, and China and two arable soils from the UK varying in the degree and sources of As contamination. The E value accounted for 6.2-21.4% of the total As, suggesting that a large proportion of soil As is chemically nonlabile. L values measured with rice grown under anaerobic conditions were generally larger than those under aerobic conditions, indicating increased potentially phytoavailable pool of As in flooded soils. In an incubation study, As was mobilized into soil pore water mainly as arsenite under flooded conditions, with Bangladeshi soils contaminated by irrigation of groundwater showing a greater potential of As mobilization than other soils. Arsenic mobilization was best predicted by phosphate-extractable As in the soils.
21504892	Base composition varies among and within eukaryote genomes. Although mutational bias and selection have initially been invoked, more recently GC-biased gene conversion (gBGC) has been proposed to play a central role in shaping nucleotide landscapes, especially in yeast, mammals, and birds. gBGC is a kind of meiotic drive in favor of G and C alleles, associated with recombination. Previous studies have also suggested that gBGC could be at work in grass genomes. However, these studies were carried on third codon positions that can undergo selection on codon usage. As most preferred codons end in G or C in grasses, gBGC and selection can be confounded. Here we investigated further the forces that might drive GC content evolution in the rice genus using both coding and noncoding sequences. We found that recombination rates correlate positively with equilibrium GC content and that selfing species (Oryza sativa and O. glaberrima) have significantly lower equilibrium GC content compared with more outcrossing species. As recombination is less efficient in selfing species, these results suggest that recombination drives GC content. We also detected a positive relationship between expression levels and GC content in third codon positions, suggesting that selection favors codons ending with G or C bases. However, the correlation between GC content and recombination cannot be explained by selection on codon usage alone as it was also observed in noncoding positions. Finally, analyses of polymorphism data ruled out the hypothesis that genomic variation in GC content is due to mutational processes. Our results suggest that both gBGC and selection on codon usage affect GC content in the Oryza genus and likely in other grass species.
21505434	Plant growth and development are sustained by continuous cell division in the meristems, which is perturbed by various environmental stresses. For the maintenance of meristematic functions, it is essential that cell division be coordinated with cell differentiation. However, it is unknown how the proliferative activities of the meristems and the coordination between cell division and differentiation are maintained under stressful conditions. Here we show that a rice protein, RSS1, whose stability is controlled by cell cycle phases, contributes to the vigour of meristematic cells and viability under salinity conditions. These effects of RSS1 are exerted by regulating the G1-S transition, possibly through an interaction of RSS1 with protein phosphatase 1, and are mediated by the phytohormone, cytokinin. RSS1 is conserved widely in plant lineages, except eudicots, suggesting that RSS1-dependent mechanisms might have been adopted in specific lineages during the evolutionary radiation of angiosperms.
21505506	There has been growing interest in using dietary intervention to improve the lipid profile. This work aims at analyzing the effects and the comparison of the enrichment of a diet with beta-glucans or rice bran in mildly hypercholesterolemic men. The subjects initially consumed a 3-week Step 1 American Heart Association diet with rice bran-enriched foods. After this adaptation period, volunteers were randomly assigned to follow a crossover, controlled trial that consisted of two treatment with beta-glucan- or rice bran-enriched foods, each of 4 weeks, with a 3-week wash-out, like the adaptation period, between periods. Fasted blood samples were collected on days 0, 21, 49, 70 and 98 in both study arms for measuring low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (primary outcome), total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoprotein (apo) A-I, apo B and glucose levels. Twenty-four men (mean age: 50.3±5.3, mean body mass index: 24.9±1.9) completed the 14-week trial. Subjects in the 3-week adaptation period experienced significant reductions in the mean level of LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol/HDL cholesterol, apo A-I, apo A-I/apo B and glucose. During the intervention diet periods, a difference was found between treatment groups for the mean change in LDL (0.21 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.02-0.40), P=0.033) and total cholesterol (0.34 (95% CI: 0.20-0.47), P<0.001). Other parameters evaluated were not significantly affected by the diet consumed. The results of the present crossover clinical trial showed that beta-glucan-enriched foods are more effective in lowering serum LDL levels, compared with rice bran-enriched foods.
21505761	The rice grasshopper, Oxya hyla intricata, is a rice pest in Southeast Asia. In this study, population genetic diversity and structure of this Oxya species was examined using both DNA sequences and AFLP technology. The samples of 12 populations were collected from four Southeast Asian countries, among which 175 individuals were analysed using mitochondrial DNA cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) sequences, and 232 individuals were examined using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) to test whether the phylogeographical pattern and population genetics of this species are related to past geological events and/or climatic oscillations. No obvious trend of genetic diversity was found along a latitude/longitude gradient among different geographical groups. Phylogenetic analysis indicated three deep monophyletic clades that approximately correspond to three geographical regions separated by high mountains and a deep strait, and TCS analysis also revealed three disconnected networks, suggesting that spatial and temporal separations by vicariance, which were also supported by AMOVA as a source of the molecular variance presented among groups. Gene flow analysis showed that there had been frequent historical gene flow among local populations in different regions, but the networks exhibited no shared haplotype among populations. In conclusion, the past geological events and climatic fluctuations are the most important factor on the phylogeographical structure and genetic patterns of O. hyla intricata in Southeast Asia. Habitat, vegetation, and anthropogenic effect may also contribute to gene flow and introgression of this species. Moreover, temperature, abundant rainfall and a diversity of graminaceous species are beneficial for the migration of O. hyla intricata. High haplotype diversity, deep phylogenetic division, negative Fu's F (s) values and unimodal and multimodal distribution shapes all suggest a complicated demographic expansion pattern of these O. hyla intricata populations, which might have been caused by climatic oscillations during glacial periods in the Quaternary.
21505831	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for frost and drought tolerance, and winter survival in the field, were mapped in meadow fescue (Festuca pratensis Huds.) and compared with corresponding traits in Triticeae and rice to study co-location with putatively orthologous QTLs and known abiotic stress tolerance genes. The genomes of grass species are highly macrosyntenic; however, the Festuca/Lolium and Triticeae homoeologous chromosomes 4 and 5 show major structural differences that is especially interesting in comparative genomics of frost tolerance. The locations of two frost tolerance/winter survival QTLs on Festuca chromosome 5F correspond most likely to the Fr-A1 and Fr-A2 loci on wheat homoeologous group 5A chromosomes. A QTL for long-term drought tolerance on chromosome 3F (syntenic with rice 1) support evidence from introgression of Festuca genome segments onto homoeologous Lolium chromosomes (3L) that this genome region is an excellent source of tolerance towards drought stress. The coincident location of several stress tolerance QTL in Festuca with QTL and genes in Triticeae species, notably dehydrins, CBF transcription factors and vernalisation response genes indicate the action of structural or regulatory genes conserved across evolutionarily distant species.
21506271	The increasing interest in antioxidant properties of cereal and cereal-based products has prompted the development of a simple and reliable HPLC method for the simultaneous determination of important phytochemicals like tocopherols (T), tocotrienols (T3) and carotenoids. Separation was carried out on a Nucleosil 100 C(18) column, 5 μm (250 mm × 4.6 mm) thermostated at 25 °C, using a linear gradient elution system starting with methanol and ending with a mixture of methanol-isopropanol-acetonitrile. All separated compounds including the internal standard (α-tocopherol acetate) were eluted within 16 min and detected by dual detection: fluorescence for tocopherols and tocotrienols at 290 nm excitation and 320 nm emission and UV-vis photodiode array detection for lutein and β-carotene at 450 nm. Detection limits ranged from 0.2 μg/g (β-carotene) to 1.60 μg/g (α-tocopherol). The intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation were calculated by using cereals with different levels of lipophilic antioxidants. The extraction method involved sample saponification and clean-up by solid-phase extraction (SPE). The extraction recoveries obtained using OASIS HLB SPE cartridges and dichloromethane as eluent were in the range of 90.2-110.1%, with RSD lower than 10%. The method was successfully applied to cereals: durum wheat, bread wheat, rice, barley, oat, rye, corn and triticale.
21506933	Rice bran contains important bioactive phytochemicals. Among these phytochemicals, steryl ferulates including γ-oryzanol and its major components such as cycloartenyl ferulate (CAF), 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate (24-mCAF), β-sitosteryl ferulate (β-SF), and campesteryl ferulate have been intensively studied due to their crucial roles in pathological processes. On the basis of experimental studies published during the last decade in relation to antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-ulcerogenic, hypolipidemic, anti-neoplastic, anti-diabetic, and anti-allergic phenomena, these bioactive phytochemicals are reviewed in this paper. Particularly, in vivo and in vitro studies have clarified that rice bran phytosteryl ferulates mediate anti-inflammatory effects by down-regulating the inflammatory transcription factor, nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), which in turn reduces expression of inflammatory enzymes such as COX-2 and iNOS, and proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α. Moreover, rice bran phytosteryl ferulates up-regulate blood adiponectin levels via indirect activation of peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) through NF-κB inhibition. In this review, we discuss potential pharmacological aspects of rice bran phytosteryl ferulates in the clinical setting.
21507303	To study the effects of electric stimulation at the cerebellar fastigial nucleus on astrocytes in the hippocampus of neonatal rats with hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) and the possible mechanism. One hundred and eighty 7-day-old neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into three groups: sham-operation (control group) and HIBD with and without electric stimulation (n=60 each). The HIBD model of neonatal rats was prepared by the Rice-Vennucci method. Electric stimulation at the cerebellar fastigial nucleus was given 24 hrs after the operation in the electric stimulation group once daily and lasted for 30 minutes each time. The other two groups were not subjected to electric stimulation but captured to fix in corresponding periods. Rats were sacrificed 3, 7, 14 and 21 days after stimulations to observe the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression by immunohistochemisty and the ultrastructural changes of astrocytes in the hippocampus under an electron microscope. Immunohistochemical analysis showed the expression of GFAP in the HIBD groups with and without electric stimulation increased significantly compared with the control group on day 3, reached the peak on day 7, and the increased expression remained till to day 21. The GFAP expression in the electric stimulation group was significantly lower than that in the untreated HIBD group at all time points. Under the electron microscope, the astrocytes in the untreated HIBD group were swollen and the amount of organelles was reduced, while the swelling of astrocytes was alleviated and the organelles remained in integrity in the electric stimulation group. The electric stimulation at the cerebellar fastigial nucleus can inhibit the excessive proliferation of astrocytes and relieve the structural damage of astrocytes in neonatal rats following HIBD.
21507320	An outbreak of food poisoning (emetic syndrome) occurred in three kindergartens (A, B and C) in Berlin, Germany, on 3 December 2007 after an excursion during which food was served. We conducted a retrospective cohort study among the kindergarten children and personnel who participated in the trip. The overall attack rate among the 155 participants was 30%. It was 31% among the 137 children (aged two to six years) and 17% among adults (n=18). The consumption of rice pudding was significantly associated with disease. Among those who ate rice pudding, the attack rate was 36%, compared with 0% for non-eaters (relative risk: infinite, p<0.001, aetiological fraction: 100%), but differed significantly between kindergartens A (43%), B (61%) and C (3%), probably because groups were served from different pots. Bacillus cereus sensu stricto was identified from one vomit sample. The clinical and epidemiological characteristics suggest that B. cereus emetic toxin (cereulide) was the causative agent, although it could not be proven in the single vomit isolate. Inadequate food handling most probably led to the outbreak. Single-portion ready-to-eat rice pudding was recommended for subsequent excursions and no further cases of food poisoning occurred.
21507453	This study was conducted to investigate the effect of external iron status and arsenic species on chelant-enhanced iron bioavailability and arsenic uptake. Rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) were used as model plant, and were grown in artificially contaminated sandy soils irrigated with Murashige and Skoog (MS) culture solution. Arsenate uptake in roots and shoots of rice seedlings were affected significantly (p>0.05) while dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA) was not by the additional iron and chelating ligand treatments. Regardless of iron concentrations in the soil solution, HIDS increased arsenic uptake for roots more than EDTA and EDDS. Chelating ligands and arsenic species also influenced iron uptake in rice roots. Irrespective of arsenic species, HIDS was found to be more effective in the increase of iron bioavailability and uptake in rice roots compared to other chelants. There was a significant positive correlation (r=0.78, p<0.05) between arsenate and iron concentrations in the roots of rice seedlings grown with or without additional iron indicating that arsenate inhibit iron uptake. In contrast, there was no correlation between iron and DMAA uptake in roots. Poor correlation between iron and arsenic in shoots indicated that iron uptake in shoots was neither affected by additional iron nor by arsenic species. Compared to the control, chelating ligands increased iron uptake in shoots of rice seedlings significantly (p<0.05). Regardless of additional iron and arsenic species, iron uptake in rice shoots did not differed among EDTA, EDDS, and HIDS treatments.
21507625	To be a viable alternative, a biofuel should provide a net energy gain and be capable of being produced in large quantities without reducing food supplies. Amounts of agricultural waste are produced and require treatment, with rice straw contributing the greatest source of such potential bio-fuel in Taiwan. Through life-cycle accounting, several energy indicators and four potential gasification technologies (PGT) were evaluated. The input energy steps for the energy life cycle assessment (ELCA) include collection, generator, torrefaction, crushing, briquetting, transportation, energy production, condensation, air pollution control and distribution of biofuels to the point of end use. Every PGT has a positive energy benefit. The input of energy required for the transportation and pre-treatment are major steps in the ELCA. On-site briquetting of refused-derived fuel (RDF) provides an alternative means of reducing transportation energy requirements. Bio-energy sources, such as waste rice straw, provide an ideal material for the bio-fuel plant.
21508069	Aluminum phosphide (ALP), as an effective pesticide and a substance used for protecting rice during storage, has become one of the commonest causes of poisoning and even suicide in developing countries including Iran and India. The authors aimed to study the efficacy of sweet almond oil as an antidote in ALP toxicity. The present experimental study was conducted over 35 rats. The animals were divided into four groups: one group as the control group and three other groups which received ALP alone or ALP and sweet almond oil with different time intervals. In addition to estimating the survival rate of the animals, plasma cholinesterase activity as a possible factor affected in ALP poisoning was evaluated. Treatment by intragastric irrigation of sweet almond oil resulted in significant reduction of mortality. Moreover, mean plasma cholinesterase levels were inhibited in groups receiving ALP. Oral sweet almond oil, if especially used immediately after poisoning with ALP, improves the survival rate.
21509472	Progression to homozygosity of heterozygous genotypes was studied in a cross of the rice subspecies Pei'ai64s and Nipponbare, using a set of 157 polymorphic microsatellite (SSR) markers. The segregation of heterozygous genotypes ranged from 49.13% in the F(2) population to 4.52% in the F(6) population (progression value 11.15%). The heterozygous genotypes were widely distributed in 180 F(2) plants, 330 F(6) lines, and 157 SSR markers. Homozygosity progression showed a wide distribution in plants and SSR markers but not in chromosomes. The segregation of heterozygous genotypes was not significant between populations but varied greatly in F(2) plants, F(6) lines, and SSR markers. The correlation between the progression to homozygosity and the heterozygosity of SSR markers was significant at the chromosome level. The segregation of heterozygous genotypes in plants, SSR markers, and chromosomes was not completely in accordance with Mendel's law. This information will help rice geneticists and breeders to understand heterozygous genotype segregation at the DNA level and to screen special markers for breeding.
21509605	Field and laboratory experiments were performed to evaluate toxicological responses of Cyprinus carpio exposed to the commercial herbicide clomazone (500 mg l(-1)). Fish were exposed to 0.5 mg l(-1) of the formulated herbicide for 7, 30, and 90 days. Fish were exposed to clomazone in field conditions (7, 30, or 90 days trapped in submersed cages together with rice crops) and in laboratory conditions where the fish were placed in 45-l tanks with tap water only for 7 days. Fish exposed for 7, 30, or 90 days showed no alterations in acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity under field conditions. Under laboratory conditions, decreased muscle AChE activity was observed only after 7 days of exposure. During the same evaluation period (7 days), oxidative stress parameters changed under both field and laboratory conditions; however, metabolic parameters were altered only under field conditions. Disorders in oxidative stress parameters and metabolism were evident in different tissues up to day 90 after treatment. These overall results show that AChE activity changed only under laboratory conditions. Oxidative stress, along with metabolic parameters, may be good indicators of herbicide contamination in C. carpio under rice-field conditions.
21510217	The planthopper Laodelphax striatellus (Fallén) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) is a serious insect pest of rice, Oryza sativa L., and has developed resistance to fipronil in Japan. Sequence analysis of L. striatellus RDL gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor subunit (LS-RDL) genes from a fipronil-resistant population and a fipronil-susceptible strain identified the A2'N mutation (index number for M2 membrane-spanning region), that was previously implicated in fipronil resistance in the planthopper Sogatella furcifera (Horváth) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae). Nineteen of 21 fipronil-resistant L. striatellus individuals were genotyped as heterozygous for the A2'N mutation, suggesting that this mutation is associated with fipronil resistance and that most fipronil-resistant L. striatellus express wild-type and A2'N mutant LS-RDL simultaneously. To confirm the role of the A2'N mutation of LS-RDL, Drosophila Mel-2 cells were transfected with wild-type and A2'N mutant LS-RDL genes, either individually or together. A membrane potential assay showed that fipronil had no inhibitory effect at 10 microM on cells transfected with the A2'N mutant LS-RDL gene with or without the wild-type LS-RDL gene. By contrast, the IC50 value of fipronil for wild-type LS-RDL homomers was 14 nM. These results suggest that the A2'N mutation of the RDL GABA receptor subunit confers fipronil resistance in L. striatellus as well as S. furcifera.
21510224	A web-based model was used to simulate the impact of aeration on population growth of the lesser grain borer, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.), and the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), in stored rough rice, Oryza sativa L., at Beaumont, TX. Simulations were run for each of 10 yr with 1 August as the start date; 31 December as the end date; beginning populations of 2.5 adults per metric ton (1000 kg); starting grain temperatures of 29.4, 32.2, and 35.0 degrees C; and aeration airflow rates of 0.27, 0.79, and 1.40 m3/min/metric ton of rice. In the absence of aeration, populations of both species increased exponentially, with maximum production of R. dominica and S. oryzae at starting grain temperatures of 35.0 and 32.2 degrees C, respectively. Final predicted populations of R. dominica on 31 December from grain starting temperatures of 29.4, 32.2, and 35.0 degrees C were 5465, 6848, and 11,855 per ton, respectively; final predicted populations of S. oryzae were 13,288, 21,252 and 4355, respectively. Aeration led to a reduction in grain temperature and a decrease in pest populations, regardless of starting grain temperature or aeration airflow rates. Predicted populations of R. dominica on 31 December ranged from 12 to 63 adults per ton at all grain starting temperatures and airflow rates; populations of S. oryzae on 31 December ranged from 108 to 193 adults per ton at all grain starting temperatures and airflow rates. The predicted population levels in aerated rice represented at least a 98% reduction compared with unaerated rice. Results show the utility of the web-based model and how the various model inputs can help define broader patterns of insect control in rice stored in the south central United States.
21510583	Cardiovascular diseases have emerged as major health burden worldwide in recent times. Low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) serves as the primary marker for cardiovascular diseases. Reports suggest that rice bran oil has antihyperlipidaemic properties. However, current evidence suggests that no single oil can provide the recommended dietary fat ratio. Hence the present study was undertaken in patients with hyperlipidaemia to study effects of substitution of the cooking oil with a blend of 80% rice bran oil and 20% safflower oil on LDL-C levels. The selected patients (n = 73) were randomly assigned either to the study oil group (blend under study) or control oil group (the oil which the patient was using before). The lipid profile was monitored monthly in these patients for 3 months during which they consumed the oil as per the randomisation. At each follow up, LDL-C levels showed a significant reduction from baseline in the study oil group and reduction was more than that observed in the control group. It was also observed that the percentage of the respondents was higher in the study oil group. At the end of the study period, 82% patients from this group had LDL levels less than 150 mg% as against 57% in the control group. Thus, the substitution of usual cooking oil with a blend of rice bran oil and safflower oil (8:2) was found to exert beneficial effects on the LDL-C levels shifting them to low-risk lipid category.
21510741	Alzheimer's disease, a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive memory loss and cognitive impairment, is the most common type of dementia in aging populations due to severe loss of cholinergic neurons in a specific area. Oxidative stress is known to be involved in the pathogenesis of this condition. Therefore, the cognition-enhancing and neuroprotective effects of rice berry (Oryza sativa), a purple-pigmented rice that is rich in antioxidant substances, was evaluated. Young adult male Wistar rats, weighing 180-220 g, were orally given rice berry once daily at doses of 180, 360, and 720 mg/kg of body weight for a period of 2 weeks before and 1 week after the induction of memory deficit and cholinergic lesions with AF64A, a specific cholinotoxin, via bilateral intracerebroventricular administration. One week following AF64A administration the rats were evaluated for spatial memory, neuron density, acetylcholinesterase activity, and hippocampal lipid peroxidation products. Our results showed that rice berry could significantly prevent memory impairment and hippocampal neurodegeneration in hippocampus. Moreover, it also decreased hippocampal acetylcholinesterase activity and lipid peroxidation product formation. These results suggest that rice berry has potential as an effective agent for neurodegeneration and memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease.
21510855	The copper (Cu) transporter (COPT/Ctr) gene family has an important role in the maintenance of Cu homeostasis in different species. The rice COPT-type gene family consists of seven members (COPT1 to COPT7). However, only two, COPT1 and COPT5, have been characterized for their functions in Cu transport. Here we report the molecular and functional characterization of the other five members of the rice COPT gene family (COPT2, COPT3, COPT4, COPT6, and COPT7). All members of the rice COPT family have the conserved features of known COPT/Ctr-type Cu transporter genes. Among the proteins encoded by rice COPTs, COPT2, COPT3, and COPT4 physically interacted with COPT6, respectively, except for the known interaction between COPT1 and COPT5. COPT2, COPT3, or COPT4 cooperating with COPT6 mediated a high-affinity Cu uptake in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant that lacked the functions of ScCtr1 and ScCtr3 for Cu uptake. COPT7 alone could mediate a high-affinity Cu uptake in the yeast mutant. None of the seven COPTs alone or in cooperation could complement the phenotypes of S. cerevisiae mutants that lacked the transporter genes either for iron uptake or for zinc uptake. However, these COPT genes, which showed different tissue-specific expression patterns and Cu level-regulated expression patterns, were also transcriptionally influenced by deficiency of iron, manganese, or zinc. These results suggest that COPT2, COPT3, and COPT4 may cooperate with COPT6, respectively, and COPT7 acts alone for Cu transport in different rice tissues. The endogenous concentrations of iron, manganese, or zinc may influence Cu homeostasis by influencing the expression of COPTs in rice.
21511810	Cuticular wax forms a hydrophobic barrier on aerial plant organs; it plays an important role in protecting a plant from damage caused by many forms of environmental stress. In the present study, we characterized a rice leaf wax-deficient mutant osgl1-1 derived from a spontaneous mutation, which exhibited a wax-deficient and highly hydrophilic leaf phenotype. We cloned the OsGL1-1 gene by the map-based cloning method and performed a complementation test to confirm the function of the candidate gene. Molecular studies revealed that OsGL1-1 was a member of the OsGL1 family, and contained regions that were homologous to some regions in sterol desaturases and short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases. Compared to the wild-type, the osgl1-1 mutant showed decreased cuticular wax deposition, thinner cuticular membrane, decreased chlorophyll leaching, increased rate of water loss, and enhanced sensitivity to drought. OsGL1-1 is expressed ubiquitously in rice. The transient expression of OsGL1-1-green fluorescent protein fusion protein indicated that OsGL1-1 is localized in the cytoplasm, plasma membrane, and nucleus.
21512221	Four putative β-amylase genes found in the Oryza sativa cDNA sequence database (KOME) were expressed in Escherichia coli. Recombinant proteins from two of these genes showed β-amylase activity. Similarly to β-amylases from other plants, the optimum pH of the recombinant rice β-amylases was about 5.5-6.0, but they exhibited inferior heat stability to soybean β-amylase.
21512296	Exposure to food service establishments is considered to encourage consumption and contribute to poorer diet quality, and hence adverse health profiles. However, empirical verification of these links remains rare, particularly in young adults and non-Western populations. The objective of this cross-sectional study was to test the hypothesis that neighborhood restaurant availability and frequency of eating out are associated with unfavorable patterns of dietary intake and thus possibly higher body mass index (BMI) and waist circumference in young Japanese women. The subjects were 989 female Japanese dietetic students 18 to 22 y of age. Dietary intake and frequency of eating out (i.e., consumption of commercially prepared meals) during the preceding month were assessed using a comprehensive, self-administered diet history questionnaire. Neighborhood restaurant availability was defined as the number of restaurants within a 0.5-mile (0.8-km) radius of residence (i.e., full-service restaurants, limited-service restaurants, and cafeterias). Increasing frequency of eating out was associated with higher intake of meat, confectionery and bread, and dietary fat, lower intake of fruit and vegetables, rice, and dietary fiber, and higher dietary energy density. However, neighborhood restaurant availability was not associated with either the frequency of eating out or any of the dietary variables examined. Further, frequency of eating out and neighborhood restaurant availability were not associated with BMI or waist circumference. In conclusion, although frequency of eating out was positively associated with unfavorable dietary intake patterns in a group of young Japanese women, neighborhood restaurant availability was not associated with frequency of eating out or dietary intake.
21512324	Light-harvesting antenna system possesses an inherent property of photoprotection. The single-helix proteins found in cyanobacteria play role in photoprotection and/or pigment metabolism. The photoprotective functions are also manifested by the two- and four-helix proteins. The photoprotection mechanism evolved earlier to the mechanism of light-harvesting of the antenna complex. Here, the light-harvesting complex genes of photosystems I and II from Arabidopsis are enlisted, and almost similar set of genes are identified in rice. Also, the three-helix early light-inducible proteins (ELIPs), two-helix stress-enhanced proteins (SEPs), and one-helix high light-inducible proteins [one-helix proteins (OHPs)] are identified in rice. Interestingly, two independent genomic loci encoding PsbS protein are also identified with implications on additional mode of non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) mechanism in rice. A few additional LHC-related genes are also identified in rice (LOC_Os09g12540, LOC_Os02g03330). This is the first report of identification of light-harvesting complex genes and light-inducible genes in rice.
21512732	Many plants require circadian clock and light information for the photoperiodic control of flowering. In Arabidopsis, a long-day plant (LDP), flowering is triggered by the circadian clock-controlled expression of CONSTANS (CO) and light stabilization of the CO protein to induce FT (FLOWERING LOCUS T). In rice, a short-day plant (SDP), the CO ortholog Heading date 1 (Hd1) regulates FT ortholog Hd3a, but regulation of Hd3a by Hd1 differs from that in Arabidopsis. Here, we report that phytochrome B (phyB)-mediated suppression of Hd3a is a primary cause of long-day suppression of flowering in rice, based on the three complementary discoveries. First, overexpression of Hd1 causes a delay in flowering under SD conditions and this effect requires phyB, suggesting that light modulates Hd1 control of Hd3a transcription. Second, a single extension of day length decreases Hd3a expression proportionately with the length of daylight. Third, Hd1 protein levels in Hd1-overexpressing plants are not altered in the presence of light. These results also suggest that phyB-mediated suppression of Hd3a expression is a component of the molecular mechanism for critical day length in rice.
21512773	Rapid and uniform seed germination under diverse environmental conditions is a desirable characteristic for most crop plants, such as rice, wheat, and maize. However, the genetic base of the variations in the rate of germination is not well understood. In this study, quantitative trait loci (QTL) for germination rate were mapped with a set of 143 chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSL) each contains a small genomic fragment from a japonica variety Nipponbare in the uniform genetic background of an indica variety Zhenshan97. Nine CSSL showed significantly lower germination rate than that in Zhenshan97. Four germination-related QTL were identified located on chromosomes 2, 5, 6 and 10, at which all japonica alleles decreased germination rate. By using the CSSL-derived F2 population, a major QTL (qGR2) on chromosome 2 was confirmed, and delimited to a 10.4 kb interval containing three putative candidate genes, of which OsMADS29 was only expressed preferentially in the seed. These results would facilitate cloning of the major gene that affects germination rate, and provide an insight into the genetic basis of germination.
2151302	A toxicogenic strain of Fusarium graminearum which produces DON and ZEA was cultivated on natural solid substrates (wheat, polished rice and hulled rice) under different environmental conditions. The production of both toxins and mycelium growth (in terms of glucosamine) were evaluated to establish the relation between the production of DON and ZEA and the different mycelium growth on the substrates mentioned above. Polished rice was the substrate on which most production of both toxins was obtained. Comparing the three substrates studied, the highest quantities of DON were obtained at a temperature of 27 degrees C during incubation period, being indifferent to the presence of light except in the case of hulled rice. Whereas for ZEA the best conditions in wheat and polished rice were medium temperatures (17 degrees-21 degrees C respectively) and darkness. While in hulled rice the ideal conditions for the production of both toxins were temperature of 27 degrees C and the presence of light. Concerning the mycelium growth, this was very scarce when cultivated in hulled rice, increasing in polished rice and being largest in wheat. The increase or reduction of the mycelium growth in the different substrates was not proportional to the increase or decrease of the production of both toxins. Therefore, production of DON and ZEA could be subjected to the nature of the substrate and environmental conditions, more than the rate of development of Fusarium graminearum in cereal grains.
21513154	A DNA segment with DNA methylation site was detected from rice callus with or without 5-azaC treatment by MSAP. This segment was located on the first exon of gene OsMAPK2 and its 5' non-coding region. Gene OsMAPK2 had a CpG island in the 5' region and was homologous to AtMAPK12. Real-time quantitative PCR and Hpa II-McrBC PCR were conducted to detect the gene expression and DNA methylation of OsMAPK2 in the process of callus formation. The results showed that the DNA methylation was able to control the expression of OsMAPK2. The additon of 2.0 mg/L 2,4-D could induce DNA demethylation in the 5' region and activate the expression of OsMAPK2 gene. However, after long-time stimulation (100 h), the gene was methylated again, and the gene expression level was decreased. The trends of DNA methylation and gene expression stimulated by low concentrations of 2,4-D (0.5 and 1.0 mg/L) were similar to 2.0 mg/L 2,4-D, but the expression levels in each time point were low. On the other hand, high concentration of 2,4-D (5.0 mg/L) completed the processes of induction and suppression of the gene in a shorter time.
21513155	Phytosulfokine (PSK) is a newly discovered plant hormone, which can promote cell division and induce cell differentiation. It has 7 members in rice genome. So far, how the OsPSK functions and regulates in vivo is remaining unclear. In this study, we first did structural comparison and phylogenetic analysis of the 7-OsPSK-gene family via bioinformatics. Based on the phylogenetic analysis of the PSK genes in rice and Arabidopsis, we draw the conclusion that the formation of two paralogous PSK genes from the ancestral one was earlier than the monocotyledon-dicotyledon divergence; in addition, OsPSK1 and the rest OsPSK2-OsPSK7 stemmed from two different ancestors. Interrogating expression profiles of each OsPSK family member in different tissues showed different genes with different expression patterns. By means of the method of particle bombardment, we developed an OsPSK3 transgenic line, and further put much effort on studying rice growth under OsPSK3 overexpression background. It showed that the OsPSK3 overexpression line, OsPSK3ox increased OsPSK3 expression about 40% over the wild type, and presented obvious growth vigor with more fibrous roots and more root hairs at seedling stage. Plant height of OsPSK3ox-1 was higher from seedling to the full ripe stage. Notably in chlorophyll content of leaves, OsPSK3ox plants increased 2.3 times over that of the wild type.
21513197	Salinity is an important factor influencing growth and survival of aquatic organisms such as Artemia, a valuable aquaculture species. This study evaluated the effects of salinity on A. franciscana populations from different water bodies in Mexico's Pacific Coast. With this purpose, five autochthonous bisexual Artemia populations were tested to assess their survival and growth values against salinities of 40, 60, 80, 100 and 120 g/l, under laboratory conditions (25 +/- 2 degrees C; pH 8-10; constant light and aeration). The organisms were fed with 100 mL of rice bran and 2L of Tetraselmis suecica (500 000 cel/ml). The culture experiments were made in 200L plastic tanks, and survival and growth final values were obtained after 21 culture days. Survival and growth curves were determined by a regression analysis (R2). The significant differences between salinities were determined by ANOVA test (p < 0.05). The best survival and growth rates were found at salinities of 100-120 g/l. When the Mexican Artemia populations were cultivated at 40 g/l of salinity, 100% mortality was observed in the juvenile stage. This study determined that survival and growth values of A. franciscana populations increased with salinity. The five A. franciscana populations presented significant differences in their survival rate under various salinity regimes. The studied populations experienced high mortality at salinities under 60 g/l and over 200 g/l, and especially during the metanauplius stage. The present study confirms that growth rates in Mexican A. franciscana populations from Pacific Coast habitats are not inversely proportional to salinity. These A. franciscana populations should be cultured at 100-120 g/l of salinity to obtain better survival and growth rates. This data is useful to improve culture systems in aquaculture biomass production systems.
21513897	A total of 78 alleles and 29 loci were detected from nine microsatellite and three minisatellite markers, respectively across 26 blast and ufra disease resistant genotypes. For blast resistant genotypes, the Polymorphic Information Content (PIC) values ranged from 0.280 to 0.726 and RM21 was considered as the best marker. PIC values ranged from 0.5953 to 0.8296 for ufra resistant genotypes and RM23 was the best marker for characterization of ufra resistant genotypes. The genetic similarity analysis using UPGMA clustering generated nine clusters with coefficient of 0.66 for blast resistant genotypes while five genetic clusters with similarity coefficient of 0.42 for ufra resistant genotypes. In order to develop resistant varieties of two major diseases of rice, hybridisation should be made using the parents, BR29 and NJ70507, BR36 and NJ70507 for blast, while BR11 and Aokazi, BR3 and Aokazi, Rayda and BR3 and Rayda and BR11 for ufra.
21514673	Since the 1980s, rare earth elements have been commonly used in China because of their enriched fertilizers. To understand the potential benefits or damages of Ce(4+) on rice, the antioxidant responses (superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, catalase activities, and ascorbate and glutathione contents) of rice seedling to Ce(4+) under hydroponic cultures were investigated. The results showed that Ce(4+) induced H(2)O(2) and O(2)(-) production of rice seedling. The inhibition studies with diphenylene iodonium suggested that the key enzyme responsible for oxidative bursts was primarily NADPH oxidase. Ce(4+) (0.02 mM) increased the antioxidant capacity of reduced ascorbate and glutathione and the levels of superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, and catalase. However, antioxidant enzymes and antioxidant capacity of rice seedling were decreased by 0.2mM Ce(4+) treatment, indicating that higher content of Ce(4+) damaged the mechanism of defense responses and emerged the peroxidation of membrane lipids. These results will help us to understand the mechanism of Ce(4+) on rice and concern about its environmental impact in agriculture.
21515297	In this paper we report the synthesis of four ring-A difluorinated analogs of brassinosteroids. The bioactivity of these new compounds was evaluated using the rice lamina inclination test. The results show that one of these analogs elicits a bioactivity comparable to that of 28-homocastasterone, a highly active natural brassinosteroid. This finding suggests that both hydroxyls at C-2 and C-3 in active brassinosteroids are involved as hydrogen bond acceptors in their interactions with the cellular receptor.
21515697	In higher plants, timely degradation of tapetal cells, the innermost sporophytic cells of the anther wall layer, is a prerequisite for the development of viable pollen grains. However, relatively little is known about the mechanism underlying programmed tapetal cell development and degradation. Here, we report a key regulator in monocot rice (Oryza sativa), PERSISTANT TAPETAL CELL1 (PTC1), which controls programmed tapetal development and functional pollen formation. The evolutionary significance of PTC1 was revealed by partial genetic complementation of the homologous mutation MALE STERILITY1 (MS1) in the dicot Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). PTC1 encodes a PHD-finger (for plant homeodomain) protein, which is expressed specifically in tapetal cells and microspores during anther development in stages 8 and 9, when the wild-type tapetal cells initiate a typical apoptosis-like cell death. Even though ptc1 mutants show phenotypic similarity to ms1 in a lack of tapetal DNA fragmentation, delayed tapetal degeneration, as well as abnormal pollen wall formation and aborted microspore development, the ptc1 mutant displays a previously unreported phenotype of uncontrolled tapetal proliferation and subsequent commencement of necrosis-like tapetal death. Microarray analysis indicated that 2,417 tapetum- and microspore-expressed genes, which are principally associated with tapetal development, degeneration, and pollen wall formation, had changed expression in ptc1 anthers. Moreover, the regulatory role of PTC1 in anther development was revealed by comparison with MS1 and other rice anther developmental regulators. These findings suggest a diversified and conserved switch of PTC1/MS1 in regulating programmed male reproductive development in both dicots and monocots, which provides new insights in plant anther development.
21515727	The species Xanthomonas oryzae is comprised of two designated pathovars, both of which cause economically significant diseases of rice in Asia and Africa. Although X. oryzae is not considered endemic in the United States, an X. oryzae-like bacterium was isolated from U.S. rice and southern cutgrass in the late 1980s. The U.S. strains were weakly pathogenic and genetically distinct from characterized X. oryzae pathovars. In the current study, a draft genome sequence from two U.S. Xanthomonas strains revealed that the U.S. strains form a novel clade within the X. oryzae species, distinct from all strains known to cause significant yield loss. Comparative genome analysis revealed several putative gene clusters specific to the U.S. strains and supported previous reports that the U.S. strains lack transcriptional activator-like (TAL) effectors. In addition to phylogenetic and comparative analyses, the genome sequence was used for designing robust U.S. strain-specific primers, demonstrating the usefulness of a draft genome sequence in the rapid development of diagnostic tools.
2151651	We have cloned and sequenced the four members of a rice rab (responsive to abscisic acid) gene family that are tandemly arrayed in a locus approximately 30 kbp in length. Each of the genes contains a single, small intron. They are all transcriptionally active and encode proteins of Mr 15,500-16,800 with two highly conserved domains. Northern analysis with gene-specific probes showed slightly different patterns of expression for the four genes in rice plant tissues and in response to osmotic stress. Comparison of the promoter regions revealed a conserved GC-rich sequence (CGG/CCGCGCT) with some homology to the SP1 binding site (Briggs et al., 1986). Another conserved sequence (PuTACGTGGCPu), whose core is found in the promoter regions of ABA-responsive cotton genes, is reminiscent of the cAMP responsive element (Deutsch et al., 1988).
2151715	The ABA-induced MA12 cDNA from maize, which encodes a set of highly phosphorylated embryo proteins, was used to isolate the corresponding genomic clone. This gene, called RAB-17 (responsive to ABA), encodes a basic, glycine-rich protein (mol. wt. 17,164) containing a cluster of 8 serine residues, seven of them contiguous. It is a homologue of the rice RAB-21 gene (Mundy J, Chua NH, EMBO J 7; 2279-2286, 1988). Phosphoamino acid analysis of the isolated protein indicates that only the serine residues are phosphorylated and a putative casein-type kinase phosphorylatable sequence was identified in the protein. The pattern of expression and in vivo phosphorylation of the RAB-17 protein was studied during maize embryo germination and in calli of both meristematic or embryonic origin. ABA treatment induced the synthesis of RAB-17 mRNA and protein in calli, however, the RAB-17 proteins were found to be highly phosphorylated only in embryos.
2151719	We have characterized a new tomato cDNA, TAS14, inducible by salt stress and abscisic acid (ABA). Its nucleotide sequence predicts an open reading frame coding for a highly hydrophilic and glycine-rich (23.8%) protein of 130 amino acids. Southern blot analysis of tomato DNA suggests that there is one TAS14 structural gene per haploid genome. TAS14 mRNA accumulates in tomato seedlings upon treatment with NaCl, ABA or mannitol. It is also induced in roots, stems and leaves of hydroponically grown tomato plants treated with NaCl or ABA. TAS14 mRNA is not induced by other stress conditions such as cold and wounding. The sequence of the predicted TAS14 protein shows four structural domains similar to the rice RAB21, cotton LEA D11 and barley and maize dehydrin genes.
2151733	We have analyzed in transgenic tobacco the expression of a chimeric gene containing 5' sequences of the rice rab-16B gene fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. This construct, a translational fusion (-482 to +184) including 14 amino acids of the RAB-16B protein, is expressed only in zygotic and pollen-derived embryos. In zygotic embryos, GUS activity begins to accumulate 10 days after flowering (daf), and increases until seed maturation at 25 daf. Immunological measurements of endogenous abscisic acid (ABA) accumulation in these seeds showed a close parallel between hormone levels and GUS activity. However, GUS activity could not be reproducibly induced by treatment of immature embryos with ABA (10 microM). Neither GUS activity nor GUS mRNA could be detected in leaves of transgenic tobacco even after ABA treatment. In contrast, GUS activity could be induced to high levels in pollen-derived embryos by treatment with ABA. Our results show that 482 bp of 5' sequences of the rice rab-16B promoter can confer in transgenic tobacco developmentally regulated expression in embryos but not ABA-responsive expression in vegetative tissues.
21517874	• Biotransformation of arsenic includes oxidation, reduction, methylation, and conversion to more complex organic arsenicals. Members of the class of arsenite (As(III)) S-adenosylmethyltransferase enzymes catalyze As(III) methylation to a variety of mono-, di-, and trimethylated species, some of which are less toxic than As(III) itself. However, no methyltransferase gene has been identified in plants. • Here, an arsM gene from the soil bacterium Rhodopseudomonas palustris was expressed in Japonica rice (Oryza sativa) cv Nipponbare, and the transgenic rice produced methylated arsenic species, which were measured by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and high-performance liquid chromatography-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HPLC-ICP-MS). • Both monomethylarsenate (MAs(V)) and dimethylarsenate (DMAs(V)) were detected in the roots and shoots of transgenic rice. After 12 d exposure to As(III), the transgenic rice gave off 10-fold greater volatile arsenicals. • The present study demonstrates that expression of an arsM gene in rice induces arsenic methylation and volatilization, theoretically providing a potential stratagem for phytoremediation.
21518249	High chalkiness is a major problem in many rice-producing areas of the world, especially in hybrid rice (Oryza sativa L.) in China. We previously showed a major quantitative trait locus for the percentage of grains with white chalkiness (QTLqPGWC-8) in the interval G1149-R727 on chromosome 8 using a chromosome segment substitution line (CSSL). Here, we selected the line-CSSL50 harboring the QTLqPGWC-8 allele from the CSSLs derived from a cross between Asominori (as a recurrent parent) and IR24 (as a donor parent), which had higher percentage chalkiness, markedly different from that of Asominori. There were also significant differences in starch granules, appearance of amylose content (AAC) and milling qualities between Asominori and CSSL50, but not in grain size or thousand grain weight (TGW). The BC(4) F(2) and BC(4) F(3) populations from a cross between CSSL50 and Asominori were used for fine mapping of qPGWC-8. We narrowed down the location of this QTL to a 142 kb region between Indel markers 8G-7 and 8G-9. QTLqPGWC-8 accounted for 50.9% of the difference in PGWC between the parents. The markers tightly linked to qPGWC-8 should facilitate cloning of the gene underlying this QTL and will be of value for marker-assisted selection in breeding rice varieties with better grain quality.
21518803	Small RNAs (sRNAs), largely known as microRNAs (miRNAs) and short interfering RNAs (siRNAs), emerged as the critical components of genetic and epigenetic regulation in eukaryotic genomes. In animals, a sizable portion of miRNAs reside within the introns of protein-coding genes, designated as mirtron genes. Recently, high-throughput sequencing (HTS) revealed a huge amount of sRNAs that derived from introns in plants, such as the monocot rice (Oryza sativa). However, the biogenesis and the biological functions of this kind of sRNAs remain elusive. Here, we performed a genome-scale survey of intron-derived sRNAs in rice based on HTS data. Several introns were found to have great potential to form internal hairpin structures, and the short hairpins could generate miRNAs while the larger ones could produce siRNAs. Furthermore, 22 introns, termed "sirtrons," were identified from the rice protein-coding genes. The single-stranded sirtrons produced a diverse set of siRNAs from long hairpin structures. These sirtron-derived siRNAs are dominantly 21 nt, 22 nt, and 24 nt in length, whose production relied on DCL4, DCL2, and DCL3, respectively. We also observed a strong tendency for the sirtron-derived siRNAs to be coexpressed with their host genes. Finally, the 24-nt siRNAs incorporated with Argonaute 4 (AGO4) could direct DNA methylation on their host genes. In this regard, homeostatic self-regulation between intron-derived siRNAs and their host genes was proposed.
21519742	The revaluation of the Andean cultivations, quinua (Chenopodium quinua Willd) and lupin (Lupinus albus L.), to be used in nutritional mixtures, with traditional cereals like corn (Zea mays L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.), originate mixtures without gluten which constitute a good alternative for the nutrition of children under 24 months that suffer from celiac disease, since they improve the quality of the protein, by essential amino acids compensation, and also impacts in the product's diversification strategy. In the present work, the percentage composition of each flour in the mixture was determined by means of Linear Programming by means of the Solver form from the Excel spreadsheet. Prolamines were determined in the quinua and lupin flours by the ELISA test and the HPLC technique was used in both products obtained called "sweet mix" and "dessert mix", to define the quantity of amino acids with the purpose of providing around the 15% of the proteins required in the day. The flour mixtures selected as optimum, sweet mix, suitable for the preparation of sweet pancakes, as well as for the dessert mix, that by addition of water or milk produce a semi solid dessert, were evaluated after three months of storage, being acceptable their microbiological, bromatological and sensorial requirements, corroborating the results with the good acceptance of the products, prepared from the formulated mixtures, by the children of two Day Care centers of the City of Antofagasta-Chile.
21519743	The nutritional formulations of high protein content, provided by a flour mixture from two Andean cultures, quinua (Chenopodium quinua Willd) and lupino (Lupinus albus L), with two traditional cereals, maize (Zea mays L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.), entailed to the preparation of a "sweet mixture" for the elaboration of "queques" and another "dessert mixture" flavoured with banana, that can be prepared with water or milk, constituted a good alternative as food supplement for the nutrition of children aged 6-24 months who suffer from celiac disease, since they contribute to the quality improvement of the protein, by essential amino acids compensation, they are of low cost and allow an increase in availability of products for gluten-intolerant children. Some physical, chemical, rheological, mechanical and fluidity properties, as well as the color of these mixtures for a period of conservation of 90 days were evaluated. At the end of the storage, the sweet mixture turned out to be of "little flow" and the dessert mixture changed from "little flow" to "easy flow". Viscosity for the dessert mixture, with its two types of dilutions, water and milk, presented a behavior of pseudoplastic fluid. It was possible to guess that the time of shelf life of the mixtures would be of 9 months before achieving the rancidity limit (10 mEq of oxigen/kg of fat, which would disqualify the product for consumption). The CIEL*a*b* color coordinates did not show significant differences keeping the colour in "a beige" tonality.
21520392	One promising area of paddy weed control is the potential for exploiting the weed-suppressing ability of rice. This study was conducted to develop commercially acceptable allelopathic rice cultivars using crosses between allelopathic rice variety PI312777 and commercial Chinese cultivars (N2S, N9S, Huahui354, Peiai64S and Tehuazhan35), and to assess their weed suppression and grain yield in paddy fields in relation to their parents. There was a positive dominance in the crosses Huahui354 × PI312777 and N2S × PI312777 but recessive or negative dominance in N9S × PI312777, Peiai64S × PI312777 and Tehuazhan35 × PI312777. Huahui354 × PI312777 and N2S × PI312777 showed stronger weed suppression than their parents and other crosses. Finally, an F8 line with an appearance close to Huahui354 and a magnitude of weed suppression close to PI312777 was obtained from Huahui354 × PI312777. This line, named Huagan-3, was released as a first commercially acceptable allelopathic rice cultivar in China. The grain yield and quality of Huagan-3 met the commercial standard of the local rice industry. Huagan-3 greatly suppressed paddy weeds, although suppression was influenced by year-to-year variation and plant density. There was no certain yield reduction in Huagan-3 even under a slight infestation of barnyard grass in paddy fields. The successful breeding of Huagan-3 with high yield and strong weed suppression may be incorporated into present rice production systems to minimise the amount of herbicide used.
21520451	Many animal studies have been performed on products with the Bacillus thuringiensis insecticidal toxin-encoding gene (Bt products), but less have focused on its effects on intestinal microflora owing to difficulties in culturing. This 90 day study was designed to assess unintended effects of genetically modified T2A-1 rice (GMR) on selected intestinal bacteria (Lactobacillus group, Bifidobacterium genus, Escherichia coli subgroup, Enterococcus genus and Clostridium perfringens) of rats by the real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method. During the whole experiment, no statistically significant differences in the numbers of specific bacteria and total bacteria were found between the GMR group and its parental group. At all stages of the experiment the two main probiotics (Lactobacillus group and Bifidobacterium genus) in faeces accounted for 11-23% of the total bacteria, whereas the conditional pathogens (E. coli subgroup, Enterococcus genus and C. perfringens) made up less than 1% of the total bacteria. B/E (log(10) copies of Bifidobacterium genome g(-1) faeces/log(10) copies of E. coli genome g(-1) faeces) ratios from 1.19 to 1.34 were obtained. Furthermore, significant correlations (P < 0.01) between the real-time PCR method and the plate count method were found, with r values ranging from 0.60 to 0.75. No adverse effects on the numbers of specific bacteria in rat faeces were observed as a result of GMR feeding. The real-time PCR method is recommended in further studies on the composition and dynamics of the intestinal bacteria community for better safety assessment of GM materials.
21520708	Nutrition studies have provided unambiguous evidence that a number of human health maladies including chronic coronary artery, hypertension, diabetes, osteoporosis, cancer and age- and lifestyle-related diseases are associated with the diet. Several favorable and a few deleterious natural dietary ingredients have been identified that predispose human populations to various genetic and epigenetic based disorders. Media dissemination of this information has greatly raised public awareness of the beneficial effects due to increased consumption of fruit, vegetables and whole grain cereals-foods rich in phytonutrients, protein and fiber. However, the presence of intrinsically low levels of the beneficial phytonutrients in the available genotypes of crop plants is not always at par with the recommended daily allowance (RDA) for different phytonutrients (nutraceuticals). Molecular engineering of crop plants has offered a number of tools to markedly enhance intracellular concentrations of some of the beneficial nutrients, levels that, in some cases, are closer to the RDA threshold. This review brings together literature on various strategies utilized for bioengineering both major and minor crops to increase the levels of desirable phytonutrients while also decreasing the concentrations of deleterious metabolites. Some of these include increases in: protein level in potato; lysine in corn and rice; methionine in alfalfa; carotenoids (beta-carotene, phytoene, lycopene, zeaxanthin and lutein) in rice, potato, canola, tomato; choline in tomato; folates in rice, corn, tomato and lettuce; vitamin C in corn and lettuce; polyphenolics such as flavonol, isoflavone, resveratrol, chlorogenic acid and other flavonoids in tomato; anthocyanin levels in tomato and potato; alpha-tocopherol in soybean, oil seed, lettuce and potato; iron and zinc in transgenic rice. Also, molecular engineering has succeeded in considerably reducing the levels of the offending protein glutelin in rice, offering proof of concept and a new beginning for the development of super-low glutelin cereals for celiac disease patients.
21520763	Fipronil, a phenyl-pyrazole insecticide, is often used in rice (Oryza sativa L.) production agriculture, with elevated runoff concentrations and loads having potential toxicological effects on downstream aquatic environments. This study evaluated two species of aquatic plants-broadleaf cattail (Typha latifolia L.) and powdery alligator-flag (Thalia dealbata Fraser ex Roscoe)-placed in series against a nonvegetated mesocosm in reducing concentrations and loads of fipronil, and associated metabolites. Vegetation type and hydrological condition (inundated vs. dry) were treatment effects used for comparison. The vegetated mesocosms significantly reduced higher loads and concentrations of fipronil, fipronil sulfone, and sulfide in both inundated and dry hydrological conditions over nonvegetated nesocosms. Under inundation conditions, vegetated mesocosms reduced >50% of influent fipronil concentrations and betweeen 60 and 70% of fipronil loads, which was significantly higher than the dry conditions (10-32% concentration and load). These results show that agricultural management strategies usingephemeral aquatic zones, such as drainage ditches, can be optimized to couple chemical applications with vegetation presence and hydrology to facilitate the reduction in chemical waste loads entering downstream aquatic ecosystems. Such reduction is critical for use with fipronil, where negative impacts have been demonstrated with several nontarget species.
2152109	Phytochrome negatively regulates the transcription of its own phyA genes. High levels of Pfr, the active, far-red-light absorbing form of phytochrome, repress phyA transcription; low Pfr levels result in derepression. We have utilized microprojectile-mediated gene transfer to identify regions of an oat phyA3 gene involved in this autoregulation. Chimeric constructs containing various deletion and sequence substitution mutants of the oat phyA3 gene fused to a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter (phyA3/CAT) have been introduced into etiolated rice seedlings by particle bombardment. Low Pfr concentrations induce high phyA3/CAT expression, whereas high Pfr represses activity to near basal levels. Removal of phyA3 sequences 3' to the transcription start site reduces expression about fivefold, suggesting that intron 1 of the phyA3 gene may be required for high activity. The degree of high-Pfr-imposed repression is unaffected by any of a series of deletions or sequence substitutions in the phyA3 promoter, thus providing no evidence of any Pfr-activated negative elements. In contrast, 5' and internal deletions identify a minimum of three major positive promoter elements, designated PE1 [-381 base pairs (bp) to -348 bp], PE2 (-635 bp to -489 bp), and PE3 (-110 bp to -76 bp) that are necessary for high-level expression in low-Pfr cells. The data indicate that PE1 and PE2 are functionally redundant, but that PE3 is required in conjunction with either PE1 or PE2 for activity. PE3 contains a sequence element that is highly conserved between monocot phyA promoters, indicative of a critical role in phyA expression.
2152131	Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) is encoded by a small family of genes in Arabidopsis. We cloned and partially characterized one of these genes, PAL1. The deduced amino acid sequence is highly similar to PAL from bean, parsley, and rice. The promoter contains sequence elements homologous to two putative regulatory elements conserved among several phenylpropanoid genes. The regulation of the PAL1 gene was examined by analysis of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity in transgenic Arabidopsis containing PAL1-GUS gene fusions. The PAL1 promoter was activated early in seedling development and in adult plants was strongly expressed in the vascular tissues of roots and leaves, but was not active in the root tip or the shoot apical meristem. In flowers, expression was observed in sepals, anthers, and carpels, but not in petals. Transcripts encoded by the endogenous PAL genes and GUS transcripts from the PAL1-GUS gene fusion were induced by wounding, HgCl2-stress, and light. Analysis of the regulatory properties of 5' deleted promoters showed that the proximal region of the promoter to -290 was sufficient to establish the full tissue-specific pattern of expression and that the proximal region to -540 was responsive to environmental stimuli. Negative and positive elements were located between -1816 and -823 and between -823 and -290, respectively.
21521631	Rice Os4BGlu12, a glycoside hydrolase family 1 (GH1) β-glucosidase, hydrolyzes β-(1,4)-linked oligosaccharides of 3-6 glucosyl residues and the β-(1,3)-linked disaccharide laminaribiose, as well as certain glycosides. The crystal structures of apo Os4BGlu12, and its complexes with 2,4-dinitrophenyl-2-deoxyl-2-fluoroglucoside (DNP2FG) and 2-deoxy-2-fluoroglucose (G2F) were solved at 2.50, 2.45 and 2.40Å resolution, respectively. The overall structure of rice Os4BGlu12 is typical of GH1 enzymes, but it contains an extra disulfide bridge in the loop B region. The glucose ring of the G2F in the covalent intermediate was found in a (4)C(1) chair conformation, while that of the noncovalently bound DNP2FG had a (1)S(3) skew boat, consistent with hydrolysis via a (4)H(3) half-chair transition state. The position of the catalytic nucleophile (Glu393) in the G2F structure was more similar to that of the Sinapsis alba myrosinase G2F complex than to that in covalent intermediates of other O-glucosidases, such as rice Os3BGlu6 and Os3BGlu7 β-glucosidases. This correlated with a significant thioglucosidase activity for Os4BGlu12, although with 200- to 1200-fold lower k(cat)/K(m) values for S-glucosides than the comparable O-glucosides, while hydrolysis of S-glucosides was undetectable for Os3BGlu6 and Os3BGlu7.
21521743	The rice prolamins consist of cysteine-rich 10 kDa (CysR10), 14 kDa (CysR14) and 16 kDa (CysR16) molecular species and a cysteine-poor 13 kDa (CysP13) polypeptide. These storage proteins form protein bodies (PBs) composed of single spherical intracisternal inclusions assembled within the lumen of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that CysR10 and CysP13 were asymmetrically distributed within the PBs, with the former concentrated at the electron-dense center core region and the latter distributed mainly to the electron-lucent peripheral region. These results together with temporal expression data showed that the formation of prolamin-containing PB-I in the wild-type endosperm was initiated by the accumulation of CysR10 to form the center core. In mutants deficient for cysteine-rich prolamins, the typical PB-I structures containing the electron-dense center core were not observed, and instead were replaced by irregularly shaped, electron-lucent, hypertrophied PBs. Similar, deformed PBs were observed in a CysR10 RNA interference plant line. These results suggest that CysR10, through its formation of the central core and its possible interaction with other cysteine-rich prolamins, is required for tight packaging of the proteins into a compact spherical structure.
21523438	The small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) is a ubiquitin-like post-translational modifier that alters the localization, activity, or stability of many proteins. In the sumoylation process, an activated SUMO is transferred from SUMO-activating enzyme E1 complex (SAE1/SAE2) to SUMO-conjugating enzyme E2 (Ubc9). Among the multiple domains in E1, a C-terminal ubiquitin fold domain (UFD) of SAE2 shows high affinity for Ubc9, implying that UFD will be functionally important. We report NMR chemical shift assignments of UFD in SAE2 from rice. Almost all the resonances of UFD were assigned uniquely, representing a single conformation of UFD in solution. This is a contrast to the previous report for the corresponding UFD of human SAE2 which shows two conformational states. The secondary structure prediction of UFD in rice SAE2 shows the similar overall structure to the crystal structures of UFD in other E1 proteins such as SAE2 of human and yeast, ubiquitin-activating enzyme of yeast, and NEDD8-activating enzyme E1 catalytic subunit of human. Concomitantly, differences in the length of helices, strands, and loops are observed, particularly in the binding region to E2, supposing the variation in the UFD-E2 binding mode which may play a critical role in determining E1-E2 specificity.
2152378	Four cookie formulas (A, B, C and D) were prepared by combining stabilized rice bran with flour of other locally produced cereals. A Hedonic Scale from 1 to 7 was used to test acceptability; and Proximate Composition, Protein Efficiency Ratio (PER), Chemical Score (C.S.) and NDpCal% were determined. Sensory evaluation of the products did not detect a significant preference (p = 0.05) for any of the tested cookies. The formula A (30% rice bran), with the highest average score in flavor (6.2) and the highest PER (0.9) was selected for a consumer test among children ages 4 to 7, resulting in an acceptability of 100%.
21525786	Small RNAs constitute a new and unanticipated layer of gene regulation present in the three domains of life. In plants, all organs are ultimately derived from a few pluripotent stem cells localized in specialized structures called apical meristems. The development of meristems involves a coordinated balance between undifferentiated growth and differentiation, a phenomenon requiring a tight regulation of gene expression. We used in vitro cultured embryogenic calli as a model to investigate the roles of meristem-associated small RNAs. Using high throughput sequencing, we sequenced 20 million short reads with size of 18-30 nt from rice undifferentiated and differentiated calli. We confirmed 50 known microRNA families, representing one third of annotated rice microRNAs. Using a specific computational pipeline for plant microRNA identification, we identified 24 novel microRNA families. Among them, 53 microRNA or microRNA* sequences appear to vary in expression between differentiated and undifferentiated calli, suggesting a role in meristem development. Our analysis also revealed a new class of plant small RNAs derived from 5' or 3' ends of mature tRNA analogous to the tRFs in human cancer cell. We independently verified the expression of these small RNAs from 5' end of mature tRNA using qRT-PCR.
21527207	The chitin elicitor-binding protein (CEBiP) from rice was the first plant lysin motif (LysM) protein for which the biological and biochemical function had been established. It belongs to a plant-specific family of extracellular LysM proteins (LYMs) for which we analyzed the phylogeny. LYMs are present in vascular plants only, where an early gene duplication event might have resulted in two types which were retained in present day genomes. LYMs consist of a signal peptide, three consecutive LysMs, separated by cysteine pairs, and a C-terminal region without any known signature, whose length allows the distinction between the two types, and which may be followed by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor motif. We analyzed a representative of each type, MtLYM1 and MtLYM2, from Medicago truncatula at the biochemical level and with respect to their expression patterns and observed some similarities but also marked differences. MtLYM1 and MtLYM2 proved to be very different with regard to abundance and apparent molecular mass on SDS-PAGE. Both undergo several post-translational modifications, including N-glycosylation and the addition of a GPI anchor, which would position the proteins at the outer face of the plasma membrane. Only MtLYM2, but not MtLYM1, showed specific binding to biotinylated N-acetylchitooctaose in a manner similar to CEBiP, which belongs to the same type. We postulate that LYM2-type proteins likely function in the perception of chitin-related molecules, whereas possible functions of LYM1-type proteins remain to be elucidated.
21527628	Harpin proteins are well known as eliciters that induce multiple responses in plants, such as systemic acquired resistance, hypersensitive response, enhancement of growth, resistance to the green peach aphid, and tolerance to drought. Overexpression of Harpin-encoding genes enhances plant resistance to diseases in tobacco, rice, rape, and cotton; however, it is not yet known whether the expression of Harpin-encoding genes in vivo improves plant tolerance to abiotic stresses. The results of this study showed that overexpression of a Harpin-encoding gene hrf1 in rice increased drought tolerance through abscisic acid (ABA) signalling. hrf1- overexpression induces an increase in ABA content and promotes stomatal closure in rice. The hrf1 transgenic rice lines exhibited a significant increase in water retention ability, levels of free proline and soluble sugars, tolerance to oxidative stress, reactive oxygen species-scavenging ability, and expression levels of four stress-related genes, OsLEA3-1, OsP5CS, Mn-SOD, and NM_001074345, under drought stress. The study confirmed that hrf1 conferred enhanced tolerance to drought stress on transgenic crops. These results suggest that Harpins may offer new opportunities for generating drought resistance in other crops.
21527630	An indica variety Takanari is known as one of the most productive rice varieties in Japan and consistently produces 20-30% heavier dry matter during ripening than Japanese commercial varieties in the field. The higher rate of photosynthesis of individual leaves during ripening has been recognized in Takanari. By using pot-grown plants under conditions of minimal mutual shading, it was confirmed that the higher rate of leaf photosynthesis is responsible for the higher dry matter production after heading in Takanari as compared with a japonica variety, Koshihikari. The rate of leaf photosynthesis and shoot dry weight became larger in Takanari after the panicle formation and heading stages, respectively, than in Koshihikari. Roots grew rapidly in the panicle formation stage until heading in Takanari compared with Koshihikari. The higher rate of leaf photosynthesis in Takanari resulted not only from the higher content of leaf nitrogen, which was caused by its elevated capacity for nitrogen accumulation, but also from higher stomatal conductance. When measured under light-saturated conditions, stomatal conductance was already decreased due to the reduction in leaf water potential in Koshihikari even under conditions of a relatively small difference in leaf-air vapour pressure difference. In contrast, the higher stomatal conductance was supported by the maintenance of higher leaf water potential through the higher hydraulic conductance in Takanari with the larger area of root surface. However, no increase in root hydraulic conductivity was expected in Takanari. The larger root surface area of Takanari might be a target trait in future rice breeding for increasing dry matter production.
21528404	Stress responsive transcriptional regulation is an adaptive strategy of plants that alleviates the adverse effects of environmental stresses. The ectopic overexpression of Dehydration-Responsive Element Binding transcription factors (DREBs) either in homologous or in heterologous plants improved stress tolerance indicating the DRE/DREB regulon is conserved across plants. We developed 30 transgenic T(0) rice plants overexpressing OsDREB2A which were devoid of any growth penalty or phenotypic abnormalities during stressed or non-stressed conditions. Integration of T-DNA in the rice genome and stress inducible overexpression of OsDREB2A had occurred in these transgenic lines. Functional analyses of T(1)-3 and T(1)-10 lines revealed significant tolerance to osmotic, salt and dehydration stresses during simulated stress conditions with enhanced growth performance as compared to wild type. OsDREB2A, thus, confers stress tolerance in homologous rice system that failed in the heterologous Arabidopsis system earlier.
21528496	Zinc (Zn) is an essential micronutrient for humans, but Zn deficiency has become serious as equally as iron (Fe) and vitamin A deficiencies nowadays. Selection and breeding of high Zn-density crops is a suitable, cost-effective, and sustainable way to improve human health. However, the mechanism of high Zn density in rice grain is not fully understood, especially how Zn transports from soil to grains. Hydroponics experiments were carried out to compare Zn uptake and distribution in two different Zn-density rice genotypes using stable isotope technique. At seedling stage, IR68144 showed higher (68)Zn uptake and transport rate to the shoot for the short-term, but no significant difference was observed in both genotypes for the long-term. Zn in xylem sap of IR68144 was consistently higher, and IR68144 exhibited higher Zn absorption ratio than IR64 at sufficient (2.0 µmol/L) or surplus (8.0 µmol/L) Zn supply level. IR64 and IR68144 showed similar patterns of (68)Zn accumulation in new leaves at seedling stage and in developing grains at ripening stage, whereas (68)Zn in new leaves and grains of IR68144 was consistently higher. These results suggested that a rapid root-to-shoot translocation and enhanced xylem loading capacity may be the crucial processes for high Zn density in rice grains.
21528586	In this study, the assimilation, partition and accumulation of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N), as well as the relationship between C and N accumulation of rice, were studied from typical paddy ecosystems under long-term fertilizer applications with equal N inputs in subtropical China. The results showed that chemical fertilizer plus low organic manure (LOM) could promote effectively the distribution of C in the rice plant. The N content in the stem-leaf and grain of rice under organic-inorganic fertilization was 8.9-10.2 g x kg(-1) and 11.9-14.8 g x kg(-1) respectively. It was much higher than under other treatments, with about 13% - 53% and 9% - 19% higher than under the chemical fertilization (NPK), separately and 12% - 77% and 23% - 32% higher than under the control treatment (CK), respectively. The C and N storages of rice were mainly accumulated in the aboveground part. Organic-inorganic fertilization treatment possessed higher storages of C (3467.8-4 323.9 kg x hm(-2)) and N (120.3-135.2 kg x hm(-2)) in the rice grain,which was about 13% - 23% of C and 26% - 45% of N higher than under NPK treatment. It indicated that rice grain was the main sink of C and N. The organic-inorganic fertilization was in favor of C accumulation and N absorption in the rice plant and it still possesses an obvious potential in C and N sequestration and absorption in subtropical paddy field.
21529361	Flax, Linum usitatissimum L., is an important crop whose seed oil and stem fiber have multiple industrial applications. Flax seeds are also well-known for their nutritional attributes, viz., omega-3 fatty acids in the oil and lignans and mucilage from the seed coat. In spite of the importance of this crop, there are few molecular resources that can be utilized toward improving seed traits. Here, we describe flax embryo and seed development and generation of comprehensive genomic resources for the flax seed. We describe a large-scale generation and analysis of expressed sequences in various tissues. Collectively, the 13 libraries we have used provide a broad representation of genes active in developing embryos (globular, heart, torpedo, cotyledon and mature stages) seed coats (globular and torpedo stages) and endosperm (pooled globular to torpedo stages) and genes expressed in flowers, etiolated seedlings, leaves, and stem tissue. A total of 261,272 expressed sequence tags (EST) (GenBank accessions LIBEST_026995 to LIBEST_027011) were generated. These EST libraries included transcription factor genes that are typically expressed at low levels, indicating that the depth is adequate for in silico expression analysis. Assembly of the ESTs resulted in 30,640 unigenes and 82% of these could be identified on the basis of homology to known and hypothetical genes from other plants. When compared with fully sequenced plant genomes, the flax unigenes resembled poplar and castor bean more than grape, sorghum, rice or Arabidopsis. Nearly one-fifth of these (5,152) had no homologs in sequences reported for any organism, suggesting that this category represents genes that are likely unique to flax. Digital analyses revealed gene expression dynamics for the biosynthesis of a number of important seed constituents during seed development. We have developed a foundational database of expressed sequences and collection of plasmid clones that comprise even low-expressed genes such as those encoding transcription factors. This has allowed us to delineate the spatio-temporal aspects of gene expression underlying the biosynthesis of a number of important seed constituents in flax. Flax belongs to a taxonomic group of diverse plants and the large sequence database will allow for evolutionary studies as well.
21530375	In this work, a new method based on single drop microextraction (SDME) preconcentration using tetrachloromethane (CCl(4)) as extraction solvent was proposed for the spectrophotometric determination of cadmium in rice and water samples. The influence factors relevant to SDME, such as type and volume of extractant, stirring rate and time, dithizone concentration, pH, drop volume and instrumental conditions were studied systematically. Under the optimal conditions, the limit of detection (LOD) was 0.5 ng L(-1), with sensitivity enhancement factor (EF) of 128. The different maximum absorption wavelength caused by the different extraction acidity compared with some conventional works and the enhancement effect of acetone (dilution solvent) for the spectrophotometric determination were the two key factors of the high EF and sensitivity. The proposed method was applied to the determination of rice and water samples with satisfactory analytical results. The proposed method was simple, rapid, cost-efficient and sensitive.
21530785	The analytical performance of a kit-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the determination of a neonicotinoid insecticide dinotefuran residue in rice samples is addressed. The sensitivity (I(50) value) was 5.4 ng/mL, with the limit of detection, 0.6 ng/mL and the dynamic range from 1.0 to 30 ng/mL. The ELISA showed substantially high specificity toward dinotefuran besides clothianidin (184%). For rice samples, dinotefuran was extracted with methanol and the extracts were directly determined with the ELISA because of no significant matrix interference. Good recoveries were observed and ranged from 92.5% to 113.2% with coefficients of variation below 10%. The results obtained with the ELISA correlated well with those by the HPLC method for rice samples (r>0.98). These findings strongly indicate that the evaluated and validated ELISA has a potential utility in a quick, simple, and reliable residue analysis, especially a screening method before shipment contributing to food safety.
21531552	Porous silica with a high specific surface area (SSA) was prepared from pyrolyzed rice husk (PRH) by adding H(3)PO(4) to sodium silicate solution (SSS) until the pH values of 5.7, 5.0, 4.1 and 3.2 were achieved. The preparation process involved producing SSS from PRH, forming silica-polyethylene glycol (PEG) composites using SSS, H(3)PO(4) and PEG, and calcinating the composites. The required preparation time was below 10h, and the SSA of the sample prepared at pH 3.2 reached 1018 m(2)/g. Decreasing pH significantly increased the amount of PEG incorporated into the silica-PEG composites, and hence more pores were generated in the lower pH sample when the PEG was destroyed by calcination at 500°C. The process developed in this study could lead to more efficient conversion of rice husk into high value-added porous materials that might be used for the adsorption of gas and heavy metal ions.
21531898	Discovery of rare mutations in populations requires methods, such as TILLING (for Targeting Induced Local Lesions in Genomes), for processing and analyzing many individuals in parallel. Previous TILLING protocols employed enzymatic or physical discrimination of heteroduplexed from homoduplexed target DNA. Using mutant populations of rice (Oryza sativa) and wheat (Triticum durum), we developed a method based on Illumina sequencing of target genes amplified from multidimensionally pooled templates representing 768 individuals per experiment. Parallel processing of sequencing libraries was aided by unique tracer sequences and barcodes allowing flexibility in the number and pooling arrangement of targeted genes, species, and pooling scheme. Sequencing reads were processed and aligned to the reference to identify possible single-nucleotide changes, which were then evaluated for frequency, sequencing quality, intersection pattern in pools, and statistical relevance to produce a Bayesian score with an associated confidence threshold. Discovery was robust both in rice and wheat using either bidimensional or tridimensional pooling schemes. The method compared favorably with other molecular and computational approaches, providing high sensitivity and specificity.
21531900	The cis-regulatory regions on DNA serve as binding sites for proteins such as transcription factors and RNA polymerase. The combinatorial interaction of these proteins plays a crucial role in transcription initiation, which is an important point of control in the regulation of gene expression. We present here an analysis of the performance of an in silico method for predicting cis-regulatory regions in the plant genomes of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) on the basis of free energy of DNA melting. For protein-coding genes, we achieve recall and precision of 96% and 42% for Arabidopsis and 97% and 31% for rice, respectively. For noncoding RNA genes, the program gives recall and precision of 94% and 75% for Arabidopsis and 95% and 90% for rice, respectively. Moreover, 96% of the false-positive predictions were located in noncoding regions of primary transcripts, out of which 20% were found in the first intron alone, indicating possible regulatory roles. The predictions for orthologous genes from the two genomes showed a good correlation with respect to prediction scores and promoter organization. Comparison of our results with an existing program for promoter prediction in plant genomes indicates that our method shows improved prediction capability.
21532190	The processing of biological raw materials is considered to have an important role in the therapeutic application in Traditional Chinese Medicine. The root of Rehmannia glutinosa has to be processed by nine cycles of rice wine immersing, steaming and drying before using in clinical applications. In order to understand the chemical changes resulting from the processing, a comprehensive analysis of Rehmanniae radix was made using (1)H-NMR and Fourier transform (FT)-mass spectrometry in combination with multivariate data analysis. After (1)H-NMR and principle component analysis, hydrolysis was found to be the major chemical process during the treatments. Catalpol, raffinose and stachyose levels gradually decreased during processing, whereas monosaccharides including galactose and glucose were found to be higher in processed roots. The metabolic profile changed gradually through the processing cycles although the differences became smaller after the fifth processing cycle. The positive and negative ion-mode mass spectra by high resolution FT-MS revealed several series of ion clusters with mass differences of 162.053 Da, indicating a difference of a hexose moiety. During the processing, the number and signal intensity of the smaller glycosides were increased. Therefore, these results indicate that the fresh Rehmanniae radix is rich in polysaccharides, which are hydrolyzed during the processing.
21532865	Rosacea is a common chronic cutaneous disorder that primarily occurs on the convex surfaces of the central face and is often characterized by exacerbations and remissions. A case of a 52-yr-old woman visited our clinic in February 2008 complaining typical features of rosacea including multiple pinhead to rice-sized erythematous papules. We applied various conventional treatments including topical benzoyl peroxide and metronidazole as well as oral metronidazole, isotretinoin, and doxycycline. The lesions were not controlled but were rather aggravated by complications from these treatments. Therefore, we prescribed oral azithromycin, which has anti-inflammatory effects and reduces reactive oxygen species. Ten weeks after the administration of oral azithromycin, 500 mg per day for 2 weeks, the lesions had mostly disappeared and no specific side effects related to the azithromycin were noted. Oral azithromycin dosing 500 mg/day for 2 weeks is effective for treatment of intractable rosacea.
21533176	Rice (Oryza sativa) is a staple food for more than half the world and a model for studies of monocotyledonous species, which include cereal crops and candidate bioenergy grasses. A major limitation of crop production is imposed by a suite of abiotic and biotic stresses resulting in 30%-60% yield losses globally each year. To elucidate stress response signaling networks, we constructed an interactome of 100 proteins by yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assays around key regulators of the rice biotic and abiotic stress responses. We validated the interactome using protein-protein interaction (PPI) assays, co-expression of transcripts, and phenotypic analyses. Using this interactome-guided prediction and phenotype validation, we identified ten novel regulators of stress tolerance, including two from protein classes not previously known to function in stress responses. Several lines of evidence support cross-talk between biotic and abiotic stress responses. The combination of focused interactome and systems analyses described here represents significant progress toward elucidating the molecular basis of traits of agronomic importance.
21533213	During plant-pathogen interactions, the plant may mount several types of defense responses to either block the pathogen completely or ameliorate the amount of disease. Such responses include release of reactive oxygen species (ROS) to attack the pathogen, as well as formation of cell wall appositions (CWAs) to physically block pathogen penetration. A successful pathogen will likely have its own ROS detoxification mechanisms to cope with this inhospitable environment. Here, we report one such candidate mechanism in the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, governed by a gene we refer to as MoHYR1. This gene (MGG_07460) encodes a glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) domain, and its homologue in yeast was reported to specifically detoxify phospholipid peroxides. To characterize this gene in M. oryzae, we generated a deletion mutantΔhyr1 which showed growth inhibition with increased amounts of hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂). Moreover, we observed that the fungal mutants had a decreased ability to tolerate ROS generated by a susceptible plant, including ROS found associated with CWAs. Ultimately, this resulted in significantly smaller lesion sizes on both barley and rice. In order to determine how this gene interacts with other (ROS) scavenging-related genes in M. oryzae, we compared expression levels of ten genes in mutant versus wild type with and without H₂O₂. Our results indicated that the HYR1 gene was important for allowing the fungus to tolerate H₂O₂ in vitro and in planta and that this ability was directly related to fungal virulence.
21533550	Systematic searches using the complete genome sequence of rice (Oryza sativa) identified OsSUS7, a new member of the rice sucrose synthase (OsSUS) gene family, which shows only nine single nucleotide substitutions in the OsSUS5 coding sequence. Comparative genomic analysis revealed that the synteny between OsSUS5 and OsSUS7 is conserved, and that significant numbers of transposable elements are scattered at both loci. In particular, a 17.6-kb genomic region containing transposable elements was identified in the 5' upstream sequence of the OsSUS7 gene. GFP fusion experiments indicated that OsSUS5 and OsSUS7 are largely associated with the plasma membrane and partly with the cytosol in maize mesophyll protoplasts. RT-PCR analysis and transient expression assays revealed that OsSUS5 and OsSUS7 exhibit similar expression patterns in rice tissues, with the highest expression evident in roots. These results suggest that two redundant genes, OsSUS5 and OsSUS7, evolved via duplication of a chromosome region and through the transposition of transposable elements.
21533665	The localization of salt-induced H(2)O(2) accumulation in the leaves of rice was examined using 3,3-diaminobenzidine and CeCl(3) staining at ultrastructure level. When the 3-week-old rice plants were affected by 100 mM NaCl for 14 days, the swelling of thylakoids and the destruction of thylakoid membranes were observed. H(2)O(2) accumulation was also observed in the chloroplast of the leaf treated with NaCl. The electron dense products of 3,3-diaminobenzidine and CeCl(3) were mainly observed especially around the swelling of thylakoids. H(2)O(2) accumulation and any ultrastructural changes were not observed in the chloroplasts under dark condition. Furthermore, treatment with ascorbic acid suppressed both H(2)O(2) accumulation and the changes in chloroplast ultrastructure. These results suggest that light-induced production of excess H(2)O(2) under salinity is responsible for the changes in chloroplast ultrastructure. H(2)O(2) accumulation was also observed in the mitochondria, peroxisomes, plasma membrane, and cell walls under light but not dark, suggesting that these organelles are also the source of H(2)O(2) and the production is light dependent under salinity.
21533696	RNA interference (RNAi) is a useful research tool for the specific deletion, or knockdown, of target genes that can be exploited both in cultured plant cells and in whole plants. In RNAi, hairpin RNA (hpRNA)-transduced lines are used to identify loss-of-function mutations in multi-copy genes with redundant functions in polyploid plant species. Plants transformed with hpRNA exhibit a range of phenotypes resulting from complete knockdown to weak suppression or tissue- and stage-specific knockdown. Functional genomics using proteomic analysis with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry provides valuable information about altered levels of expression of specific genes in biological samples. Here, we describe the proteomic analysis of Oryza sativa (Os) thioredoxin m (Ostrxm) knockdown using 2-DE and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS).
21533902	Rice stripe disease, with the pathogen Rice stripe virus (RSV), is one of the most widespread and severe virus diseases. Cultivating a resistant breed is an essential and efficient method in preventing rice stripe disease. Following RNA interference (RNAi) theory, we constructed three RNAi binary vectors based on coat protein (CP), special-disease protein (SP) and chimeric CP/SP gene sequence. Transgenic lines of rice cv. Yujing6 were generated through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. We inoculated T1 generation plants from each line derived from CP/SP, CP, and SP transgenic rice plants with two RSV isolates from Shandong Province and Jiangsu Province using viruliferous vector insects. In these resistance assays, chimeric CP/SP RNAi lines showed stronger resistance against two isolates than CP or SP single RNAi lines. Stable integration and expression of RNAi transgenes were confirmed by Southern and northern blot analysis of independent transgenic lines. In the resistant transgenic lines, lower levels of transgene transcripts and specific short interference RNAs were observed relative to the susceptible transgenic plant, which showed that virus resistance was increased by RNAi. Genetic analysis demonstrated that transgene and virus resistance was stably inherited in the T2 progeny plants.
21534595	Cyhalofop-butyl (CyB) is a widely used aryloxyphenoxy propanoate (AOPP) herbicide for control of grasses in rice fields. Five CyB-degrading strains were isolated from rice field soil and identified as Agromyces sp., Stenotrophomonas sp., Aquamicrobium sp., Microbacterium sp., and Pseudomonas azotoformans; the results revealed high biodiversity of CyB-degrading bacteria in rice soil. One strain, P. azotoformans QDZ-1, degraded 84.5% of 100 mg L(-1) CyB in 5 days of incubation in a flask and utilized CyB as carbon source for growth. Strain QDZ-1 could also degrade a wide range of other AOPP herbicides. An esterase gene, chbH, which hydrolyzes CyB to cyhalofop acid (CyA), was cloned from strain QDZ-1 and functionally expressed. A chbH-disrupted mutant dchbH was constructed by insertion mutation. Mutant dchbH could not degrade and utilize CyB, suggesting that chbH was the only esterase gene responsible for CyB degradation in strain QDZ-1. ChbH hydrolyzed all AOPP herbicides tested as well as permethrin. The catalytic efficiency of ChbH toward different AOPP herbicides followed the order quizalofop-P-ethyl ≈ fenoxaprop-P-ethyl > CyB ≈ fluazifop-P-butyl > diclofop-methyl ≈ haloxyfop-P-methyl; the results indicated that the chain length of the alcohol moiety strongly affected the biodegradability of the AOPP herbicides, whereas the substitutions in the aromatic ring had only a slight influence.
21534973	• The inbuilt mechanisms of plant survival have been exploited for improving tolerance to abiotic stresses. Stress-associated proteins (SAPs), containing A20/AN1 zinc-finger domains, confer abiotic stress tolerance in different plants, however, their interacting partners and downstream targets remain to be identified. • In this study, we have investigated the subcellular interactions of rice SAPs and their interacting partner using yeast two-hybrid and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) approaches. Their efficacy in improving abiotic stress tolerance was analysed in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Regulation of gene expression by genome-wide microarray in transgenics was used to identify downstream targets. • It was found that the A20 domain mediates the interaction of OsSAP1 with self, its close homolog OsSAP11 and a rice receptor-like cytoplasmic kinase, OsRLCK253. Such interactions between OsSAP1/11 and with OsRLCK253 occur at nuclear membrane, plasma membrane and in nucleus. Functionally, both OsSAP11 and OsRLCK253 could improve the water-deficit and salt stress tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis plants via a signaling pathway affecting the expression of several common endogenous genes. • Components of a novel stress-responsive pathway have been identified. Their stress-inducible expression provided the protection against yield loss in transgenic plants, indicating the agronomic relevance of OsSAP11 and OsRLCK253 in conferring abiotic stress tolerance.
21534978	How rice defends itself against pathogen infection is well documented, but little is known about how it defends itself against herbivore attack. We measured changes in the transcriptome and chemical profile of rice when the plant is infested by the striped stem borer (SSB) Chilo suppressalis. Infestation by SSBs resulted in changes in the expression levels of 4545 rice genes; this number accounts for about 8% of the genome and is made up of 18 functional groups with broad functions. The largest group comprised genes involved in metabolism, followed by cellular transport, transcription and cellular signaling. Infestation by SSBs modulated many genes responsible for the biosynthesis of plant hormones and plant signaling. Jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA) and ethylene were the major hormones that shaped the SSB-induced defence responses of rice. Many secondary signal transduction components, such as those involved in Ca²⁺ signaling and G-protein signaling, receptor and non-receptor protein kinases, and transcription factors were involved in the SSB-induced responses of rice. Photosynthesis and ATP synthesis from photophosphorylation were restricted by SSB feeding. In addition, SSB infestation induced the accumulation of defence compounds, including trypsin proteinase inhibitors (TrypPIs) and volatile organic compounds. These results demonstrate that SSB-induced defences required rice to reconfigure a wide variety of its metabolic, physiological and biochemical processes.
21535627	Shiokara is a fermented seafood composed of sliced squid mantle muscle ripened with fresh squid liver. Preliminary sensory evaluation by using the ranking test revealed that the hardness of squid muscle in shiokara was reduced within 7 d of ripening. During the process of ripening, muscle proteins were digested by proteinases present in squid liver. The degradation of paramyosin and myosin heavy chain was observed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The hardness of squid mantle muscle in shiokara was reduced with the degradation of paramyosin and myosin heavy chain. This degradation was mainly caused by E-64-sensitive cysteine proteinases. To control the hardness of shiokara, we used rice seed oryzacystatin, which suppresses proteolysis by papain-like cysteine proteinases. When oryzacystatin was added 4 d after the start of shiokara ripening, the muscle protein degradation stopped, without further muscle softening. These results show that oryzacystatin is useful to control the ripening of shiokara by regulating its hardness.
21535639	Rice bran, a byproduct of the rice milling process, contains most of the phytochemicals. This study aimed at determining the concentrations of lipophilic, solvent-extractable (free), and cell wall-bound (bound) phytochemicals and their antioxidant capacities from brans of white, light brown, brown, purple, and red colors, and broccoli and blueberry for comparison. The concentrations of lipophilic antioxidants of vitamin E (tocopherol and tocotrienols) and γ-oryzanols were 319.67 to 443.73 and 3861.93 to 5911.12 μg/g bran dry weight (DW), respectively, and were not associated with bran color. The total phenolic, total flavonoid, and antioxidant capacities of ORAC (oxygen radical absorbance capacity), DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) radical scavenging, and iron-chelating in the free fraction were correlated with the intensity of bran color, while variations of these in the bound fraction were less than those in the free fraction among brans. Compounds in the bound fraction had higher antioxidant capacity of ORAC than DPPH, relative to those in the free fraction. The bound fraction of light-color brans contributed as much to its total ORAC as the free fraction. Total proanthocyanidin concentration was the highest in red rice bran, while total anthocyanin was highest in purple brans. The predominant anthocyanin was cyanidin-3-glucoside. Red and purple brans had several fold higher total phenolics and flavonoids as well as ORAC and DPPH, from both free and bound fractions, than freeze-dried blueberry and broccoli. These results indicate that rice brans are natural sources of hydrophilic and lipophilic phytochemicals for use in quality control of various food systems as well as for nutraceutical and functional food application.
21535669	Rice bran oil (RBO) is used in foods, cosmetics, and pharmaceuticals due to its desirable health, flavor, and functional attributes. We investigated the effects of biopolymer emulsifier type and environmental stresses on the stability of RBO emulsions. Oil-in-water emulsions (5% RBO, 10 mM citrate buffer) stabilized by whey protein isolate (WPI), gum arabic (GA), or modified starch (MS) were prepared using high-pressure homogenization. The new MS used had a higher number of octenyl succinic anhydride (OSA) groups per starch molecule than conventional MS. The droplet diameters produced by WPI and MS were considerably smaller (d < 300 nm) than those produced by GA (d > 1000 nm). The influence of pH (3 to 8), ionic strength (0 to 500 mM NaCl), and thermal treatment (30 to 90 °C) on the physical stability of the emulsions was examined. Extensive droplet aggregation occurred in WPI-stabilized emulsions around their isoelectric point (4 < pH < 6), at high salt (> 200 mM, pH 7), and at high temperatures (>70 °C, pH 7, 150 mM NaCl), which was attributed to changes in electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions between droplets. There was little effect of pH, ionic strength, and temperature on emulsions stabilized by GA or MS, which was attributed to strong steric stabilization. In summary: WPI produced small droplets at low concentrations, but they had poor stability to environmental stress; GA produced large droplets and needed high concentrations, but they had good stability to stress; new MS produced small droplets at low concentrations, with good stability to stress. Practical Application: This study showed that stable rice bran oil-in-water emulsions can be formed using biopolymer emulsifiers. These emulsions could be used to incorporate RBO into a wide range of food products. We compared the relative performance of whey protein, GA, and a new MS at forming and stabilizing the emulsions. The new OSA MS was capable of forming small stable droplets at relatively low concentrations.
21535699	The effect of genetically modified rice (GMR) on bacterial communities in caecal content was analyzed in a 90-d feeding rat model. A total of 12 groups of rats, which included male and female, were fed with the basal diets containing 30%, 50%, 70% GMR (B(1), B(2), B(3)) or 30%, 50%, 70% non-GMR (D(1), D(2), D(3)). The structure of intestinal microflora was estimated by real-time quantitative PCR (RQ-PCR) based on genus-specific 16s rDNA primers. SYBR Green was used for accurate detection and quantification of 6 kinds of major bacteria shared by humans and rats. According to RQ-PCR, the genome copies of Lactobacillus group from the cecum of male rats fed with 70% non-GMR was higher than those fed with 70% GMR and the relative abundance of Lactobacillus group also higher for group D. This result was in contrast with the E. coli subgroup, which was more numerous in proportion of group B, except D(2) and B(2) for male rats. The Clostridium perfringens subgroup was numerically more abundant in group D than group B of the same level, also except D(2) and B(2) for male rats. These results suggested that GMR had a complex effect on caecal microflora that may be related to the health of the host.
21535706	The sensory characteristics and consumer acceptability of beef soup samples containing 9 types of glutathione Maillard reaction products (GMRPs) were investigated to examine the effects of the GMRPs produced under different reaction conditions on the flavor of the beef soup. The sensory characteristics of the beef stocks were examined using descriptive analysis. In consumer testing, 50 consumers evaluated the overall acceptability and flavor intensities of beef odor, salty taste, beef flavor, and seasoning flavor in the beef soup samples. It was found that the reaction conditions, including sugar type and pH, affected the sensory characteristics of the beef stock containing the GMRPs. The samples containing the GMRPs reacted at pH 7 were characterized with strong beef flavor, chestnut flavor, and cooked rice flavor. However, the GMRP reacted with xylose at pH 7 (XM7) was significantly stronger in beef-related sensory characteristics than the GMRPs reacted with glucose or fructose at pH 7 (GM7 and FM7). The samples containing the GMRPs reacted at pH 3 had strong acid-related attributes whereas the GMRPs reacted at pH 11 exhibited strong sulfur-related attributes and a bitter taste. Overall, the beef soup containing XM7, which was perceived as having a strong beef odor and flavor, was rated the highest consumer acceptability score. This suggests that XM7 has feasibility as a flavor enhancer. To elucidate its effectiveness further, it is required to apply XM7 in various food systems at varying levels and to compare its flavor enhancing effects with other flavor enhancers such as monosodium L-glutamate in future studies. Practical Application: This study characterized sensory attributes of glutathione Maillard reaction products (GMRPs) reacted under various conditions and evaluated their potential as a flavor enhancer by examining consumer acceptability of beef stock containing the GMRPs. This study showed that the GMRP reacted with xylose at pH 7 had strong 71 beef flavor and the highest consumer acceptability score. The results of this study will provide valuable information for understanding sensory aspect of flavors generated by Maillard reaction of GSH and sugars, since most studies on Maillard reaction focused on chemical reactions. Also, the outcome of this study will help flavor and food industries' efforts to develop a new flavor enhancer for use in a variety of processed food products.
21535754	Barley, oats, rice, sorghum, and wheat, each with two genotypes, were sequentially abraded by an electric seed scarifier. The pearling fines (PF) and pearled kernels (PK) at each cycle were analyzed for lipid (mostly nonpolar) content and fatty acid (FA) composition. The oil content in whole or dehulled grains ranged from 2.18% of a wheat variety to 6.38% of an oat line. Compared with barley and wheat, rice, oat, and sorghum had higher relative % of C18:1 (31.60 to 36.64 compared with 12.15 to 15.61) and lower % of C18:2 (35.69 to 45.44 compared with 50.79 to 61.50). The relationship between oil content in PF and the cumulative level of surface removal essentially describes the distribution pattern of oil content within a seed. Barley, rice, and sorghum had a similar distribution pattern, characterized by a rapid rate of decreasing for the first few outer layers and then by gradual decrease to a flat value toward the inner core. In contrast, distribution within oats was characterized by a gradual reduction in oil content across the seed. The distribution of oil within wheat fell between the former 2 types. For all 10 grains, from seed surface to inner core, C16:0 and C18:0 increased, C18:1 and C18:3 decreased, and C18:2 changed slightly, providing a new reason for improved oxidative stability for pearled kernels. The differences in the changing intensity of FA composition among grain species correspond to those in oil distribution within a seed, while varietal difference in distribution patterns of content and FA composition of lipids within a species was insignificant. This study was the first to document fatty acid distribution across a grain seed. Results provide 2 major reasons for improved oxidative stability of pearled grains: reduced oil content and shift of fatty acids toward more saturated and less unsaturated composition.
21535827	To better understand the physicochemical changes imparted by hydrocolloids on gluten-free dough, 2 hydroxypropyl methylcelluloses (HPMCs) and xanthan gum were added at 2%, 3%, and 5% to rice cassava dough without the addition of alternative proteins. The formulated doughs were analyzed using thermoanalytic and rheological techniques to determine the role of water and subsequent flow behavior upon hydrocolloid addition. The baked loaves were then measured for specific loaf volume and tensile strength to determine bread quality. Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) results revealed that hydrocolloid-added dough held water more tightly than the rice cassava control with an additional water distribution at 85 to 88 °C. Rheologically, the increase of elastic moduli in the low methoxy HPMC and xanthan-added dough became more pronounced with gum addition; however, both HPMC formulations had increased viscous moduli allowing the gas cells to expand without collapsing. In the bread, the final specific loaf volume increased with high methoxy HPMC (2% to 5%) and low methoxy HPMC (2%) but was depressed with increased addition of low methoxy HPMC (5%) and xanthan (3% and 5%). Crumb hardness was decreased in high methoxy HPMC loaves but was increased significantly in low methoxy HPMC (5%) and xanthan (5%) formulations. From the gums studied, it was concluded that high methoxy HPMC was the optimum hydrocolloid in the rice cassava gluten-free dough. Two types of hydrocolloids, xanthan gum and HPMC, were individually added to a gluten-free rice cassava formulation. Based on the thermoanalytic and rheological studies on dough, as well as the bread quality studies, high methoxy HPMC at 5% addition was determined to optimally improve the bread quality when only gum addition was considered. This study indicates the potential use of high methoxy HPMC as an additive in gluten-free bread formulations prior to considering alternative proteins.
21536870	Asian rice, Oryza sativa, is one of world's oldest and most important crop species. Rice is believed to have been domesticated ∼9,000 y ago, although debate on its origin remains contentious. A single-origin model suggests that two main subspecies of Asian rice, indica and japonica, were domesticated from the wild rice O. rufipogon. In contrast, the multiple independent domestication model proposes that these two major rice types were domesticated separately and in different parts of the species range of wild rice. This latter view has gained much support from the observation of strong genetic differentiation between indica and japonica as well as several phylogenetic studies of rice domestication. We reexamine the evolutionary history of domesticated rice by resequencing 630 gene fragments on chromosomes 8, 10, and 12 from a diverse set of wild and domesticated rice accessions. Using patterns of SNPs, we identify 20 putative selective sweeps on these chromosomes in cultivated rice. Demographic modeling based on these SNP data and a diffusion-based approach provide the strongest support for a single domestication origin of rice. Bayesian phylogenetic analyses implementing the multispecies coalescent and using previously published phylogenetic sequence datasets also point to a single origin of Asian domesticated rice. Finally, we date the origin of domestication at ∼8,200-13,500 y ago, depending on the molecular clock estimate that is used, which is consistent with known archaeological data that suggests rice was first cultivated at around this time in the Yangtze Valley of China.
21538101	The present study evaluates the pattern of stress inducibility of one natural promoter (from rice Rab16A) and two synthetically designed promoters, viz., 4X ABRE (abscisic acid-responsive element, having four tandem repeats of ABRE) and 2X ABRC (abscisic acid-responsive complex, having two tandem repeats of ABRE and two copies of coupling elements), in response to varying concentrations of NaCl and abscisic acid (ABA). Each promoter, independently linked to gusA (that encodes β glucuronidase, GUS), was introduced into rice (cv. Khitish) through particle bombardment. The T(2) progenies showed integration of gusA in their genome. The accumulation of gusA transcript, driven by each promoter in T(2) transgenics, increased with increasing salt/ABA concentration, with ABA being the better activator of each promoter. Induction in GUS expression, driven by different promoters, was noted on exogenous salt/ABA treatments in a concentration-dependent manner. The maximum induction was observed with 2X ABRC promoter. All the three promoters could drive stress-inducible GUS expression in both vegetative and floral organs. However, prominent GUS expression was noted in the whole seed (both embryo and aleurone layer of endosperm) only by 2X ABRC, whereas it was localized only in the embryo for the other two promoters. Thus, our observation characterizes three efficient salinity/ABA-inducible promoters that have the potentiality in crop biotechnology to drive transgene expression for stress tolerance, whenever abiotic stress is encountered.
21538492	To assess adequately the impact of methylmercury (MeHg) on sensitive wetland ecosystems, accurate measurements of MeHg in pore water are required. In the present study, the feasibility of three methods for porewater sampling was investigated with respect to MeHg in sediments and rice paddy fields. The performance of dialysis samplers (peepers), sediment core sectioning followed by porewater separation by centrifugation (core), and the thin film diffusive samplers (DGT) were evaluated. These methods were intercompared in field experiments at two sites in Guizhou province, SW China disparately impacted by mercury pollution. All the methods report that the concentrations of MeHg in the soils of the Gouxi (GX) rice paddy near Wanshan were much higher than that in the sediment of the Hongjiadu Reservoir (HR), which is located within the Wujiang River basin. The three methods also report different MeHg profiles at the same site. However, these methods exhibit different temporal and spatial resolution scales, due to the differing operations involved with the sampling methods, may also reflect different states of MeHg in pore water. This corresponds to MeHg derived from diffusive flux, equilibrium concentration, and bulk concentration in pore water detected by DGT, peeper, and sediment core, respectively. The advantages and limits of the three methods are also presented.
21538857	Enzymatically modified rice starch (ERS) synthesized with 4-α-glucanotransferase has a longer structure than rice starch, which could delay digestion, similar to dietary fiber. We investigated the effects of ERS on glucose and lipid metabolism with mice fed a high-fat diet containing ERS (HFD-ERS). Four weeks of ERS feeding showed hypoglycemic effects with a significant reduction in fasting glucose (46%), insulin (57%), and leptin (83%) levels; improved glucose tolerance (20% in AUC of oral glucose tolerance test); and increased adiponectin concentrations (+27%) compared to the HFD group. Notably, phosphorylation of AMP kinase (AMPK) was markedly induced in the HFD-ERS livers compared to HFD livers. Additionally, ERS significantly reduced total cholesterol concentrations with induction of fecal bile acid excretion (+21%, P<0.05) in the HFD-ERS group compared to the HFD group. The mRNA and protein expressions of hepatic LDL receptors were significantly induced. However, cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase (CYP7A1) expression was downregulated possibly due to induction of intestinal farnesoid X receptor (FXR; +2.4-fold, p<0.05) and fibroblast growth factor-15 (FGF-15; +2.2-fold, p<0.01). Our data suggest that ERS feeding may have hypoglycemic and hypocholesterolemic effects via a mechanism similar to that of dietary fiber.
21538972	Pretreatment of rice husk by alkaline peroxide assisted wet air oxidation (APAWAO) approach was investigated with the aim to enhance the enzymatic convertibility of cellulose in pretreated rice husk. Rice husk was presoaked overnight in 1% (w/v) H(2)O(2) solution (pH adjusted to 11.5 using NaOH) (equivalent to 16.67 g H(2)O(2) and 3.63 g NaOH per 100 g dry, untreated rice husk) at room temperature, followed by wet air oxidation (WAO). APAWAO pretreatment resulted in solubilization of 67 wt % of hemicellulose and 88 wt % of lignin initially present in raw rice husk. Some amount of oligomeric glucose (˜8.3 g/L) was also observed in the APAWAO liquid fraction. APAWAO pretreatment resulted in 13-fold increase in the amount of glucose that could be obtained from otherwise untreated rice husk. Up to 86 wt % of cellulose in the pretreated rice husk (solid fraction) could be converted into glucose within 24 hours, yielding over 21 g glucose per 100 g original rice husk. Scanning electron microscopy was performed to visualize changes in biomass structure following the APAWAO pretreatment. Enzymatic cellulose convertibility of the pretreated slurry at high dry matter loadings was also investigated.
21539216
21539616	Maternal diet during pregnancy might influence the development of childhood allergic disorders. This prospective study examined the relationship between maternal dietary patterns during pregnancy and the risk of wheeze and eczema in the offspring aged 16-24 months. Subjects were 763 mother-child pairs. Data on maternal intake during pregnancy were assessed with a diet history questionnaire. Dietary patterns were derived from factor analysis of 33 predefined food groups. Symptoms of wheeze and eczema were based on criteria of the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood. Adjustment was made for maternal age, gestation, residential municipality, family income, maternal and paternal education, maternal and paternal history of allergic disorders, changes in maternal diet in pregnancy, season at baseline, maternal smoking during pregnancy, baby's older siblings, sex, birth weight, age at the third survey, household smoking, and breastfeeding duration. Three dietary patterns were identified: 'healthy', characterized by high intake of green and yellow vegetables, seaweed, mushrooms, white vegetables, pulses, potatoes, fish, sea products, fruit, and shellfish; 'Western', characterized by high intake of vegetable oil, salt-containing seasonings, beef and pork, processed meat, eggs, chicken, and white vegetables; and 'Japanese', characterized by high intake of rice, miso soup, sea products, and fish. There was a tendency for an inverse exposure-response relationship between the maternal Western pattern during pregnancy and the risk of childhood wheeze by crude analysis. After adjustment for the confounding factors under study, the inverse relationship was strengthened: the adjusted OR between extreme quartiles was 0.59 (95% CI: 0.35-0.98, p for trend = 0.02). No such inverse association was observed for childhood eczema. Neither the maternal healthy pattern nor the Japanese pattern during pregnancy was related to childhood wheeze or eczema. The maternal Western pattern during pregnancy may be preventive against wheeze in the offspring.
21539752	Burkholderia rhizoxinica is an intracellular symbiont of the phytopathogenic zygomycete Rhizopus microsporus, the causative agent of rice seedling blight. The endosymbiont produces the antimitotic macrolide rhizoxin for its host. It is vertically transmitted within vegetative spores and is essential for spore formation of the fungus. To shed light on the evolution and genetic potential of this model organism, we analysed the whole genome of B. rhizoxinica HKI 0454 - a type strain of endofungal Burkholderia species. The genome consists of a structurally conserved chromosome and two plasmids. Compared to free-living Burkholderia species, the genome is smaller in size and harbors less transcriptional regulator genes. Instead, we observed accumulation of transposons over the genome. Prediction of primary metabolic pathways and transporters suggests that endosymbionts consume host metabolites like citrate, but might deliver some amino acids and cofactors to the host. The rhizoxin biosynthesis gene cluster shows evolutionary traces of horizontal gene transfer. Furthermore, we analysed gene clusters coding for nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPS). Notably, B. rhizoxinica lacks common genes which are dedicated to quorum sensing systems, but is equipped with a large number of virulence-related factors and putative type III effectors. B. rhizoxinica is the first endofungal bacterium, whose genome has been sequenced. Here, we present models of evolution, metabolism and tools for host-symbiont interaction of the endofungal bacterium deduced from whole genome analyses. Genome size and structure suggest that B. rhizoxinica is in an early phase of adaptation to the intracellular lifestyle (genome in transition). By analysis of tranporters and metabolic pathways we predict how metabolites might be exchanged between the symbiont and its host. Gene clusters for biosynthesis of secondary metabolites represent novel targets for genomic mining of cryptic natural products. In silico analyses of virulence-associated genes, secreted proteins and effectors might inspire future studies on molecular mechanisms underlying bacterial-fungal interaction.
21539902	It was proposed that if some mRNA characteristics resulted in a low efficiency of termination signal, an additional closely located stop codon (tandem stop codons) could be used to prevent the harmful readthrough. However, the role of tandem terminators in higher eukaryotes was not verified and remains hypothetical. In this work the sequence features of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa mRNAs were analyzed. It was found that plant mRNAs with UGA terminator were characterized by a higher frequency of nonsense codons in the first triplet position of 3'-UTR that could result from a weak natural selection for "reserve" stop signal. Interestingly, the presence of tandem stop codons positively correlated with a specific amino acid composition in the C-terminal position of the encoded proteins. In particular, C-terminal glycine positively correlated with significantly higher frequencies of reserve terminators at the beginning positions of 3'-UTR in UGA-containing mRNAs. This finding coincides with some earlier observations concerning the role of glycine and its codons in inefficient termination of translation and recoding (e.g., 2A oligopeptide).
21540434	Ears are the seed-bearing inflorescences of maize (Zea mays) plants and represent a crucial component of maize yield. The first step in the formation of ears is the initiation of axillary meristems in the axils of developing leaves. In the classic maize mutant barren stalk fastigiate1 (baf1), first discovered in the 1950s, ears either do not form or, if they do, are partially fused to the main stalk. We positionally cloned Baf1 and found that it encodes a transcriptional regulator containing an AT-hook DNA binding motif. Single coorthologs of Baf1 are found in syntenic regions of brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon), rice (Oryza sativa), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), suggesting that the gene is likely present in all cereal species. Protein-protein interaction assays suggest that BAF1 is capable of forming homodimers and heterodimers with other members of the AT-hook family. Another transcriptional regulator required for ear initiation is the basic helix-loop-helix protein BARREN STALK1 (BA1). Genetic and expression analyses suggest that Baf1 is required to reach a threshold level of Ba1 expression for the initiation of maize ears. We propose that Baf1 functions in the demarcation of a boundary region essential for the specification of a stem cell niche.
21543724	We identified a gene responsible for tolerance to boron (B) toxicity in rice (Oryza sativa), named BORON EXCESS TOLERANT1. Using recombinant inbred lines derived from the B-toxicity-sensitive indica-ecotype cultivar IR36 and the tolerant japonica-ecotype cultivar Nekken 1, the region responsible for tolerance to B toxicity was narrowed to 49 kb on chromosome 4. Eight genes are annotated in this region. The DNA sequence in this region was compared between the B-toxicity-sensitive japonica cultivar Wataribune and the B-toxicity-tolerant japonica cultivar Nipponbare by eco-TILLING analysis and revealed a one-base insertion mutation in the open reading frame sequence of the gene Os04g0477300. The gene encodes a NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC)-like transcription factor and the function of the transcript is abolished in B-toxicity-tolerant cultivars. Transgenic plants in which the expression of Os04g0477300 is abolished by RNA interference gain tolerance to B toxicity.
21543727	Site-directed mutagenesis via gene targeting (GT) based on homologous recombination is the ultimate mutation breeding technology because it enables useful information acquired from structural- and computational-based protein engineering to be applied directly to molecular breeding, including metabolic engineering, of crops. Here, we employed this rationale to introduce precise mutations in OASA2--an α-subunit of anthranilate synthase that is a key enzyme of tryptophan (Trp) biosynthesis in rice (Oryza sativa)--via GT, with subsequent selection of GT cells using a Trp analog. The expression level of OASA2 in plants homozygous and heterozygous for modified OASA2 was similar to that of nontransformants, suggesting that OASA2 transcription in GT plants was controlled in the same manner as endogenous OASA2, and that GT could lead to a lower risk of gene silencing than in conventional overexpression approaches. Moreover, we showed that enzymatic properties deduced from protein engineering or in vitro analysis could be reproduced in GT plants as evidenced by Trp accumulation levels. Interestingly, mature seeds of homozygous GT plants accumulated Trp levels 230-fold higher than in nontransformants without any apparent morphological or developmental changes. Thus, we have succeeded in producing a novel rice plant of great potential nutritional benefit for both man and livestock that could not have been selected using conventional mutagenesis approaches. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of directed crop improvement by combining precision mutagenesis via GT with a knowledge of protein engineering.
21543884	The studies performed in model plants Arabidopsis and rice have revealed a significantly simple repertoire of canonical G-protein components in plants, with the presence of only two possible heterotrimers versus hundreds of possible trimeric combinations in animal systems. Since a number of plant species are polyploid, we assessed if genome duplication events have resulted into multiplicity of G-protein components in such plants and whether the duplicated gene pairs have specific expression patterns or biochemical properties. Our analysis of soybean genome has identified four Gα, four Gβ and two Gγ proteins, predicting thirty-two possible heterotrimeric combinations. All ten G-protein genes are retained in soybean genome and ubiquitously expressed. The G-protein genes have interesting expression profiles during seed developments and germination. The four Gα proteins form two distinct groups based on their GTPase activity. Yeast-based interaction analyses predict that the proteins interact in most but not all of the possible combinations, and there is some degree of interaction specificity between duplicated gene pairs. This research, thus, identifies the most elaborate heterotrimeric G-protein network known to date in plants.
21543885	VLCFAs are the main components of cuticular wax, which covers and protects plants from physical and biological stresses. However, the effect of fatty acid composition or the physiological role of VLCFAs on plant development under normal growth conditions is not well understood. We analyzed loss-of-function mutants of ONION1 (ONI1) which encodes fatty acid elongase (β-ketoacyl CoA synthase) catalyzing an elongation reaction of a carbon chain of VLCFAs. We showed that oni1 shoot contained a reduced amount of VLCFAs, and differentiation and functionality of an outermost cell layer (L1) were highly perturbed in oni1 shoot. In spite of the L1-specific expression of ONI1, the effects of the oni1 mutation were not restricted to L1, but expanded to inner cells, so that the entire shoot development was impaired including failure of the maintenance of the SAM and ectopic expression of SAM-specific KNOX genes in leaf. Thus, ONI1 function is cell non-autonomous, and signaling from L1 to inner cells may support proper development of inner cells. Here we report that expression of auxin-related genes was affected in oni1 shoot, and we speculate the existence of improper auxin distribution due to a lack of normal L1 in oni1 shoot.
21543899	GRAS genes are a large family of streptophyte specific transcription factors that function in a diverse set of physiological and developmental processes. GRAS proteins of the HAIRY MERISTEM (HAM) sub-family are required for maintenance of shoot and root indeterminacy. The transcriptional targets of HAM proteins and the signaling inputs regulating HAM activity are completely unknown. Understanding the relationship of HAM proteins to other members of the GRAS family may inform hypotheses relating to cellular level HAM functions. I here report a phylogenetic analysis of GRAS proteins employing the complete set of known and probable GRAS proteins from the sequenced genomes of the flowering plants Arabidopsis and Rice, the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii, and the bryophyte Physcomitrella patens. HAM proteins are most closely related to DELLA proteins, key components of gibberellin perception. However, GRAS proteins diversified into a minimum of twelve discreet monophyletic lineages, including the HAM and DELLA subfamilies, prior to divergence of the moss and flowering plant lineages. Substantial diversification of GRAS proteins at so early a point in land plant evolution suggests that relative relatedness sequence homology among GRAS proteins sub-families may not substantially reflect shared protein function.
21544623	A simple protocol for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Australian rice using mature embryos is described. Transgenic plants of two commercial genotypes of Australian rice, Amaroo and Millin, were produced. Transgenic plants were obtained by applying selection pressure to callus and to the regenerated shoots. Exclusion of the selective agent (hygromycin) during plant regeneration was found to be critical for recovery of transgenic plants from these commercial varieties. Transgenic plants were produced after 3 months. The developed system was also used to study spatial and temporal expression of a rice pollen-specific gene, Ory s 1. Expression of pOry s 1::uidA in transgenic rice demonstrated GUS expression in mature pollen, hence indicating potential use of this promoter to direct pollen-specific gene expression. Further Ory s 1 5' deletion study indicated that the pollen-specificity element may reside within -405 bp to the start of the transcription, while the region upstream of -405 contained a cis-acting regulatory element(s) responsible for quantitative expression of this gene.
21545033	MDCK and Vero (B) cell cultures were propagated during 10 passages in the experimental nutrient media containing the soybean powder hydrolyzate prepared using trypsin and bromelain enzymes and the rice powder hydrolysate prepared with trypsin and in the control DMEM and SFM4 MegaVir media. The karyological, morphological, and proliferative characteristics of continuous cultures were examined and compared. The experimental media supplied with 3% fetal bovine serum (FBS) (Gibco, U.S.A.) showed high growth-enhancing properties and failed to affect their morphology. After propagated during 10 passages in the experimental media preserved a stable karyotype. MDCK cell cultures in the nutrient media based on rice and soybean powder hydrolyzates low (2%) in FBS caused no substantial changes in the proliferation indices and morphological and karyological characteristics of cell cultures.
21546455	Abscisic acid (ABA) regulates plant development and is crucial for plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. Studies have identified the key components of ABA signaling in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), some of which regulate ABA responses by the transcriptional regulation of downstream genes. Here, we report the functional identification of rice (Oryza sativa) ABI5-Like1 (ABL1), which is a basic region/leucine zipper motif transcription factor. ABL1 is expressed in various tissues and is induced by the hormones ABA and indole-3-acetic acid and stress conditions including salinity, drought, and osmotic pressure. The ABL1 deficiency mutant, abl1, shows suppressed ABA responses, and ABL1 expression in the Arabidopsis abi5 mutant rescued the ABA sensitivity. The ABL1 protein is localized to the nucleus and can directly bind ABA-responsive elements (ABREs; G-box) in vitro. A gene expression analysis by DNA chip hybridization confirms that a large proportion of down-regulated genes of abl1 are involved in stress responses, consistent with the transcriptional activating effects of ABL1. Further studies indicate that ABL1 regulates the plant stress responses by regulating a series of ABRE-containing WRKY family genes. In addition, the abl1 mutant is hypersensitive to exogenous indole-3-acetic acid, and some ABRE-containing genes related to auxin metabolism or signaling are altered under ABL1 deficiency, suggesting that ABL1 modulates ABA and auxin responses by directly regulating the ABRE-containing genes.
21546655	The speciation and distribution of Co in soils is poorly understood. This study was conducted using x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) techniques to examine the influence of soluble cobalt in the +2 oxidation state (Co[II]) aging, submergence-dried cycling, and the presence of in vivo rice roots on the speciation and distribution of added Co(II) in soils. In the aging and submerged-dried cycling studies, Co was found to be associated with Mn oxide fraction (23 to 100% of total Co) and Fe oxide fractions (0 to 77% of total Co) of the soils as either Co(II) species or a mixed Co(II), and Co in the +3 oxidation state (Co[III]) species. The surface speciation of Co in the Mn oxide fraction suggests an innersphere complex was present and the speciation of Co in the Fe oxide fraction was an innersphere surface complex. The in vivo root box experiments showed similar Co speciation in the Mn oxide fraction (13 to 76% of total Co) as the aging and submerged-dried cycling studies. However, the Fe oxide fraction of the soil was unimportant in Co retention. A significant amount (24 to 87% of total Co) of the Co in root box treatments was identified as a Co precipitate. The importance of this finding is that in the presence of rice roots, the Co is redistributed to a Co precipitate. This work confirmed earlier macroscopic work that Mn oxides are important in the sequestration of Co in soils and the influence of roots needs to be taken into account when addressing Co speciation. The information gained from this study will be used to improve models to predict the lability and hence the availability of Co in terrestrial environments.
21546791	Rice (Oryza sativa cv. Dongjin) plants responded to treatment with methanol by inducing the synthesis of secondary metabolites such as serotonin derivatives which include feruloylserotonin and 4-coumaroylserotonin. This response was not only a dose dependence on methanol showing a maximum effect with 1% methanol concentration, but also methanol specific. No other solvents such as ethanol, atetaldehyde, isopropanol, formaldehyde, and formic acid showed the induced synthesis of serotonin derivatives as methanol did. The methanol induced synthesis of serotonin derivatives was completely blocked by the addition of abscisic acid (ABA), and significantly inhibited by the additions of zeatin and indoleacetic acid (IAA). However, gibberellic acid (GA) had little effect on the action of methanol. Finally, the induced synthesis of serotonin derivatives upon methanol treatment was closely associated with the transient increase in the activity of key enzyme of serotonin N-hydroxycinnamoyl transferase (SHT) which catalyzes the condensation of serotonin and phenolic-CoA into serotonin derivatives.
21547461	WRKY proteins are a large super family of transcriptional regulators primarily involved in various plant physiological programs. In present study, the expression profile and putative function of the WRKY transcriptional factor, WRKY78, in rice were identified. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that OsWRKY78 transcript was most abundant in elongating stems though its expression was detected in all the tested organs. The expression profiles were further confirmed by using promoter-GUS analysis in transgenic rice. OsWRKY78::GFP fusion gene transient expression analysis demonstrated that OsWRKY78 targeted to the nuclei of onion epidermal cell. Furthermore, OsWRKY78 RNAi and overexpression transgenic rice lines were generated. Transgenic plants with OsWRKY78 overexpression exhibited a phenotype identical to the wild type, whereas inhibition of OsWRKY78 expression resulted in a semi-dwarf and small kernel phenotype due to reduced cell length in transgenic plants. In addition, a T-DNA insertion mutant line oswrky78 was identified and a phenotype similar to that of RNAi plants was also observed. Grain quality analysis data showed no significant differences, with the exception of minor changes in endosperm starch crystal structure in RNAi plants. Taken together, these results suggest that OsWRKY78 may acts as a stem elongation and seed development regulator in rice.
21547850	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer death in the United States. The majority of CRC arise in adenomatous polyps and 25-35% of colon adenoma risk could be avoidable by modifying diet and lifestyle habits. We assessed the association between diet and the risk of self-reported physician-diagnosed colorectal polyps among 2,818 subjects who had undergone colonoscopy. Subjects participated in 2 cohort studies: the AHS-1 in 1976 and the AHS-2 from 2002-2005. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to estimate the period risk of incident cases of polyps; 441 cases of colorectal polyps were identified. Multivariate analysis adjusted by age, sex, body mass index, and education showed a protective association with higher frequency of consumption of cooked green vegetables (OR 1 time/d vs. <5/wk = 0.76, 95% CI = 0.59-0.97) and dried fruit (OR 3+ times/wk vs. <1 time/wk = 0.76, 95%CI = 0.58-0.99). Consumption of legumes at least 3 times/wk reduced the risk by 33% after adjusting for meat intake. Consumption of brown rice at least 1 time/wk reduced the risk by 40%. These associations showed a dose-response effect. High frequency of consumption of cooked green vegetables, dried fruit, legumes, and brown rice was associated with a decreased risk of colorectal polyps.
21547921	Coffee grounds and tea leaf wastes exhibit strong affinity for metals such as Fe and Zn. The objective of this experiment was to evaluate the effect of top-dressing application of Fe- and Zn-enriched coffee grounds and tea leaf wastes at the panicle initiation stage on the mineral content of rice grains and the yield of paddy rice. The Fe and Zn contents of brown rice grains increased significantly on application of both coffee and tea waste materials. The concentration of Mn was increased by top-dressing application of coffee waste material only. For Cu, no significant (P < 0.05) differences were found between the control and ferrous sulfate/zinc sulfate treatment. The application of coffee and tea waste materials led to a significant (P < 0.05) increase in the number of grains per panicle, which was reflected in increases in the total number of grains per hill and in grain yield. The top-dressing application of these materials is an excellent method to recycle coffee grounds and tea wastes from coffee shops. Use of these novel materials would not only reduce the waste going to landfill but would also benefit the mineral nutrition of rice consumers at low cost by increasing Fe and Zn levels of rice grains as well as grain yield.
21548290	Taking cold-tolerant rice cultivar 996 and cold-sensitive rice cultivar 4628 as test materials, a growth chamber experiment was conducted to investigate their pollen characters and flag leaf physiological and biochemical characteristics under the effects of low temperature stress. The plants were respectively treated with low temperature [ 19 degrees C (06:00-8:00; 19:00-23:00)/21 degrees C (08:00-10:00; 16:00-19:00)/23 degrees C (10:00-16:00)/17 degrees C (23:00-06:00)] and optimal temperature [24 degrees C (06:00-8:00; 19:00-23:00)/26 degrees C (08:00-10:00; 16:00-19:00)/30 degrees C (10:00-16:00)/22 degrees C (23:00-06:00)] for seven days after heading. Low temperature stress decreased the anther dehiscence coefficient and pollen germination rate, as well as the sterile pollen rate of spikelets on middle and lower parts of panicles, with the anther dehiscence coefficient and pollen germination rate of cultivar 996 being significantly higher than those of cultivar 4628, indicating that cold-tolerant cultivar 996 had the capability to keep better pollination and pollen germination. Under low temperature stress, the flag leaf soluble protein and free proline contents and their increments of cultivar 996 were significantly higher than those of cultivar 4628, while the MDA content and relative conductivity and their increment were in adverse, indicating that cold-tolerant cultivar 996 had more quick and strong protective responses, and was able to keep stable membrane structure and function.
21548760	Choclo virus (CHOV) and Maporal virus (MAPV) are enzootic in Panama and western Venezuela, respectively. The results of previous studies suggested that the fulvous pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys fulvescens) is the principal host of both viruses. The results of an analysis of nucleotide sequence data in this study indicated that the rodent associated with CHOV is the Costa Rican pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys costaricensis) and that the rodent associated with MAPV is the delicate pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys delicatus). As such, MAPV is ecologically distinct from CHOV and should be considered a species separate from CHOV.
21548945	Due to its overarching role in genome function, sequence-dependent DNA curvature continues to attract great attention. The DNA double helix is not a rigid cylinder, but presents both curvature and flexibility in different regions, depending on the sequence. More in depth knowledge of the various orders of complexity of genomic DNA structure has allowed the design of sophisticated bioinformatics tools for its analysis and manipulation, which, in turn, have yielded a better understanding of the genome itself. Curved DNA is involved in many biologically important processes, such as transcription initiation and termination, recombination, DNA replication, and nucleosome positioning. CpG islands and tandem repeats also play significant roles in the dynamics and evolution of genomes. In this study, we analyzed the relationship between these three structural features within rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genomes. A genome-scale prediction of curvature distribution in rice and Arabidopsis indicated that most of the chromosomes of both genomes have maximal chromosomal DNA curvature adjacent to the centromeric region. By analyzing tandem repeats across the genome, we found that frequencies of repeats are higher in regions adjacent to those with high curvature value. Further analysis of CpG islands shows a clear interdependence between curvature value, repeat frequencies and CpG islands. Each CpG island appears in a local minimal curvature region, and CpG islands usually do not appear in the centromere or regions with high repeat frequency. A statistical evaluation demonstrates the significance and non-randomness of these features. This study represents the first systematic genome-scale analysis of DNA curvature, CpG islands and tandem repeats at the DNA sequence level in plant genomes, and finds that not all of the chromosomes in plants follow the same rules common to other eukaryote organisms, suggesting that some of these genomic properties might be considered as specific to plants.
21549224	In plants, flowering as a crucial developmental event is highly regulated by both genetic programs and environmental signals. Genetic analysis of flowering time mutants is instrumental in dissecting the regulatory pathways of flowering induction. In this study, we isolated the OsLF gene by its association with the T-DNA insertion in the rice late flowering mutant named A654. The OsLF gene encodes an atypical HLH protein composed of 419 amino acids (aa). Overexpression of the OsLF gene in wild type rice recapitulated the late flowering phenotype of A654, indicating that the OsLF gene negatively regulates flowering. Flowering genes downstream of OsPRR1 such as OsGI and Hd1 were down regulated in the A654 mutant. Yeast two hybrid and colocalization assays revealed that OsLF interacts strongly with OsPIL13 and OsPIL15 that are potentially involved in light signaling. In addition, OsPIL13 and OsPIL15 colocalize with OsPRR1, an ortholog of the Arabidopsis APRR1 gene that controls photoperiodic flowering response through clock function. Together, these results suggest that overexpression of OsLF might repress expression of OsGI and Hd1 by competing with OsPRR1 in interacting with OsPIL13 and OsPIL15 and thus induce late flowering.
21549462	The acquaintance of arsenic concentrations in rice grain is vital in risk assessment. In this study, we determined the concentration of arsenic in 282 brown rice grains sampled from Hainan Island, China, and discussed its possible relationships to the considered soil properties. Arsenic concentrations in the rice grain from Hainan Island varied from 5 to 309 μg/kg, with a mean (92 μg/kg) lower than most published data from other countries/regions and the maximum contaminant level (MCL) for As(i) in rice. The result of correlation analysis between grain and soil properties showed that grain As concentrations correlated significantly to soil arsenic speciation, organic matter and soil P contents and could be best predicted by humic acid bound and Fe-Mn oxides bound As fractions. Grain arsenic rises steeply at soil As concentrations lower than 3.6 mg/kg and gently at higher concentrations.
21549500	This research investigated the performance of lime-BHA (black rice husk ash) solidified plating sludge with 2 wt% NaO from Na(2)SiO(3) and Na(2)CO(3) at the level of 0, 30 and 50 wt%. The sludge was evaluated for strength development, leachability, solution chemistry and microstructure. The lime-BHA solidified plating sludge with Na(2)SiO(3) and Na(2)CO(3) had higher early strength when compared to the control. The addition of Na(2)SiO(3) and Na(2)CO(3) increased the OH(-) concentration and decreased the Ca(2+) and heavy metal ions in solution after the first minute. The XRD patterns showed that the addition of Na(2)SiO(3) resulted in the formation of calcium silicate hydrates, while the addition of Na(2)CO(3) resulted in CaCO(3). The heavy metals from the plating sludge, especially Zn, were immobilized in calcium zincate and calcium zinc silicate forms for the lime-BHA with and without Na(2)SiO(3) solidified wastes, while samples with Na(2)CO(3) contained Zn that was fixed in the form of CaZnCO(3). The cumulative leaching of Fe, Cr and Zn from the lime-BHA solidified plating sludge decreased significantly when activators were added, especially Na(2)CO(3).
21549591	Seventeen Cyathus stercoreus isolates were tested for their ability to treat rice straw for improved enzymatic saccharification. These isolates showed a negative correlation between cellulase and xylanase activity and enzymatic saccharification yields. Incubation of rice straw pretreated at 60°C for 15 min with strain C. stercoreus TY-2 for 25 days resulted in an enzymatic saccharification yield of 57% as compared to a yield of 11% for the same straw in the absence of the fungus. These findings highlight the potential of this isolate for biological pretreatment of rice straw under conditions of low energy input.
21549592	The materials and energy in an integrated biological hydrogen production and purification system involving hydrolysis, dark fermentation, photo fermentation, CO2 fixation and anaerobic digestion are balanced by integrating the results from multiple experiments, simulations and the literature. The findings are two fold. First, using 1000 kg rice straw as a substrate, 19.8 kg H2 and 138.0 kg CH4 are obtained. The net energy balance (NEB) and net energy ratio (NER) are -738.4 kWh and 77.8%, respectively, both of which imply an unfavorable energy production system. Opportunities to improve the performance particularly lie in the photo fermentation process. Second, greenhouse gas emissions are evaluated for various options. The results were comparable with the emission inventory of electricity generated from fossil fuels. NEB and NER under a zero-carbon-emission constraint were discussed in detail to clarify completely the implications of the energy and material balances on greenhouse gas emissions.
21551030	Efforts to anticipate how climate change will affect future food availability can benefit from understanding the impacts of changes to date. We found that in the cropping regions and growing seasons of most countries, with the important exception of the United States, temperature trends from 1980 to 2008 exceeded one standard deviation of historic year-to-year variability. Models that link yields of the four largest commodity crops to weather indicate that global maize and wheat production declined by 3.8 and 5.5%, respectively, relative to a counterfactual without climate trends. For soybeans and rice, winners and losers largely balanced out. Climate trends were large enough in some countries to offset a significant portion of the increases in average yields that arose from technology, carbon dioxide fertilization, and other factors.
21551079	China has to feed 20% of the global population with only about 5% of the planet's water resources and 7% of its arable land. With such limited natural conditions, however, China's grain production has increased from about 200 kg per capita in 1949 to about 400 kg in the early 1990s. Hunger as a social problem has largely disappeared after being prevalent in China for several thousand years with the rise and decline of dynasties. This achievement has been accompanied by a 2.5-fold increase in the population and a 4.5-fold increase in total grain production. Although total cropped land has increased slightly in some areas, land used for cropping has decreased from 0.18 hectare per capita in the 1950s to less than 0.1 hectare per capita today. Apparently, yield increase or improved land productivity is the major contributor to the increase of food production per capita. What are the major reasons for the unprecedented achievement in China's food production? Political decisions, good or bad, on land distribution and ownership changes, have caused unusual fluctuation in grain production. Technical progress, however, has maintained a long-term increasing trend. The semi-dwarf cultivars of rice and wheat, the use of heterosis in rice and maize, and the alleviation of salinized soil stress in the major grain-producing areas have all played significant roles in increasing China's food production capability.
21551159	Debranching enzymes, which hydrolyze α-1 and 6-glucosidic linkages in α-polyglucans, play a dual role in the synthesis and degradation of starch in plants. A transposon-inserted rice mutant of isoamylase3 (isa3) contained an increased amount of starch in the leaf blade at the end of the night, indicating that ISA3 plays a role in the degradation of transitory starch during the night. An epitope-tagged ISA3 expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited hydrolytic activity on β-limit dextrin and amylopectin. We investigated whether ISA3 plays a role in amyloplast development and starch metabolism in the developing endosperm. ISA3-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein expressed under the control of the rice ISA3 promoter was targeted to the amyloplast stroma in the endosperm. Overexpression of ISA3 in the sugary1 mutant, which is deficient in ISA1 activity, did not convert water-soluble phytoglycogen to starch granules, indicating that ISA1 and ISA3 are not functionally redundant. Both overexpression and loss of function of ISA3 in the endosperm generated pleomorphic amyloplasts and starch granules. Furthermore, chloroplasts in the leaf blade of isa3 seedlings were large and pleomorphic. These results suggest that ISA3 facilitates starch metabolism and affects morphological characteristics of plastids in rice.
21551283	The effects of the Oryza sativa calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase OsCCaMK genotype (dominant homozygous [D], heterozygous [H], recessive homozygous [R]) on rice root-associated bacteria, including endophytes and epiphytes, were examined by using a Tos17 rice mutant line under paddy and upland field conditions. Roots were sampled at the flowering stage and were subjected to clone library analyses. The relative abundance of Alphaproteobacteria was noticeably decreased in R plants under both paddy and upland conditions (0.8% and 3.0%, respectively) relative to those in D plants (10.3% and 17.4%, respectively). Population shifts of the Sphingomonadales and Rhizobiales were mainly responsible for this low abundance in R plants. The abundance of Anaerolineae (Chloroflexi) and Clostridia (Firmicutes) was increased in R plants under paddy conditions. The abundance of a subpopulation of Actinobacteria (Saccharothrix spp. and unclassified Actinosynnemataceae) was increased in R plants under upland conditions. Principal coordinate analysis revealed unidirectional community shifts in relation to OsCCaMK gene dosage under both conditions. In addition, shoot length, tiller number, and plant weight decreased as the OsCCaMK gene dosage decreased under upland conditions. These results suggest significant impacts of OsCCaMK on both the diversity of root-associated bacteria and rice plant growth under both paddy and upland field conditions.
21552557	High salinity soils inhibit crop production worldwide and represent a serious agricultural problem. To meet our ever-increasing demand for food, it is essential to understand and engineer salt-resistant crops. In this study, we evaluated the occurrence and function of sulfated polysaccharides in plants. Although ubiquitously present in marine algae, the presence of sulfated polysaccharides among the species tested was restricted to halophytes, suggesting a possible correlation with salt stress or resistance. To test this hypothesis, sulfated polysaccharides from plants artificially and naturally exposed to different salinities were analyzed. Our results revealed that the sulfated polysaccharide concentration, as well as the degree to which these compounds were sulfated in halophytic species, were positively correlated with salinity. We found that sulfated polysaccharides produced by Ruppia maritima Loisel disappeared when the plant was cultivated in the absence of salt. However, subjecting the glycophyte Oryza sativa Linnaeus to salt stress did not induce the biosynthesis of sulfated polysaccharides but increased the concentration of the carboxylated polysaccharides; this finding suggests that negatively charged cell wall polysaccharides might play a role in coping with salt stress. These data suggest that the presence of sulfated polysaccharides in plants is an adaptation to high salt environments, which may have been conserved during plant evolution from marine green algae. Our results address a practical biological concept; additionally, we suggest future strategies that may be beneficial when engineering salt-resistant crops.
21553108	Nitric oxide (NO) is a key signal molecule involved in many physiological processes in plants. To study the mechanisms of exogenous NO contribution to alleviate the aluminum (Al) toxicity, roots of rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings pre-treated with sodium nitroprusside (SNP, a NO donor) were used to investigate the effect of Al in this study. Results indicated that NO alleviated the lipid peroxidation induced by Al and promoted the root elongation, whereas butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), an efficient lipophilic antioxidant, alleviated the lipid peroxidation only. Rice seedling roots pre-treated with SNP followed by Al treatment had lower contents of pectin and hemicellulose, lower Al accumulation in root tips and cell walls, higher degree of methylation of pectin and lower wall Al-binding capacity than the roots with Al treatment only. Therefore, the decreased Al accumulation in the cell walls of rice roots is likely to be the reason for the NO-induced increase of Al tolerance in rice, and it seems that exogenous NO enhanced Al tolerance in rice roots by decreasing the contents of pectin and hemicellulose, increasing the degree of methylation of pectin, and decreasing Al accumulation in root cell walls.
21553476	The increase of incidence of resistance to the antibiotics became the most worrisome subject within the clinical and research communities in the medical fields. Intrinsic resistance genetic mutations, horizontal transfer of mobile structures carrying genes coding for resistance to the antibiotics within the pan-microbial genome are representing the bacterial resistome which is bearing the genetic information regarding the defensive mechanisms developed by micro-organisms to protect themselves against antibiotics. Rice in the resistance of enteric bacteria, pathogens involved in a large number of human infections, to the cephalosporin of last generation and to the fluoroquinolones is a very actual subject in the medical area. Production of beta-lactamases with extended spectrum is the most important enzymatic defence system, developed by micro-organisms, consisting in the inactivation of beta-lactam antibiotics by destroying the beta-lactam ring. Enterobacteria are able to produce beta-lactamases of type TEM, SHV and/or CTX-M. Punctual mutations in nucleotide structure of bla genes, coding for beta-lactamases synthesis, are leading on production of a large diversity of enzymes with enlarged spectrum of activity (ESBL). At the beginning of 90's the first beta-lactamases resistance to clavulanic acid were detected and in our days more then 170 TEM, 120 SVH and 90 CTX-MESBLs are known. Escherichia coli strains are producing, firstly, TEM ESBLs, Klebsiella pneumoniae SHV ESBLs. and both are producing CTX-M type ESBLs, are resistant to the fluoroquinolones due to punctual mutations in nucleotide structure of gyr gene coding for gyrases production, enzymes involved in nucleic acids replication. Resistance to the antibiotics with extended activity is a public health threat due to their capacity of large spreading within bacterial population, when the coding structures are located on mobile genetic structures. The menace increase when genes coding for fluoroquinolones resistance (qnr) are identified on such of structures.
21554676	In flowering plants, the anther is the site of male gametophyte development. Two major events in the development of the male germline are meiosis and the asymmetric division in the male gametophyte that gives rise to the vegetative and generative cells, and the following mitotic division in the generative cell that produces two sperm cells. Anther transcriptomes have been analyzed in many plant species at progressive stages of development by using microarray and sequence-by synthesis-technologies to identify genes that regulate anther development. Here we report a comprehensive analysis of rice anther transcriptomes at four distinct stages, focusing on identifying regulatory components that contribute to male meiosis and germline development. Further, these transcriptomes have been compared with the transcriptomes of 10 stages of rice vegetative and seed development to identify genes that express specifically during anther development. Transcriptome profiling of four stages of anther development in rice including pre-meiotic (PMA), meiotic (MA), anthers at single-celled (SCP) and tri-nucleate pollen (TPA) revealed about 22,000 genes expressing in at least one of the anther developmental stages, with the highest number in MA (18,090) and the lowest (15,465) in TPA. Comparison of these transcriptome profiles to an in-house generated microarray-based transcriptomics database comprising of 10 stages/tissues of vegetative as well as reproductive development in rice resulted in the identification of 1,000 genes specifically expressed in anther stages. From this sub-set, 453 genes were specific to TPA, while 78 and 184 genes were expressed specifically in MA and SCP, respectively. The expression pattern of selected genes has been validated using real time PCR and in situ hybridizations. Gene ontology and pathway analysis of stage-specific genes revealed that those encoding transcription factors and components of protein folding, sorting and degradation pathway genes dominated in MA, whereas in TPA, those coding for cell structure and signal transduction components were in abundance. Interestingly, about 50% of the genes with anther-specific expression have not been annotated so far. Not only have we provided the transcriptome constituents of four landmark stages of anther development in rice but we have also identified genes that express exclusively in these stages. It is likely that many of these candidates may therefore contribute to specific aspects of anther and/or male gametophyte development in rice. In addition, the gene sets that have been produced will assist the plant reproductive community in building a deeper understanding of underlying regulatory networks and in selecting gene candidates for functional validation.
21554757	Plants have played a special role in inositol polyphosphate (IP) research since in plant seeds was discovered the first IP, the fully phosphorylated inositol ring of phytic acid (IP6). It is now known that phytic acid is further metabolized by the IP6 Kinases (IP6Ks) to generate IP containing pyro-phosphate moiety. The IP6K are evolutionary conserved enzymes identified in several mammalian, fungi and amoebae species. Although IP6K has not yet been identified in plant chromosomes, there are many clues suggesting its presences in vegetal cells. In this paper we propose a new approach to search for the plant IP6K gene, that lead to the identification in plant genome of a nucleotide sequence corresponding to a specific tag of the IP6K family. Such a tag has been found in all IP6K genes identified up to now, as well as in all genes belonging to the Inositol Polyphosphate Kinases superfamily (IPK). The tag sequence corresponds to the inositol-binding site of the enzyme, and it can be considered as characterizing all IPK genes. To this aim we applied a technique based on motif discovery. We exploited DLSME, a software recently proposed, which allows for the motif structure to be only partially specified by the user. First we applied the new method on mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of plants, where such a gene could have been nested, possibly encrypted and hidden by virtue of the editing and/or trans-splicing processes. Then we looked for the gene in nuclear genome of two model plants, Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. The analysis we conducted in plant mitochondria provided the negative, though we argue relevant, result that IP6K does not actually occur in vegetable mtDNA. Very interestingly, the tag search in nuclear genomes lead us to identify a promising sequence in chromosome 5 of Oryza sativa. Further analyses are in course to confirm that this sequence actually corresponds to IP6K mammalian gene.
21555255	We measured all of the D- and L-amino acids in 141 bottles of sakes using HPLC. We used two precolumn derivatization methods of amino acid enantiomer detection with o-phthalaldehyde and N-acetyl-L-cysteine, as well as (+)-1-(9-fluorenyl)ethyl chloroformate/1-aminoadamantane and one postcolumn derivatization method with o-phthalaldehyde and N-acetyl-L-cysteine. We found that the sakes contained the D-amino acids forms of Ala, Asn, Asp, Arg, Glu, Gln, His, Ile, Leu, Lys, Ser, Tyr, Val, Phe, and Pro. We were not able to detect D-Met, D-Thr D-Trp in any of the sakes analyzed. The most abundant D-Ala, D-Asp, and D-Glu ranged from 66.9 to 524.3 μM corresponding to relative 34.4, 12.0, and 14.6% D-enantiomer. The basic parameters that generally determine the taste of sake such as the sake meter value (SMV; "Nihonshudo"), acidity ("Sando"), amino acid value ("Aminosando"), alcohol content by volume, and rice species of raw material show no significant relationship to the D-amino acid content of sake. The brewing water ("Shikomimizu") and brewing process had effects on the D-amino acid content of the sakes: the D-amino acid contents of the sakes brewed with deep-sea water "Kaiyoushinosousui", "Kimoto yeast starter", "Yamahaimoto", and the long aging process "Choukijukusei" are high compared with those of other sakes analyzed. Additionally, the D-amino acid content of sakes that were brewed with the adenine auxotroph of sake yeast ("Sekishoku seishu kobo", Saccharomyces cerevisiae) without pasteurization ("Hiire") increased after storage at 25 °C for three months.
21555278	To provide pharmacists with the basic knowledge to counsel caregivers in appropriate infant formula selection and use. Although the majority of infants are initially breast-fed, a transition to infant formula by the age of 6 months, either as a supplement or a replacement for human milk, is common in the United States. Manufacturers have capitalized on this growing demand for infant formulas to more closely mimic human milk by creating a variety of formulations. The mainstay of the formula market is iron-fortified cow's milk, which may have a distinct variation in carbohydrate, protein, and fat sources, depending on the manufacturer. Formulations are also available to match specific needs of the infant or family, including added rice for reflux, partially or extensively hydrolyzed for allergen sensitivity, or soy based for a vegan diet preference. With an extensive array of infant formulas available, pharmacists and caregivers can be overwhelmed when selecting an appropriate product. However, with careful questioning and a basic knowledge of the available formulas, an initial selection can be provided to caregivers. In addition to assisting in infant formula selection, pharmacists should provide information on proper preparation, handling, and storage of the product.
21556350	Musculoskeletal injuries are on the rise. First-line management of such injuries usually employs the RICE (rest, ice, compression, and elevation) approach to limit excessive inflammation. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are also commonly used to limit inflammation and to control pain. Traumeel(®), a preparation with bioregulatory effects is also used to treat the symptoms associated with acute musculoskeletal injuries, including pain and swelling. Traumeel is a fixed combination of biological and mineral extracts, which aims to apply stimuli to multiple targets to restore normal functioning of regulatory mechanisms. This paper presents the accumulating evidence of Traumeel's action on the inflammatory process, and of its efficacy and tolerability in randomized trials, as well as observational and surveillance studies for the treatment of musculoskeletal injuries. Traumeel has shown comparable effectiveness to NSAIDs in terms of reducing symptoms of inflammation, accelerating recovery, and improving mobility, with a favorable safety profile. While continued research and development is ongoing to broaden the clinical evidence of Traumeel in acute musculoskeletal injury and to further establish its benefits, current information suggests that Traumeel may be considered as an anti-inflammatory agent that is at least as effective and appears to be better tolerated than NSAIDs.
21556691	Der p 2, a major allergen of Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus mites, is one of the most clinically relevant allergens to allergic patients worldwide. FIP-fve protein (Fve) from the golden needle mushroom (Flammulina velutipes) is an immunomodulatory protein with potential Th1-skewed adjuvant properties. Here, we produced and immunologically evaluated a Der p 2-Fve fusion protein as a potential immunotherapeutic for allergic diseases. Using an inducible expression system in cultured rice suspension cells, the recombinant Der p 2-Fve fusion protein (designated as OsDp2Fve) was expressed in rice cells under the control of an α-amylase gene (αAmy8) promoter and secreted under sucrose starvation. OsDp2Fve was partially purified from the cultured medium. The conformation of Der p 2 in OsDp2Fve remains intact as reflected by its unaltered allergenicity, as assessed by human IgE ELISA and histamine release assays, compared to non-fusion Der p 2 protein. Furthermore, the Fve protein expressed in OsDp2Fve retains its in vitro lymphoproliferative activity but loses its hemagglutination and lymphoagglutination effects compared to the native protein. Notably, in vivo evaluation showed that mice administered with OsDp2Fve possessed an enhanced production of Der p 2-specific IgG antibodies without potentiating the production of Der p 2-specific IgE and Th2 effector cytokines in comparison with mice co-administered with native Fve and Der p 2 proteins. These results suggest that the recombinant Der p 2-Fve fusion protein produced in rice suspension cell cultures has a great potential for allergy immunotherapy.
21556707	High temperature has adverse effects on rice yield and quality. The different influences of night high temperature (NHT) and day high temperature (DHT) on rice quality and seed protein accumulation profiles during grain filling in indica rice '9311' were studied in this research. The treatment temperatures of the control, NHT, and DHT were 28°C/20°C, 27°C/35°C, and 35°C/27°C, respectively, and all the treatments were maintained for 20 days. The result of rice quality analysis indicated that compared with DHT, NHT exerted less effect on head rice rate and chalkiness, whereas greater effect on grain weight. Moreover, the dynamic accumulation change profiles of 61 protein spots, differentially accumulated and successfully identified under NHT and DHT conditions, were performed by proteomic approach. The results also showed that the different suppressed extent of accumulation amount of cyPPDKB might result in different grain chalkiness between NHT and DHT. Most identified isoforms of proteins, such as PPDK and pullulanase, displayed different accumulation change patterns between NHT and DHT. In addition, compared with DHT, NHT resulted in the unique accumulation patterns of stress and defense proteins. Taken together, the mechanisms of seed protein accumulation profiles induced by NHT and DHT during grain filling should be different in rice, and the potential molecular basis is discussed in this study.
21557865	To examine dietary patterns among British adults, associations with Na and macronutrient intakes, and implications for dietary advice. Principal component analysis of 7 d weighed dietary records. Adults aged 19-64 years (n 1724). National Diet and Nutrition Survey (2000/2001). High Na intake was associated with more energy-dense diets, higher in fat and SFA (percentage of energy) but lower in non-milk extrinsic sugars (NMES). Eight patterns (PC1 to PC8) explained 40 % of the total variance in food intakes. Three patterns - PC3 (high loadings on bread, fats and cheese), PC2 (meat products, eggs and chips) and PC7 (red meat, sauces and alcohol) - were associated with high Na intake. Of these, PC3 correlated with high Na density and Na:K ratio, while PC2 correlated with fat. By contrast, three patterns - 'health-conscious' (PC1; vegetables, fruit, fruit juice, fish), 'breakfast cereals and milk' (PC6) and 'chicken and rice' (PC8) - were associated with modest Na intake, lower Na density and lower fat and SFA. PC2 was positively correlated, and PC1 was negatively correlated, with adding salt to food. Other patterns were 'tea/coffee and cakes' (PC4; associated with high SFA and NMES) and 'soft drinks and snacks' (PC5; associated with high NMES but not fat or SFA). The dietary patterns of males and females differed slightly. Dietary patterns PC1, PC6, PC8 (vegetables, fruit, fish, milk, breakfast cereals, poultry) were broadly compatible with guidelines for salt, fat, SFA and NMES. However, other patterns tended to be high in either salt or NMES.
21557877	To analyse dietary compliance with WHO/FAO nutritional objectives, identify food subgroups that contribute to discrepancies between dietary intakes and recommendations, and assess food patterns and risk factor profiles at common nutritional targets. The study was a population-based, cross-sectional assessment of the dietary patterns of Tehranian adults. Usual dietary intake was assessed in relation to common nutritional targets of public health (fat, saturated fat, dietary fibre, fruit and vegetables) using a validated FFQ. Metabolic syndrome (MetS) risk factors were diagnosed based on the Iranian-modified diagnostic criteria of the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III. The Tehran Lipid and Glucose Study (2005-2008). A total of 2510 individuals (1121 men and 1389 women), aged between 19 and 70 years. Generally, 68·5 % of total grain ounce-equivalents were derived from refined grains, with rice making up 36·6 % of all grains consumed. Solid fat (61·1 %) contributed more to discretionary energy than did added sugars (38·9 %). There was a twofold difference in fruit and vegetable consumption between the lowest and highest quartile categories of dietary fibre intake. The probability of having MetS was significantly lower in the highest quartile of fibre intake v. the lowest (OR = 0·69, 95 % CI 0·58, 0·84 v. OR = 0·92, 95 % CI 0·80, 1·03; P -trend < 0·001), whereas it was higher in the highest quartile of SFA intake v. the lowest (OR = 0·92, 95 % CI 0·78, 0·98 v. OR = 0·71, 95 % CI 0·62, 0·89; P-trend = 0·01). Complying with common nutritional targets of public health is inversely associated with MetS risk factors in Tehranian adults. These results may initiate measures for future development of regional food-based dietary guidelines.
21558150	Rice is an important crop that is very sensitive to salinity. However, some varieties differ greatly in this feature, making investigations of salinity tolerance mechanisms possible. The cultivar Pokkali is salinity tolerant and is known to have more extensive hydrophobic barriers in its roots than does IR20, a more sensitive cultivar. These barriers located in the root endodermis and exodermis prevent the direct entry of external fluid into the stele. However, it is known that in the case of rice, these barriers are bypassed by most of the Na(+) that enters the shoot. Exposing plants to a moderate stress of 100 mM NaCl resulted in deposition of additional hydrophobic aliphatic suberin in both cultivars. The present study demonstrated that Pokkali roots have a lower permeability to water (measured using a pressure chamber) than those of IR20. Conditioning plants with 100 mM NaCl effectively reduced Na(+) accumulation in the shoot and improved survival of the plants when they were subsequently subjected to a lethal stress of 200 mM NaCl. The Na(+) accumulated during the conditioning period was rapidly released when the plants were returned to the control medium. It has been suggested that the location of the bypass flow is around young lateral roots, the early development of which disrupts the continuity of the endodermal and exodermal Casparian bands. However, in the present study, the observed increase in lateral root densities during stress in both cultivars did not correlate with bypass flow. Overall the data suggest that in rice roots Na(+) bypass flow is reduced by the deposition of apoplastic barriers, leading to improved plant survival under salt stress.
21558309	In higher plants, many extracellular proteins are involved in developmental processes, including cell-cell signaling and cell wall construction. Xylogen is an extracellular arabinogalactan protein (AGP) isolated from Zinnia elegans xylogenic culture medium, which promotes xylem cell differentiation. Xylogen has a unique structure, containing a non-specific lipid transfer protein (nsLTP) domain and AGP domains. We searched for xylogen-type genes in the genomes of land plants, including Arabidopsis thaliana, to further our knowledge of xylogen-type genes as functional extracellular proteins in plants. We found that many xylogen-type genes, including 13 Arabidopsis genes, comprise a gene family in land plants, including Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera, Lotus japonicus, Oryza sativa, Selaginella moellendorffii and Physcomitrella patens. The genes shared an N-terminal signal peptide sequence, a distinct nsLTP domain, one or more AGP domains and a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored sequence. We analyzed transgenic plants harboring promoter::GUS (β-glucuronidase) constructs to test expression of the 13 Arabidopsis xylogen-type genes, and detected a diversity of gene family members with related expression patterns. AtXYP2 was the best candidate as the Arabidopsis counterpart of the Zinnia xylogen gene. We observed two distinct expression patterns for several genes, with some anther specific and others preferentially expressed in the endodermis/pericycle. We conclude that xylogen-type genes, which may have diverse functions, form a novel chimeric AGP gene family with a distinct nsLTP domain.
21558459	Plants have a family of proteins referred to as ICKs (inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinase, CDK) or KRPs (Kip-related proteins) that function to regulate the activities of CDK. Knowledge of these plant CDK inhibitors has been gained mostly from studies of selected members in dicotyledonous plants, particularly Arabidopsis. Much remains to be learned regarding the differences among various members of the ICK/KRP family, and regarding the function and regulation of these proteins in monocotyledonous plants. We analysed ICK-related sequences in the rice (Orysa sativa L. subsp. indica) genome and determined that there are six members with the conserved C-terminal signature region for ICK/KRP proteins. They are referred to as OsiICKs and further analyses were performed. The interactions with CDKs and cyclins were determined by a yeast two-hybrid assay, and cellular localization by fusion with the enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP). The expression of OsiICK6 in different tissues and in response to several treatments was analysed by reverse transcriptase-mediated polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and real-time PCR. Furthermore, OsiICK6 was over-expressed in transgenic rice plants and significant phenotypes were observed. Based on putative protein sequences, the six OsiICKs are grouped into two classes, with OsiICK1 and OsiICK6 in each of the two classes, respectively. Results showed that OsiICK1 and OsiICK6 interacted with OsCYCD, but differed in their interactions with CDKA. Both EGFP:OsiICK1 and EGFP:OsiICK6 were localized in the nucleus. Whereas EGFP:OsiICK6 showed a punctuate subnuclear distribution, OsiICK1 had a homogeneous pattern. Over-expression of OsiICK6 resulted in multiple phenotypic effects on plant growth, morphology, pollen viability and seed setting. In OsiICK6-over-expressing plants, leaves rolled toward the abaxial side, suggesting that cell proliferation is critical in maintaining an even growth along the dorsal-ventral plane of leaf blades.
21558691	Endophytic clostridia present on various plants as obligate anaerobes were surveyed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (TRFLP) analysis specific to the clostridial 16S rRNA gene. Endophytic clostridia were detected in 10 plant types: sugarcane, cultivated rice, corn, tobacco, soybean, bermuda grass, tall fescue, and three mangrove species. Phylogenetically, cluster XIVa clostridia were detected more frequently than cluster I clostridia in aerial parts. Isolation of clostridia from surface-sterilized sugarcane stem validated the TRFLP results. Plant-derived clostridia occupied two unique phylogenetic positions (groups I and II) within cluster XIVa. Most of cluster XIVa clostridia from other sources (e.g., human, animal, and insect intestines) were located outside these groups. Thus two unique groups of cluster XIVa clostridia are widely distributed in plants, including crops. In field-grown soybeans, TRFLP analysis revealed clostridia only in a non-nodulating mutant. Ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) showed that the bacterial community in soybean shoot depended partly on the soybean nodulation genotype.
21558696	Endophytic bacteria are defined as bacteria detected inside surface-sterilized plants or extracted from inside plants and having no visibly harmful effects on the plants. Various kinds of endophytic bacteria, such as Pantoea, Methylobacterium, Azospirillum, Herbaspirillum, Burkholderia and Rhizobium etc., have been found inside rice plants. This minireview summarizes and discusses recent studies of endophytic bacteria residing in rice plants, focusing on flora, origin, movement, and interaction with plants/other microbes and referring to endophytes in other plants. The findings concerning bacterial flora obtained by cultural and non-cultural methods are also compared and discussed. Some attempts to apply endophytes to the rice plant and the resultant effects are introduced. The future perspective to deepen the study of endophytes in terms of both application and basic science is considered.
21558708	Rice paddy soil has been shown to have strong denitrifying activity. However, the microbial populations responsible for the denitrification have not been well characterized. In this study, we employed Stable Isotope Probing (SIP) to study succinate-assimilating denitrifiers in soil microcosms amended with nitrate and (13)C-succinate. Microbial populations represented in (12)C- and (13)C-DNA fractions were different based on denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of the PCR-amplified 16S rRNA gene fragment. A nearly full-length 16S rRNA gene was also amplified, cloned, and sequenced from (13)C-DNA fraction. Both PCR-DGGE and clone library analyses revealed that Burkholderiales and Rhodocyclales dominated the succinate-assimilating population in denitrifying soil after 24 h incubation. Among these, novel Betaproteobacteria, possibly within the order Rhodocyclales, represented 43% of the clones obtained. Nitrite reductase genes, nirS and nirK, were also amplified and cloned from the (13)C-DNA fraction. While most nirK clones in this study were similar to the nirK sequences from Rhizobiales, a majority of the nirS clones were similar to the nirS sequences from Burkholderiales and Rhodocyclales, consistent with the 16S rRNA gene analysis. These groups of bacteria, including the novel Betaproteobacteria, may play an important role in denitrification in rice paddy soil.
21558709	The relationships between soil microbial properties and nitrous oxide emission were examined in upland soil under different tillage systems [no tillage (NT), rotary and plow tillage] and cover crop systems (fallow, cereal rye, and hairy vetch) in 2004 and 2005. Microbiological analyses included the determination of soil ergosterol as an indicator of fungal biomass, bacterial plate counting, and MPN estimations of ammonia oxidizers and denitrifiers. The combined practice of NT with rye-cover crop treatment increased fungal biomass but not bacterial populations in 0-10 cm deep soils. Such increase in fungal biomass was not found in 10-20 cm and 20-30 cm deep cover-cropped NT soil. The combined practice of NT with rye-cover cropping resulted in higher in situ N(2)O emission rates compared with rotary- and plow-till treatments. N(2)O flux was positively correlated with soil ergosterol content but not with denitrifier MPN and other soil chemical properties. These results suggested a significant contribution of fungi to N(2)O emission in cover-cropped NT soils.
21558714	The PCR amplification-based analysis of microbial diversity is subject to potential problems. In this study, to minimize the bias toward a 1:1 ratio in multitemplate PCR, a real-time PCR assay was carried out using a quenching fluorescence dye primer and amplification efficiency was monitored. Then terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) profiling was performed using the PCR product with minimized PCR bias. This method was applied to an analysis of the diversity of the archaeal community in an upland rice field under different tillage systems and winter cover cropping. Terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs) of PCR-amplified archaeal 16S rRNA genes were assigned to the gene sequences recovered from the same soil by using an archaeal 16S rRNA gene clone library. Our results indicated that soil archaeal members were not influenced but the relative abundance of archaeal species particularly those belonging to Crenarchaeota which changed between the tillage and non-tillage treatments.
21560135	Salinity is one of the major threats to production of rice and other agricultural crops worldwide. Although numerous studies have shown that salinity can severely reduce rice yield, little is known about its impact on the chemical composition, processing and sensory characteristics of rice. The objective of the current study was to investigate the effect of salinity on the pasting and textural properties of rice flour as well as on the protein content and composition of rice endosperm. Rice grown under saline conditions had significantly lower yields but substantially higher protein content. The increase in protein content was mainly attributed to increases in the amount of glutelin, with lesser contributions from albumin. Salinity also altered the relative proportions of the individual peptides within the glutelin fraction. Flours obtained from rice grown under saline conditions showed significantly higher pasting temperatures, but lower peak and breakdown viscosities. Rice gels prepared from the flour showed significantly higher hardness and adhesiveness values, compared to the freshwater controls. Salinity can significantly affect the pasting and textural characteristics of rice flour. Although some of the effects could be attributed to changes in protein content of the rice flour, especially the increased glutelin level, the impact of salinity on the physicochemical properties of rice is rather complex and may involve the interrelated effects of other rice components such as starch and lipids.
21560145	To assess the risk of mixtures of six paddy insecticides and their transformation products (TPs) to aquatic organisms in the Sakura River, Japan, their concentrations in the river water were monitored during the rice cultivation season in 2008 and 2009, and acute toxicity tests for Cheumatopsyche brevilineata (caddisflies) and Daphnia magna (daphnids), surrogate test species for caddisflies and cladocerans, respectively, were conducted. The mixture of fipronil, applied in the rice nursery box, and its desulfinyl, sulfide, and sulfone TPs were detected in the river for several months after transplanting, and they were more toxic to C. brevilineata than the other tested compounds. The toxicities of the parent compound and its TPs, such as fipronil and its TPs, may be related to their hydrophobicities. Risk quotients for mixtures (RQ(mix)) of only parent compounds did not exceed 1, but, in mid-June 2009, the RQ(mix) of parent compounds and TPs for caddisflies exceeded 1. Diazinon, fenitrothion, and fenthion sprayed on the rice crop and their TPs posed a sporadic risk for cladocerans, depending on the application timing, whereas fipronil TPs contributed to the RQ(mix) for caddisflies for several months after transplanting. The risk of mixtures of insecticides and their TPs differed seasonally between caddisflies and cladocerans, depending on insecticide application timing and the persistence and toxicity of TPs.
21560297	To explore a reasonable limitation standard for aflatoxins in foods to protect the health of people in China with a cost-benefit analysis. A traditional mathematical model and MOE (margin of exposure) method was used to assess the effect of different limiting standards on health for total aflatoxins and aflatoxin B1 in peanut, corn and rice, and the loss of foods under different limiting standard levels was also calculated. The change of limiting standards for total aflatoxins and aflatoxin B1 in peanut and corn might have no significant influence on reducing the prevalence of liver cancer in China, but the loss of foods was significantly different. The change of limiting standards for total aflatoxins and aflatoxin B1 in ice might have significant influence both on reducing liver cancer and losing foods. The following limiting standards is advisable: 20 microg/kg for total aflatoxins and 15 microg/kg for Aflatoxin B1 in peanut and its products, 20 microg/kg for total aflatoxins and 15 microg/kg for aflatoxin B1 in corn, 10 microg/kg for total aflatoxins and 5 microg/kg or 10 microg/kg for aflatoxin B1 in rice.
21560308	Using Bootstrap method to estimate the ratio of residual pollutants in processed foods to their raw materials in several common foods, comparing the conversion coefficient defined in this article and exploring its significance for applying in the future. Several common foods sorted from the national data base of monitoring pollutants in agricultural products from 2000 to 2006 were used to estimate the ratio of residual lead in processed foods to their raw food materials by Bootstrap method. RESULTS The ratio of residuals in juice, steamed bun, rice flour and bean curd to their raw materials was less than one. That in biscuit, bread, dried tofu and canned fish was almost equal to one, and that in dried pork and preserved eggs was obviously higher than one. These ratios were frequently different from the conversion coefficients. Using Bootstrap method to estimate the ratio of residual concentration of pollutants in several common food is feasible. The amount of pollutants remained in food can be influenced by food processing, while not can be explained only by dilution or concentration.
21560459	Rice, the staple food of the Philippines, is an appropriate vehicle for iron fortification to combat the high prevalence of iron-deficiency anemia. A previous study among schoolchildren supplemented with iron-fortified rice showed a significant reduction in the rate of iron-deficiency anemia from 100% to 33%. To document the processes involved in commercializing iron-fortified rice and to determine its effects on anemia prevalence. This study was conducted on 766 mothers and their children aged 6 to 9 years in Orion, Bataan. Soliciting political support, networking with local organizations, market surveys, and social marketing activities were conducted. The iron content of iron-fortified rice was tested for each production run. Hemoglobin measurements were performed on the mothers and children at baseline and endline. A municipal ordinance to sell iron-fortified rice was issued, while the local federation provided funds to kick off the sale of iron-fortified rice. Sales of iron-fortified rice were highest when the rice was sold at Php 27 (Php 1 = US$0.025) per kilogram and lowest when the price was Php 37 per kilogram or greater. The municipal ordinance was not strictly enforced because of the global rice crisis. Social marketing activities encouraged families to buy iron-fortified rice. The iron content of the iron-rice premix was within the set specification limits of 600 to 760 mg of iron per 100 g of premix, while the iron-fortified rice was within 3 to 3.8 mg of iron and 1 to 2 mg (BC No. 2009-010) per 100 g of raw and cooked fortified rice, respectively. The decrease in the rate of anemia was significant among children (from 17.5% to 12.8%) but not among mothers (from 13.0% to 12.5%) after 9 months of study implementation. Strong political support and intensive social marketing activities are crucial inputs in commercializing iron-fortified rice. Keeping the cost affordable and maintaining the commitment of identified partners were the key factors for providing a continuous supply of iron-fortified rice. Commercializing iron-fortified rice can be considered as one of the strategies for decreasing anemia prevalence.
21561766	In this study, Box-Behnken design (BBD) and response surface methodology (RSM) were used to optimize microwave-assisted FeCl(3) pretreatment conditions of rice straw with respect to FeCl(3) concentration, microwave intensity, irradiation time and substrate concentration. When rice straw was pretreated at the optimal conditions of FeCl(3) concentration, 0.14 mol/L; microwave intensity, 160°C; irradiation time, 19 min; substrate concentration, 109 g/L; and inoculated with Trichoderma viride and Bacillus pumilus, the production of reducing sugars was 6.62 g/L. This yield was 2.9 times higher than that obtained with untreated rice straw. The microorganisms degraded 37.8% of pretreated rice straw after 72 h. The structural characteristic analyses suggest that microwave-assisted FeCl(3) pretreatment damaged the silicified waxy surface of rice straw, disrupted almost all the ether linkages between lignin and carbohydrates, and removed lignin.
21562335	Rubisco limits photosynthetic CO(2) fixation because of its low catalytic turnover rate (k(cat)) and competing oxygenase reaction. Previous attempts to improve the catalytic efficiency of Rubisco by genetic engineering have gained little progress. Here we demonstrate that the introduction of the small subunit (RbcS) of high k(cat) Rubisco from the C(4) plant sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) significantly enhances k(cat) of Rubisco in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa). Three independent transgenic lines expressed sorghum RbcS at a high level, accounting for 30%, 44%, and 79% of the total RbcS. Rubisco was likely present as a chimera of sorghum and rice RbcS, and showed 1.32- to 1.50-fold higher k(cat) than in nontransgenic rice. Rubisco from transgenic lines showed a higher K(m) for CO(2) and slightly lower specificity for CO(2) than nontransgenic controls. These results suggest that Rubisco in rice transformed with sorghum RbcS partially acquires the catalytic properties of sorghum Rubisco. Rubisco content in transgenic lines was significantly increased over wild-type levels but Rubisco activation was slightly decreased. The expression of sorghum RbcS did not affect CO(2) assimilation rates under a range of CO(2) partial pressures. The J(max)/V(cmax) ratio was significantly lower in transgenic line compared to the nontransgenic plants. These observations suggest that the capacity of electron transport is not sufficient to support the increased Rubisco capacity in transgenic rice. Although the photosynthetic rate was not enhanced, the strategy presented here opens the way to engineering Rubisco for improvement of photosynthesis and productivity in the future.
21562696	The aim of this study was to determine the diet of coypu (Myocastor coypus) in two areas (Santa Isabel do Sul wetlands - Area 1, and Santa Marta Farm - Area 2) in the Southern region of Brazil, using microhistological analyses of feces. Twenty-four plant species were identified from collected feces samples. Among the identified species, nine are common in the animals' diet in both areas; the presence of Oriza sativa was not detected in any of the samples. Among the identified species, 84% and 54% of the coypu's diet from Areas 1 and 2, respectively, are aquatic plants. Poaceae family was most common, being found in 82% of the samples from both areas. Paspalum disthichum (Area 1) and Panicum tricholaenoides (Area 2) were the most frequent species on the coypu's diet. The diet comparison for both areas indicates that feeding habits vary depending on the type of habitat, environmental conditions and food availability. The absence of rice in our analysis may be an indication for the preservation of native areas around watercourses, so as to prevent coypu from invading irrigated crops.
21563073	During the last 20 years, the national production of grains has increased 156.1%; productivity increased 93.8% and there has been an increase of 29.1% in cultivated area. Currently, agribusiness is responsible for 40% of Brazilian exports. Nevertheless, there is little quantitative information on the main plant species of economic interest that have been registered and protected in the Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Supply Ministry (MAPA) by public and private companies, as well as by public-private partnerships. Consequently, we investigated the registry and protection of 27 species of economic interest, including the 15 that are the basis of the Brazilian diet, based on the information available on the site CultivarWeb, of MAPA, for the period from 1998 to August 30, 2010. We also examined the legislation that regulates registration and protection procedures and its implications for plant breeding and plant product development. It was found that the private sector controls 73.1% of the registrations and 53.56% of the protections, while 10.73% of the protections were of material developed overseas. Public-private partnerships contributed little to the development of new cultivars, with 0.5% of the registries and 3.61% of the protections. We conclude that plant protection directed private investment to development of wheat and rice varieties, with the greatest public investments directed to corn and sorghum. After the Cultivar Protection Law was implemented, there was restriction of access to germplasm banks, which could inhibit advances in Brazilian plant breeding programs, indicating a need for revision of this legal barrier.
21563694	The accuracy, repeatability, and reproducibility characteristics of a method for measuring levels of zearalenone (ZON) in botanical root products, soybeans, grains, and grain products were determined by an AOAC single-laboratory validation procedure. Replicates of 10 test portions of each powdered root product (black cohosh, ginger, ginseng), brown rice flour, brown rice grain, oat flour, rice bran, soybeans, and wheat flour at each spiking level (ZON at 0, 50, 100, and 200 microg/kg) were analyzed on 3 separate days. Test samples were extracted with methanol-water (75 + 25, v/v). The extracts were centrifuged or filtered, diluted with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing 0.5% Tween 20, and filtered; the filtrates were applied to an immunoaffinity column containing antibodies specific for ZON. After the column was washed with methanol-PBS (15 + 85, v/v) containing 0.5% Tween 20 and then with water, the toxin was eluted from the column with methanol, and the eluate was diluted with water. The eluate containing the toxin was then subjected to RPLC with fluorescence detection. All commodities that were found to contain ZON at < 10 microg/kg were used for the recovery study. The average within-day and between-days recoveries of ZON added at levels of 50-200 microg/kg ranged from 82 to 88% and from 81 to 84%, respectively, for all test commodities. The total average of within- and between-day SD and RSDr values for all test commodities ranged from 2.5 to 7.3 microg/kg and from 4.6 to 6.2%, respectively. HorRat values were <1.3 for all matrixes examined. The tested method was found to be acceptable for the matrixes examined.
21563842	Magnaporthe oryzae is a fungal pathogen that causes blast disease in rice. During its early infection process, during which starvation of nutrients, including nitrogen, prevails before establishment of successful infection, the fungally secreted proteins play an important role in the pathogenicity and stress response. In this study, M. oryzae-secreted proteins were investigated in an N-deficient minimal medium using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DGE) coupled with mass spectrometry analysis (MALDI-TOF-MS and μLC-ESI-MS/MS). The 2-DGE analysis of secreted proteins detected 89 differentially expressed protein spots (14 downregulated and 75 upregulated) responsive to N starvation. Eighty five of the protein spots were identified by mass spectrometry analyses. Identified proteins were mainly cell wall hydrolase enzymes (22.4%), protein and lipid hydrolases (24.7%), reactive oxygen species detoxifying proteins (22.4%), and proteins with unknown function (14.1%), suggesting early production of prerequisite proteins for successful infection of the host. SignalP analysis predicted the presence of signal peptides in 67% of the identified proteins, suggesting that in addition to the classical Golgi/endoplasmic reticulum secretory pathway, M. oryzae might possess other, as yet undefined, secretory pathways. Those nonclassical or leaderless secretion proteins accounted for 25.9% of the total identified proteins by TatP and SecretomeP predictions. Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction of seven randomly selected N-responsive secreted proteins also revealed a good correlation between RNA and protein levels. Taken together, the establishment of the M. oryzae secretome that is responsive to N starvation provides the first evidence of the secretion of 60 unreported and 25 previously known proteins. This developed protein inventory could be exploited to improve our understanding of the secretory mechanisms of M. oryzae and its invasive growth process in rice tissue.
21564590	We report results of cross-species amplification in Dactylis glomerata and Lolium perenne of 12 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) isolated from Lolium multiflorum×Festuca glaucescens, 42 SSRs from Festuca arundinacea and two sequence tagged sites from Oryza sativa. We compared the transferability and diversity between D. glomerata and L. perenne, which are important forage crops. While Nei's gene diversity values were equivalent in both species (from 0.14 to 0.92), the mean number of allele per locus was more important in D. glomerata than in L. perenne (5.45 vs. 4.50). These markers will be used for analysing population structure in grassland populations under agronomic practices.
21564596	We developed 12 polymorphic microsatellite markers for the rice stem borer Chilo suppressalis (Walker). These loci were screened for 96 individuals from eight populations across China. The total number of alleles ranged from 3 to 33 and the expected heterozygosity at these loci ranged from 0.131 to 0.671. These molecular markers will be useful for fully investigating the population structure and host preference of C. suppressalis at fine spatial scales.
21564742	We present a new set of universal de novo sequencing primers targeting noncoding chloroplast DNA. The set of 107 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers span approximately 86% of the noncoding nucleotides in the large single copy region of Nicotiana tabacum, Oryza sativa and the orchid Phalaenopsis aphrodite. PCR tests confirmed the primers are effective in a wide range of monocots and dicots. More than 19.5 kb of cpDNA sequence was obtained across representative orchid genera with up to 82 chloroplast simple sequence repeats (cpSSRs) detected per genus. This primer set will facilitate both phylogenetic studies and rapid discovery of cpSSRs for plants, such as orchids, where there are limited genomic resources.
21565307	A single line flow injection analysis (FIA) method that incorporated a preconcentrator column packed with C(18) particles and capacitively coupled contactless conductivity detector (C(4)D) was developed for the determination of free fatty acid (FFA) in vegetable oils. The carrier stream was methanol/1.5 mM sodium acetate (pH 8) 80:20 (v/v) at a flow rate of 1.0 mL min(-1). Calibration curve was well correlated (r(2)=0.9995) within the range of 1-200 mg L(-1) FFA (expressed as palmitic acid). Sampling rate of 40-60 h(-1) was achieved. Good agreement was found between the standard non-aqueous titrimetry method and the proposed method when applied to the determination of FFA in palm (crude, olein, and refined, bleached and deodorised) and other vegetable (soybean, rice bran, walnut, corn and olive) oils. The proposed method offers distinct advantages over the official method, especially in terms of simplicity, high sampling rate, economy of solvents and sample, offering considerable promise as a low cost automated system that needs minimum human intervention over long periods of time.
21565356	Rice husk (RH), an abundant agricultural residue, was reacted with 2-bromoisobutyryl bromide, to convert it to a heterogeneous polyfunctional macroinitiator for Atom Transfer Radical Polymerization (ATRP). The number of active sites placed on the RH surface was small, but they were ATRP active. Non-polar methyl methacrylate (MMA) and polar acrylonitrile (AN) were polymerized from the RH, and a sequential monomer addition was used to prepare an amphiphilic PMMA-b-PAN copolymer on RH surface. FTIR qualitatively confirmed the grafting. Gravimetric and XPS analysis of the different RH surface compositions indicated thin layers of oligomeric PMMA, PAN, and PMMA-b-PAN. The modified surfaces were mapped by nanomechanical AFM to measure surface roughness, and adhesion and moduli using the Derjaguin-Muller-Toropov model. RH grafted with MMA possessed a roughness value of 7.92, and a hard and weakly adhering surface (13.1 GPa and 16.7 nN respectively) while RH grafted with AN yielded a roughness value of 29 with hardness and adhesion values of 4.0 GPa and 23.5 nN. The PMMA-b-PAN modification afforded a surface with a roughness value of 51.5 nm, with hardness and adhesion values of 3.0 GPa and 75.3 nN.
21565701	The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae's genome encodes a hypothetical protein (MGG_03307) containing a type III CVNH lectin, in which a LysM domain is inserted between individual repeats of a single CVNH domain. At present, no structural or ligand binding data are available for any type III CVNH and functional studies in natural source organisms are scarce. Here, we report NMR solution structure and functional data on MGG_03307. The structure of the CVNH/LysM module revealed that intact and functionally competent CVNH and LysM domains are present. Using NMR titrations, carbohydrate specificities for both domains were determined, and it was found that each domain behaves as an isolated unit without any interdomain communication. Furthermore, live-cell imaging revealed a predominant localization of MGG_03307 within the appressorium, the specialized fungal cell for gaining entry into rice tissue. Our results suggest that MGG_03307 plays a role in the early stages of plant infection.
21565907	Although flowering time is often associated with plant size, little is known about how flowering time genes affect plant architecture. We grew four rice lines having different flowering time genotypes (hd1 ehd1, hd1 Ehd1, Hd1 ehd1 and Hd1 Ehd1) under distinct photoperiod conditions. By using genotype-treatment combinations that resulted in similar flowering times, we were able to compare the effects of flowering time genes on traits related to plant architecture. The results revealed that the combination of Heading-date 1 (Hd1) and Early heading date 1 (Ehd1) can reduce the number of primary branches in a panicle, resulting in smaller spikelet numbers per panicle; this occurs independently of the control of flowering time. In addition, expression of the Hd3a and Rice Flowering-locus T 1 (RFT1) florigen genes was up-regulated in leaves of the Hd1 Ehd1 line at the time of the floral transition. We further revealed that Hd1 and/or Ehd1 caused up-regulation of Terminal Flower 1-like genes and precocious expression of panicle formation-related genes at shoot apical meristems during panicle development. Therefore, two key flowering time genes, Hd1 and Ehd1, can control panicle development in rice; this may affect crop yields in the field through florigen expression in leaf.
21566368	Endophytic bacteria are considered to originate from the external environment. To examine the hypothesis that rice (Oryza sativa, cultivar Kinuhikari) seeds are a source of endophytic bacteria, we isolated endophytic bacteria from the shoots, remains of the seeds, and roots of rice seedlings that were aseptically cultivated in vitro from surface-disinfected seeds. Of the various bacterial strains isolated, the closest relatives, identified by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, were: Bacillus firmus, B. fusiformis, B. pumilus, Caulobacter crescentus, Kocuria palustris, Micrococcus luteus, Methylobacterium fujisawaense, Me. radiotolerans, and Pantoea ananatis. The latter three species have been detected frequently inside both rice seedlings and mature rice plants. These results indicate that rice seeds are an important source of endophytic bacteria. The bacteria that colonize the seed interior appear to infect the subsequent generation via rice seeds and become the dominant endophytic species in the mature plant.
21567893	Pyrazosulfuron-ethyl {ethyl 5-[(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-ylcarbamoyl)-sulfamoyl]-1-methylpyrazole-4-carboxylate} is a new rice herbicide belonging to the sulfonylurea group. This study reports the translocation of (14)C-pyrazosulfuron-ethyl to rice plants and its degradation in rice-planted and unplanted soil. Pyrazosulfuron-ethyl did not show any appreciable translocation to rice shoots, as (14)C-activity translocated to the aerial portion never exceeded 1% of the initially applied (14)C-activity over a 25 day period. Results suggested that the dissipation of pyrazosulfuron-ethyl from soils followed first-order kinetics with a half-life of 5.5 and 6.9 days in rice-planted and unplanted soils respectively. HPLC analysis of the organic extract of soil samples showed the formation of three metabolites, namely ethyl 5-(aminosulfonyl)-1-methyl-1-H-pyrazole-4-carboxylate, 5-[({[(4,6-dimethoxy-2 pyrimidinyl)-amino]-carbonyl} amino)-sulfonyl]-1-methyl-1H-pyrazole-4-carboxylic acid and 2-amino-4,6-dimethoxy pyrimidine, in both rice-planted and unplanted soils. The study indicates that pyrazosulfuron-ethyl was a short-lived compound in the soil and was degraded relatively faster in rice-planted soil than in unplanted soil. The herbicide did not show any appreciable translocation to rice plants.
21568342	Our previous studies have demonstrated that anthocyanin extract from black rice (AEBR) inhibits atherosclerosis. Whether dietary AEBR supplementation can affect platelet function, an important factor in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases, remains unclear. The aim of the present study is to explore the effects and mechanisms of dietary AEBR supplementation on platelet function and lipid profile in dyslipidemic rats. We demonstrated herein that thromboxane A(2), the thrombogenic ratio of thromboxane A₂ and prostacyclin, serum calmodulin, and soluble P-selectin were significantly decreased in rats fed a high fat diet supplemented with AEBR. AEBR supplementation also remarkably lowered serum triglyceride and raised hepatic CPT-1 mRNA expression. These findings suggest that dietary intake of AEBR reduces platelet hyperactivity, hypertriglyceridemia, and body weight gain, and facilitates in the maintenance of optimal platelet function in dyslipidemic rats induced by high fat diets.
21568822	In the present study, the effect of debittered lupin flour (LF) and whole buckwheat flour (BF) on the nutritional and sensory quality of gluten-free cake was studied. LF (10, 20, 30 and 40%) and BF (5, 10, 15 and 20%) were partially replaced with corn starch and rice flour mixture (1:1 w/w) in the gluten-free cake recipe. LF increased the protein, calcium, iron, manganese, phosphorus and zinc contents of the cakes, while BF caused a significant increase (P < 0.05) especially in potassium and magnesium contents of the gluten-free cakes. According to the overall acceptability rating, it was concluded that gluten-free cake could be produced with satisfactory results by the addition of LF and BF up to 30% and 10%, respectively.
21569036	Feral plants have evolved from well-studied crops, providing good systems for elucidation of how weediness evolves. As yet, they have been largely neglected for this purpose. The evolution of weediness can occur by simple back mutations in domestication genes (domestication in reverse). Whether the evolutionary steps to weediness always occur in reverse remains largely unknown. We examined seed germination behavior in recently evolved weedy rice (Oryza sativa f. spontanea) populations and their coexisting cultivars in eastern and north-eastern China to address whether 'dedomestication' is the simple reverse of domestication. We found that these weedy populations did not diverge from their progenitors by reverting to the pre-domestication trait of seed dormancy. Instead, they have evolved a novel mechanism to avoid growing in inappropriate environments via changes in critical temperature cues for seed germination. Furthermore, we found evidence for subsequent ecotypic divergence of these populations such that the critical temperature for germination correlates with the local habitat temperature at latitudinal gradients. The origins of problematic plant species, weeds and invasives, have already been studied in detail. These plants can thus be used as systems for studying rapid evolution. To determine whether and how that evolution is adaptive, experiments such as those described here can be performed.
21569061	A field experiment was conducted with cultivation of hybrid and conventional cultivars in a rice paddy from China. Rhizosphere soil was sampled and CO(2) flux was measured at tillering (S1), grain filling (S2) and ripening (S3) across the growth stages. Microbial community structure, abundance and activity were analyzed using a combination of functional (enzymes) and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and real-time PCR molecular approaches. Invertase and urease activities, total microbial biomass carbon, bacterial 16S rRNA and fungal internal transcribed spacer rRNA gene copies were found to be the highest at S2 under both cultivars, being greater under the hybrid cultivar than under the conventional cultivar across the stages. Moreover, the CO(2) flux was 11%, 16% and 25% higher under the hybrid cultivar than under the conventional cultivar at S1, S2 and S3, respectively. Principal component analyses of the PCR-DGGE profile revealed a significant difference between conventional and hybrid cultivars across growth stages. Sequencing DGGE bands of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene showed that a particular bacterial group of Alphaproteobacteria was enhanced and several distinct operational taxonomic units markedly resembled Ascomycota under the hybrid cultivar. These illustrate a significant selection of a particular group of bacteria and fungi of the hybrid cultivar. However, the potential impacts of these cultivar effects in soil C and N cycling deserve further field studies.
21570104	Increasing fertilizer phosphorus (P) application in agriculture has greatly contributed to the increase of crop yields during the last decades in China but it has also increased P flows in food production and consumption. The relationship between P use efficiency and P flow is not well quantified at national level. In present paper we report on P flows and P use efficiencies in rice, wheat, and maize production in China using the NUFER model. Conservation strategies for P utilization and the impact of these strategies on P use efficiency have been evaluated. Total amounts of P input to wheat, rice, and maize fields were 1095, 1240, and 1128 Gg, respectively, in China, approximately 80% of which was in chemical fertilizers. The accumulation of P annually in the fields of wheat, rice, and maize was 29.4, 13.6, and 21.3 kg ha(-1), respectively. Phosphorus recovered in the food products of wheat, rice, and maize accounted for only 12.5%, 13.5%, and 3.8% of the total P input, or 3.2%, 2.6%, and 0.9% of the applied fertilizer P, respectively. The present study shows that optimizing phosphorus flows and decreasing phosphorus losses in crop production and utilization through improved nutrient management must be considered as an important issue in the development of agriculture in China.
21570939	In June, 2003, Egypt's hospital-based electronic disease surveillance system began to record increased cases of acute febrile illness from governorates in the Nile Delta. In response to a request for assistance from the Egyptian Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization (WHO), the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 (NAMRU-3) provided assistance in identifying the cause and extent of this outbreak. Testing of human clinical samples (n=375) from nine governorates in Egypt identified 29 cases of RVF viremia that spanned the period of June to October, and a particular focus of disease in Kafr el Sheikh governorate (7.7% RVF infection rate). Veterinary samples (n=101) collected during this time in Kafr el Sheikh and screened by immunoassay for RVFV-specific IgM identified probable recent infections in cattle (10.4%) and sheep (5%). Entomologic investigations that focused in rural, rice growing villages in the Sidi Salim District of Kafr el Sheikh during August-September, 2003, collected, identified, and tested host-seeking female mosquitoes for the presence of pathogenic viruses. Three isolates of RVF virus (RVFV) were obtained from 297 tested pools of female mosquitoes and all three RVFV isolates came from Cx. antennatus (Becker). While Cx. pipiens has been considered the primary vector of RVF virus in Egypt and is often the most common man-biting species found, Cx. antennatus was the dominant species captured at the 2003 outbreak location in Kafr el Sheikh governorate. This is the first time that Cx. antennatus has been found naturally infected with RVFV in Egypt.
21571011	Cholera is a communicable disease caused by consumption of contaminated food and water. This potentially fatal intestinal infection is characterised by profuse secretion of rice watery stool that can rapidly lead to severe dehydration and shock, thus requiring treatment to be given immediately. Epidemic and pandemic cholera are exclusively associated with Vibrio cholerae serogroups O1 and O139. In light of the need for rapid diagnosis of cholera and to prevent spread of outbreaks, we have developed and evaluated a direct one-step lateral flow biosensor for the simultaneous detection of both V. cholerae O1 and O139 serogroups using alkaline peptone water culture. Serogroup specific monoclonal antibodies raised against lipopolysaccharides (LPS) were used to functionalize the colloidal gold nanoparticles for dual detection in the biosensor. The assay is based on immunochromatographic principle where antigen-antibody reaction would result in the accumulation of gold nanoparticles and thus, the appearance of a red line on the strip. The dry-reagent dipstick format of the biosensor ensure user-friendly application, rapid result that can be read with the naked eyes and cold-chain free storage that is well-suited to be performed at resource-limited settings.
21571269	To investigate place of delivery, umbilical cord-cutting instruments used, and substances applied to the cord stump in Bangladesh. A cross-sectional data analysis was performed on a nationally representative sample of 4925 women of reproductive age (15-49 years) with at least 1 child. More than 80% of women delivered at home. In 6% of cases, blades from a clean-delivery kit (CDK) were used to cut the cord; in 90% of cases, the blades used were from another source; in 4% of cases, other instruments such as bamboo strips and scissors were used to cut the cord. In 51% of cases, a substance (e.g. antibiotic powder/ointment, alcohol/spirit, mustard oil with garlic, boric powder, turmeric, and chewed rice) was applied to the stump after the cord was cut. The present findings underscore the need for further advocacy, availability, and use of cord-cutting instruments from CDKs, especially for deliveries that occur outside healthcare facilities.
21571672	Microarray experiments have yielded massive amounts of expression information measured under various conditions for the model species Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa). Expression compendia grouping multiple experiments make it possible to define correlated gene expression patterns within one species and to study how expression has evolved between species. We developed a robust framework to measure expression context conservation (ECC) and found, by analyzing 4,630 pairs of orthologous Arabidopsis and rice genes, that 77% showed conserved coexpression. Examples of nonconserved ECC categories suggested a link between regulatory evolution and environmental adaptations and included genes involved in signal transduction, response to different abiotic stresses, and hormone stimuli. To identify genomic features that influence expression evolution, we analyzed the relationship between ECC, tissue specificity, and protein evolution. Tissue-specific genes showed higher expression conservation compared with broadly expressed genes but were fast evolving at the protein level. No significant correlation was found between protein and expression evolution, implying that both modes of gene evolution are not strongly coupled in plants. By integration of cis-regulatory elements, many ECC conserved genes were significantly enriched for shared DNA motifs, hinting at the conservation of ancestral regulatory interactions in both model species. Surprisingly, for several tissue-specific genes, patterns of concerted network evolution were observed, unveiling conserved coexpression in the absence of conservation of tissue specificity. These findings demonstrate that orthologs inferred through sequence similarity in many cases do not share similar biological functions and highlight the importance of incorporating expression information when comparing genes across species.
21571948	The circadian clock controls physiological traits such as flowering time, photosynthesis, and growth in plants under laboratory conditions. Under natural field conditions, however, little is known about the significance of the circadian clock in plants. By time-course transcriptome analyses of rice (Oryza sativa) leaves, using a newly isolated rice circadian clock-related mutant carrying a null mutation in Os-GIGANTEA (Os-GI), we show here that Os-GI controlled 75% (false discovery rate = 0.05) of genes among 27,201 genes tested and was required for strong amplitudes and fine-tuning of the diurnal rhythm phases of global gene expression in the field. However, transcripts involved in primary metabolism were not greatly affected by osgi. Time-course metabolome analyses of leaves revealed no trends of change in primary metabolites in osgi plants, and net photosynthetic rates and grain yields were not affected. By contrast, some transcripts and metabolites in the phenylpropanoid metabolite pathway were consistently affected. Thus, net primary assimilation of rice was still robust in the face of such osgi mutation-related circadian clock defects in the field, unlike the case with defects caused by Arabidopsis thaliana toc1 and ztl mutations in the laboratory.
21573164	Cytosine DNA methylation is an important epigenetic modification termed as the fifth base that functions in diverse processes. Till now, the genome-wide DNA methylation maps of many organisms has been reported, such as human, Arabidopsis, rice and silkworm, but the methylation pattern of bird remains rarely studied. Here we show the genome-wide DNA methylation map of bird, using the chicken as a model organism and an immunocapturing approach followed by high-throughput sequencing. In both of the red jungle fowl and the avian broiler, DNA methylation was described separately for the liver and muscle tissue. Generally, chicken displays analogous methylation pattern with that of animals and plants. DNA methylation is enriched in the gene body regions and the repetitive sequences, and depleted in the transcription start site (TSS) and the transcription termination site (TTS). Most of the CpG islands in the chicken genome are kept in unmethylated state. Promoter methylation is negatively correlated with the gene expression level, indicating its suppressive role in regulating gene transcription. This work contributes to our understanding of epigenetics in birds.
21573763	Without consideration of other linked QTLs responsible for dynamic trait, original functional mapping based on a single QTL model is not optimal for analyzing multiple dynamic trait loci. Despite that composite functional mapping incorporates the effects of genetic background outside the tested QTL in mapping model, the arbitrary choice of background markers also impact on the power of QTL detection. In this study, we proposed Bayesian functional mapping strategy that can simultaneously identify multiple QTL controlling developmental patterns of dynamic traits over the genome. Our proposed method fits the change of each QTL effect with the time by Legendre polynomial and takes the residual covariance structure into account using the first autoregressive equation. Also, Bayesian shrinkage estimation was employed to estimate the model parameters. Especially, we specify the gamma distribution as the prior for the first-order auto-regressive coefficient, which will guarantee the convergence of Bayesian sampling. Simulations showed that the proposed method could accurately estimate the QTL parameters and had a greater statistical power of QTL detection than the composite functional mapping. A real data analysis of leaf age growth in rice is used for the demonstration of our method. It shows that our Bayesian functional mapping can detect more QTLs as compared to composite functional mapping.
21573806	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) seminal roots are the primary roots to emerge from germinated seeds. Here, we demonstrate that the photomorphology of the seminal roots was diverse among rice varieties, and the light-induced wavy roots were found mostly in indica-type rice varieties. The light-induced wavy morphology in rice seminal roots has been different with curling or coiling roots in some other specific conditions, such as high air humidity or high nitrogen nutrient. The efficiency of light-induced root waving was developmental stage dependent. The wavy root phenotype was caused by asymmetric cell growth around the stele. Using the inhibitors to block auxin polar transport and fatty acid oxygenation, the role of auxin and oxylipins in the morphogenesis of light-induced wavy roots was investigated. Expressions of genes encoded in the enzymes involved in fatty acid oxygenation in light-exposed roots were monitored by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Our results suggested that auxin polar transport was essential for inducing wavy seminal roots by light stimulus. In addition, the ketol oxylipins derived from allene oxide synthase (EC 4.2.1.92)-mediated fatty acid oxygenation function as intracellular signals for triggering the light-induced wavy root phenotype.
21574265	Human lysozyme and hen egg-white lysozyme have antibacterial, antiviral, and antifungal properties with numerous potential commercial applications. Currently, hen egg-white lysozyme dominates low cost applications but the recent high-level expression of human lysozyme in rice could provide an economical source of lysozyme. This work compares human lysozyme and hen egg-white lysozyme adsorption to the cation exchange resin, SP-Sepharose FF, and the effect of rice extract components on lysozyme purification. With one exception, the dynamic binding capacities of human lysozyme were lower than those of hen egg-white at pH 4.5, 6, and 7.5 with ionic strengths ranging from 0 to 100 mM (5-20 mS). Ionic strength and pH had a similar effect on the adsorption capacities, but human lysozyme was more sensitive to these two factors than hen egg-white lysozyme. In the presence of rice extract, the dynamic binding capacities of human and hen egg-white lysozymes were reduced by 20-30% and by 32-39% at pH 6. Hen egg-white lysozyme was used as a benchmark to compare the effectiveness of human lysozyme purification from transgenic rice extract. Process simulation and cost analyses for human lysozyme purification from rice and hen egg-white lysozyme purification from egg-white resulted in similar unit production costs at 1 ton per year scale.
21575088	Currently, there are strong inconsistencies in our knowledge of plant heterotrimeric G-proteins that suggest the existence of additional members of the family. We have identified a new Arabidopsis G-protein γ-subunit (AGG3) that modulates morphological development and ABA-regulation of stomatal aperture. AGG3 strongly interacts with the Arabidopsis G-protein β-subunit in vivo and in vitro. Most importantly, AGG3-deficient mutants account for all but one of the 'orphan' phenotypes previously unexplained by the two known γ-subunits in Arabidopsis. AGG3 has unique characteristics never before observed in plant or animal systems, such as its size (more than twice that of canonical γ-subunits) and the presence of a C-terminal Cys-rich domain. AGG3 thus represent a novel class of G-protein γ-subunits, widely spread throughout the plant kingdom but not present in animals. Homologues of AGG3 in rice have been identified as important quantitative trait loci for grain size and yield, but due to the atypical nature of the proteins their identity as G-protein subunits was thus far unknown. Our work demonstrates a similar trend in seeds of Arabidopsis agg3 mutants, and implicates G-proteins in such a crucial agronomic trait. The discovery of this highly atypical subunit reinforces the emerging notion that plant and animal G-proteins have distinct as well as shared evolutionary pathways.
21575196	Protein-protein interactions play a fundamental role in elucidating the molecular mechanisms of biomolecular function, signal transductions and metabolic pathways of living organisms. Although high-throughput technologies such as yeast two-hybrid system and affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry are widely used in model organisms, the progress of protein-protein interactions detection in plants is rather slow. With this motivation, our work presents a computational approach to predict protein-protein interactions in Oryza sativa. To better understand the interactions of proteins in Oryza sativa, we have developed PRIN, a Predicted Rice Interactome Network. Protein-protein interaction data of PRIN are based on the interologs of six model organisms where large-scale protein-protein interaction experiments have been applied: yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), worm (Caenorhabditis elegans), fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster), human (Homo sapiens), Escherichia coli K12 and Arabidopsis thaliana. With certain quality controls, altogether we obtained 76,585 non-redundant rice protein interaction pairs among 5,049 rice proteins. Further analysis showed that the topology properties of predicted rice protein interaction network are more similar to yeast than to the other 5 organisms. This may not be surprising as the interologs based on yeast contribute nearly 74% of total interactions. In addition, GO annotation, subcellular localization information and gene expression data are also mapped to our network for validation. Finally, a user-friendly web interface was developed to offer convenient database search and network visualization. PRIN is the first well annotated protein interaction database for the important model plant Oryza sativa. It has greatly extended the current available protein-protein interaction data of rice with a computational approach, which will certainly provide further insights into rice functional genomics and systems biology. PRIN is available online at http://bis.zju.edu.cn/prin/.
21575644	Identification of protein coding regions is fundamentally a statistical pattern recognition problem. Discriminant analysis is a statistical technique for classifying a set of observations into predefined classes and it is useful to solve such problems. It is well known that outliers are present in virtually every data set in any application domain, and classical discriminant analysis methods (including linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and quadratic discriminant analysis (QDA)) do not work well if the data set has outliers. In order to overcome the difficulty, the robust statistical method is used in this paper. We choose four different coding characters as discriminant variables and an approving result is presented by the method of robust discriminant analysis.
21576467	Detection of microbes by plants relies in part on an array of pattern-recognition receptors that recognize conserved microbial signatures, so-called "microbe-associated molecular patterns." The Arabidopsis thaliana receptor-like kinase FLS2 is the pattern-recognition receptor for bacterial flagellin. Similarly to FLS2, the rice transmembrane protein XA21 is the receptor for the sulfated form of the Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae secreted protein Ax21. Here we show that Ax21-derived peptides activate Arabidopsis immunity, triggering responses similar to those elicited by flagellin, including an oxidative burst, induction of defense-response genes, and enhanced resistance to bacterial pathogens. To identify Arabidopsis Xa21 functional homologs, we used a reverse genetics approach to screen T-DNA insertion mutants corresponding to all 47 of the Arabidopsis genes encoding non-RD kinases belonging to the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) family. Surprisingly, among all of these mutant lines, only fls2 mutants exhibited a significant loss of response to Ax21-derived peptides. Ax21 peptides also failed to activate defense-related responses in an fls2-24 mutant that does not bind Flg22. Moreover, a Flg22Δ2 variant of Flg22 that binds to FLS2 but does not activate FLS2-mediated signaling suppressed Ax21-derived peptide signaling, indicating mutually exclusive perception of Flg22 or Ax21 peptides by FLS2. The data indicate that FLS2 functions beyond flagellin perception to detect other microbe-associated molecular patterns.
21576852	We analyzed the quantity and diversity of nitrite reductase genes (nirS and nirK) in rice paddy soil before and after inducing denitrification. A quantitative PCR analysis showed that the copy number of nirK, but not nirS, increased significantly in response to the denitrification-inducing conditions. Diverse nirS and nirK clones were identified by clone library analyses. Clones related to the NirS of Burkholderiales and Rhodocyclales, and NirK distantly related to known denitrifiers increased their proportion in response to the denitrification-inducing conditions, and therefore, might be involved in denitrification in rice paddy soil.
21576855	Inoculation experiments with the endophytic bacterium Azospirillum sp. strain B510, an isolate from surface-sterilized stems of field-grown rice, were conducted in pots in a greenhouse, and in paddy fields in Hokkaido, Japan. B510 significantly enhanced the growth of newly generated leaves and shoot biomass under greenhouse conditions. When rice seedlings were treated with 1×10(8) CFU ml(-1), then transplanted to paddy fields, tiller numbers and seed yield significantly increased. Azospirillum sp. strain B510 is a promising bacterial inoculant for plant growth promotion and agricultural practices.
21576868	The community structure of methane-oxidizing bacteria (methanotrophs) is affected by concentrations of methane and oxygen. In rice fields, concentrations of both gases differ significantly between the flooded and drained seasons. We investigated the active methanotrophic community structures in flooded and drained soils by DNA-based stable isotope probing. Active methanotrophic diversity was assessed with clone library-based analyses of the 16S rRNA gene and the particulate methane monooxygenase gene (pmoA). The active methanotrophic populations were also estimated by group-specific quantitative real-time PCR assays targeting the 16S rRNA gene and the pmoA gene in (13)C-labeled DNA. These molecular biological analyses showed that the flooded rice field soil was dominated by Type II methanotrophs closely related to the genera Methylocystis and Methylosinus, whereas the drained rice field soil was dominated by Type I methanotrophs closely related to the genera Methylomonas, Methylosarcina, and Methylomicrobium. The alternating conditions in a rice field select for methanotrophs adapted to each environment, resulting in a dramatic change in methanotrophic community structure from one season to another.
21576877	The factors of alternating flooding and draining during the vegetative growth phase and applying compost to investigate changes in bacterial community composition between the system of rice intensification (SRI) and conventionally managed rice were investigated. 16S rRNA gene T-RFLP analysis showed the major changes in the bacterial communities from the beginning of cultivation to vegetative phase, at which time the groups formed remained consistent until the end of cropping season. Significant and consistent separations of microbial communities between the two systems were revealed. These results suggested that the differences in rice cultivation practice can cause the changes in microbial communities.
21576891	Acidic and osmotic treatments are part of hurdle systems to control pathogens such as Salmonella in food. In the current study, Salmonella enterica isolates previously shown to differ in their ability to form biofilms were grown in diluted tryptic soy broth (TSB) (1:5 dilution in distilled water) and subsequently exposed to phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) adjusted to pH 3.0 with HCl, PBS adjusted to pH 3.9 with acetic acid or rice vinegar diluted 1:15 with distilled water (pH 3.9). Cells grown in diluted TSB were also exposed to distilled water, pH 7.6, containing 5 M NaCl. No differences in survival upon exposure to PBS adjusted to pH 3.0 with HCl or distilled water containing high salt were observed between the isolates; however, exposure to acetic acid and rice vinegar resulted in lower survival levels of isolates previously shown to be poor biofilm formers. The numbers (log(10) cfu/ml) of surviving cells after exposure for 36 hr to acetic acid and rice vinegar were 4.43 ± 0.24 vs. 2.27 ± 0.87 (P<0.05) and 5.19 ± 0.12 vs. 2.33 ± 0.93 (P<0.05) for isolates with a high vs. low biofilm-forming ability. The survival data could be fitted with the Weibull model. The data suggest that the ability of Salmonella strains to survive in the presence of acetic acid and rice vinegar parallels their ability to form biofilms. Thus, Salmonella with a high biofilm-formation capability might be more difficult to kill with acetic acid found in foods or cleaning solutions.
2158075
2158117	Data from 10 Philippine rice rats show the two-phase pattern of lithium elimination from plasma, confirming and extending earlier work.
21584117	Drug use has been an integral part of any culture. The use depends on many factors including the availability. In the present study the drug use in a rural community of Chotanagpur Plateau in the Ranchi district of Bihar is focussed. The sample consisted of 157 inhabitants above the age of 15 yrs of the village Boreya in Kanke block. A sample of drug users was compared with nondrug users of the same community on the measures of stressful life events and locus of control. The results indicate that besides tobacco alcohol in the form of locally brewed 'handia' (rice beer) and 'mahua' (made from mahua flowers) was used by 334 (28.87%) individuals. Cannabis was frequently used (25.15%) Harder drugs were not used at all. There was an increase in stressful life events in the year prior to the use of drugs. The increase in life events was especially seen in the elderly age group (35-50yrs). There was no difference in the locus of control scores between the users and the nonusers. The results indicate the role of significant life events in the current use of drugs.
21584395	Recent studies have revealed that the prevalence of Wolbachia in arthropods is attributable not only to its vertical transmission, but also to its horizontal transfer. In order to assess the horizontal transmission of Wolbachia between predator and prey, arthropods belonging to 11 spider families and six insect families were collected in the same field of rice. The distribution of Wolbachia in these arthropods was detected by diagnostic PCR amplification of the wsp (Wolbachia outer surface protein gene) and 16S rDNA genes. Nurscia albofasciata Strand (Araneae: Titanoecidae), Propylea japonica Thunberg (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), Paederus fuscipes Curtis (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae), and Nilaparvata lugens Stal (Homoptera: Delphacidae) were infected with Wolbachia. This is the first report of infection of N. albofasciata and P. fuscipes by Wolbachia. No direct evidence indicated the existence of horizontal transmission of Wolbachia between predator and prey.
21584762	We present a novel method for imaging acoustic communication between nocturnal animals. Investigating the spatio-temporal calling behavior of nocturnal animals, e.g., frogs and crickets, has been difficult because of the need to distinguish many animals' calls in noisy environments without being able to see them. Our method visualizes the spatial and temporal dynamics using dozens of sound-to-light conversion devices (called "Firefly") and an off-the-shelf video camera. The Firefly, which consists of a microphone and a light emitting diode, emits light when it captures nearby sound. Deploying dozens of Fireflies in a target area, we record calls of multiple individuals through the video camera. We conduct two experiments, one indoors and the other in the field, using Japanese tree frogs (Hyla japonica). The indoor experiment demonstrates that our method correctly visualizes Japanese tree frogs' calling behavior. It has confirmed the known behavior; two frogs call synchronously or in anti-phase synchronization. The field experiment (in a rice paddy where Japanese tree frogs live) also visualizes the same calling behavior to confirm anti-phase synchronization in the field. Experimental results confirm that our method can visualize the calling behavior of nocturnal animals in their natural habitat.
21584867	Drugs that selectively inhibit the serotonin transporter (SERT) are widely used in the treatment of depression and anxiety disorders. These agents are associated with a range of extrapyramidal syndromes such as akathisia, dystonia, dyskinesia and parkinsonism, suggesting an effect on dopaminergic transmission. We studied the time course of changes in dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) after initiation of two different SERT inhibitors, citalopram and fluoxetine. In the first experiment, groups of Sprague-Dawley rats received daily meals of rice pudding either alone (N = 9) or mixed with citalopram 5 mg/kg/day (N = 27). Rats were sacrificed after 24 h, 7 days or 28 days of treatment. Sections of SN were processed for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry. Citalopram induced a significant decrease in TH-positive cell counts at 24 h (44%), 7 days (38%) and 28 days (33%). No significant differences among the citalopram treatment groups were observed in the SN. To determine whether these changes would occur with other SERT inhibitors, we conducted a second experiment, this time with a 28 day course of fluoxetine. As was observed with citalopram, fluoxetine induced a significant 21% reduction of TH cell counts in the SN. Immunoblot analysis showed that fluoxetine also induced a 45% reduction of striatal TH. To investigate a possible role for the innate immune system in mediating these changes, we also studied the microglial marker OX42 after administration of fluoxetine and noted a significant 63% increase in the SN of fluoxtine-treated animals. These results indicate that SERT inhibition can activate microglia and alter the regulation of TH, the rate limiting enzyme for dopamine biosynthesis. These changes may play a role in mediating the extrapyramidal side effects associated with SERT inhibitors.
21585022	To probe into the new idea along with establishment of a novel method for dynamic monitoring and early-warning on the wild resources of traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs). The alterations of wild traditional Chinese medicinal resources were assessed through the price ratio between drug and foodstuff (PRDF) indicating the balance between supply and demand of the specific TCMs, referred to the price ration between pork to foodstuff which is used in national monitoring to the balance between pork supply and demand. Since the price of rice was tightly controlled by government, it was selected as a relatively stable reference to build the PRDF in order to take away the non-marketing influence to TCMs price such as CPI and inflation rate. The modified relative alteration trend of TCMs price had been researched through comparing different formulae to build PRDF, including absolute average month price of TCMs, month average price ratio of TCMs to foodstuff (rice) , month-on-month change of TCMs to rice, year-on-year change of TCMs to rice, and difference in value of period-on-period change (DVPPC). In the research, Cordyceps, Glycyrrhiza and totally five herbs were selected as model drugs and the price data were collected from 2002 to 2008. The results showed that DVPPC calculated of relative long time window was more sensitive and stable to reflect the relative alteration trend of TCMs price. For instance, the DVPPC of Ligustici showed continuously increase trend in recent years. This suggested appearance of unbalance between supply and demand of Ligustici, and forced policy intervention to maintain reasonable and continuable utilization of Ligustici resource. The proposed method and the formula of DVPPC revealed some useful guidance for dynamic monitoring the wild resources of TCMs.
21585310	To create a food list and develop a draft quantitative food frequency questionnaire (QFFQ) for Trinidad and Tobago. A mixed sampling method was used to obtain a representative sample and trained interviewers administered 24-h dietary recalls. Portion sizes were assessed and the most frequently reported foods were tabulated. Results are from 155 men and 169 women aged 21-64 years. The most frequently reported food items were: full-cream milk (64%), rice (61%), and sweetened fruit drinks (50%). Carbonated drinks were consumed by 28%. The most frequently consumed fruits were banana (23%) and citrus (22%); < 20% consumed a vegetable food item. The final QFFQ contains 146 items: 19 breads/cakes/cereals; seven rice/pastas/noodles; 12 dairy; 26 meats/poultry/fish/soy products; 15 fruits; 34 vegetables; six legumes; 11 other; 12 drinks; four alcoholic drinks. A list of commonly consumed foods in Trinidad and Tobago was obtained and a draft QFFQ was prepared.
2158534	Adult male rats were fed a purified diet containing rice bran or wheat bran with or without a marine fish oil to investigate the possible effects of such dietary combinations on lipid metabolism. Plasma and hepatic triacylglycerols and hepatic lipogenesis were lowered significantly by feeding fish oil with rice bran but not with wheat bran. Plasma cholesterol and hepatic cholesterol synthesis were significantly lower in animals fed fish oil with either bran. Liver microsomal free cholesterol was significantly lower in rats fed rice bran alone than in all other groups. Hepatic low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor activity was significantly higher in the two groups fed rice bran than in the two groups fed wheat bran. Fish oil significantly decreased hepatic LDL receptor activity and increased hepatic high density lipoprotein (HDL) binding activity with wheat bran but had no significant effects on these parameters when added to the rice bran diet. However, when the data for all groups were pooled, there was a significant negative correlation between hepatic HDL binding activity and LDL receptor activity. Cecal volatile fatty acids were significantly higher in rats fed rice bran, were unaffected by adding fish oil to either bran diet and did not appear to mediate any of the effects of the brans and fish oil on plasma lipids and hepatic lipid metabolism. The combination of rice bran plus fish oil therefore appears to have more beneficial effects on lipid metabolism than wheat bran plus fish oil.
21585388	The Arabidopsis protein SENSITIVE TO FREEZING-6 (AtSFR6) is required for cold- and drought-inducible expression of COLD-ON REGULATED (COR) genes and, as a consequence, AtSFR6 is essential for osmotic stress and freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis. Therefore, orthologues of AtSFR6 in crop species represent important candidate targets for future manipulation of stress tolerance. We identified and cloned a homologue of AtSFR6 from rice (Oryza sativa), OsSFR6, and confirmed its orthology in Arabidopsis. OsSFR6 was identified by homology searches, and a full-length coding region isolated using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) from Oryza sativa cDNA. To test for orthology, OsSFR6 was expressed in an Arabidopsis sfr6 loss-of-function mutant background, and restoration of wild-type phenotypes was assessed. Searching the rice genome revealed a single homologue of AtSFR6. Cloning and sequencing the OsSFR6 coding region showed OsSFR6 to have 61.7% identity and 71.1% similarity to AtSFR6 at the predicted protein sequence level. Expression of OsSFR6 in the atsfr6 mutant background restored the wild-type visible phenotype, as well as restoring wild-type levels of COR gene expression and tolerance of osmotic and freezing stresses. OsSFR6 is an orthologue of AtSFR6, and thus a target for future manipulation to improve tolerance to osmotic and other abiotic stresses.
21585570	In the present study, we investigated the function of the heterotrimeric G protein β-subunit (Gβ) gene (RGB1) in rice. RGB1 knock-down lines were generated in the wild type and d1-5, a mutant deficient for the heterotrimeric G protein α-subunit (Gα) gene (RGA1). Both transgenic lines showed browning of the lamina joint regions and nodes that could be attributed to a reduction of RGB1 function, as the abnormality was not observed in d1-5. The RGB1 knock-down lines generated in d1-5 were shorter, suggesting RGB1 to be a positive regulator of cellular proliferation, in addition to RGA1. The number of sterile seeds also increased in both RGB1 knock-down lines. These results suggest that Gβγ and Gα cooperatively function in cellular proliferation and seed fertility. We discuss the potential predominant role of RGB1 in G protein signaling in rice.
21585836	The availability of complete, annotated genomic sequence information in model organisms is a rich resource that can be extended to understudied orphan crops through comparative genomic approaches. We report here a software tool (cisprimertool) for the identification of conserved intron scanning regions using expressed sequence tag alignments to a completely sequenced model crop genome. The method used is based on earlier studies reporting the assessment of conserved intron scanning primers (called CISP) within relatively conserved exons located near exon-intron boundaries from onion, banana, sorghum and pearl millet alignments with rice. The tool is freely available to academic users at http://www.icrisat.org/gt-bt/CISPTool.htm.
21585871	Ten polymorphic microsatellite loci were isolated and characterized from the rice- and maize-infecting Basidiomycete fungus Rhizoctonia solani anastomosis group AG-1 IA. All loci were polymorphic in two populations from Louisiana in USA and Venezuela. The total number of alleles per locus ranged from four to eight. All 10 loci were also useful for genotyping soybean-infecting R. solani AG-1 isolates from Brazil and USA. One locus, TC06, amplified across two other AG groups representing different species, showing species-specific repeat length polymorphism. This marker suite will be used to determine the global population structure of this important pathogenic fungus.
21585872	Nine polymorphic microsatellite DNA markers from the sorghum plant bug, Stenotus rubrovittatus, were isolated and characterized. These markers were used to analyse 22 individuals from a single field population. The number of alleles at these nine loci ranged from two to 28 (mean = 11.4) and heterozygosity ranged from 0.27 to 0.86 (mean = 0.58). Stenotus rubrovittatus has shown rapid population growth in the decades since the first report in the 1980s of serious damage to a rice crop. These microsatellite markers will be of value for studying both the population genetics and population dynamics of S. rubrovittatus.
21586078	The rodent Oligoryzomys longicaudatus or long-tailed pygmy rice rat is the reservoir of the aetiological agent of the hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in southern Argentina and Chile. We characterize 11 polymorphic microsatellite loci which would be useful for studies on microgeographical population structure in the species. Amplification of these loci in 42 individuals from four natural populations revealed four to 21 alleles per locus, and values of observed heterozygosities ranging from 0.371 to 0.896. Cross-species amplifications showed that some of the primers designed may be useful for other species of the genus Oligoryzomys.
21586387	Rice is the most important food crops in maintaining food security in China. The loss of China's annual rice production caused by pests is over ten million tons. Present studies showed that the transgenic insect-resistant rice can substantially reduce the application amount of chemical pesticides. In the case of no pesticide use, the pest density in transgenic rice field is significantly lower than that in non-transgenic field, and the neutral insects and natural enemies of pests increased significantly, indicating that the ecological environment and biodiversity toward the positive direction. The gene flow frequency from transgenic rice is dramatically reduced with the distance increases, reaching less than 0.01% at the distance of 6.2 m. Application of transgenic insect-resistant rice in China has an important significance for ensuring food security, maintaining sustainable agricultural development, and protecting the ecological environment and biodiversity. This review summarized the research progress in transgenic insect-resistant rice and its effect on biodiversity. The research directions and development trends of crop pest controlling in future are discussed. These help to promote better use of transgenic insect-resistant rice.
21586431	Nodulin-26-like intrinsic proteins (NIPs) of the aquaporin family are involved in the transport of diverse solutes, but the mechanisms controlling the selectivity of transport substrates are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to investigate how the aromatic/arginine (ar/R) selectivity filter influences the substrate selectivity of two NIP aquaporins; the silicic acid (Si) transporter OsLsi1 (OsNIP2;1) from rice and the boric acid (B) transporter AtNIP5;1 from Arabidopsis; both proteins are also permeable to arsenite. Native and site-directed mutagenized variants of the two genes were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and the transport activities for Si, B, arsenite, and water were assayed. Substitution of the amino acid at the ar/R second helix (H2) position of OsLsi1 did not affect the transport activities for Si, B, and arsenite, but that at the H5 position resulted in a total loss of Si and B transport activities and a partial loss of arsenite transport activity. Conversely, changes of the AtNIP5;1 ar/R selectivity filter and the NPA motifs to the OsLsi1 type did not result in a gain of Si transport activity. B transport activity was partially lost in the H5 mutant but unaffected in the H2 mutant of AtNIP5;1. In contrast, both the single and double mutations at the H2 and/or H5 positions of AtNIP5;1 did not affect arsenite transport activity. The results reveal that the residue at the H5 position of the ar/R filter of both OsLsi1 and AtNIP5;1 plays a key role in the permeability to Si and B, but there is a relatively low selectivity for arsenite.
21589895	The molecular mechanisms of plant recognition, colonization, and nutrient exchange between diazotrophic endophytes and plants are scarcely known. Herbaspirillum seropedicae is an endophytic bacterium capable of colonizing intercellular spaces of grasses such as rice and sugar cane. The genome of H. seropedicae strain SmR1 was sequenced and annotated by The Paraná State Genome Programme--GENOPAR. The genome is composed of a circular chromosome of 5,513,887 bp and contains a total of 4,804 genes. The genome sequence revealed that H. seropedicae is a highly versatile microorganism with capacity to metabolize a wide range of carbon and nitrogen sources and with possession of four distinct terminal oxidases. The genome contains a multitude of protein secretion systems, including type I, type II, type III, type V, and type VI secretion systems, and type IV pili, suggesting a high potential to interact with host plants. H. seropedicae is able to synthesize indole acetic acid as reflected by the four IAA biosynthetic pathways present. A gene coding for ACC deaminase, which may be involved in modulating the associated plant ethylene-signaling pathway, is also present. Genes for hemagglutinins/hemolysins/adhesins were found and may play a role in plant cell surface adhesion. These features may endow H. seropedicae with the ability to establish an endophytic life-style in a large number of plant species.
21590416	To attempt to gain an understanding of the molecular underpinnings of disease, many researchers have turned to expression profiling of genes during various stages of host recognition, entry, invasive growth, and host responses. While these studies have proven valuable, a deeper level of knowledge of the control circuitry affecting observed gene expression profiles can lead to a better understanding of the host pathogen interaction. Transcription factors are key switches in signal transduction circuits regulating gene expression. One powerful method to define target sequence specificity for this important group of transcription regulators is chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) with microarray chips (chip), commonly called ChIP-chip. A more recent variation of this technique is ChIP-seq where DNA sequencing replaces the microarray chip. Here, we describe how we elucidated the binding sites for the Magnaporthe oryzae Ca(2+)/calcineurin-dependent transcription factor MoCRZ1 with the ChIP-chip approach.
21590420	Deep transcriptome profiling of pathogen-infected tissues enhances the understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying host-pathogen interactions. Illumina's next generation sequencing technology sequencing-by-synthesis (SBS) is a powerful tool to rapidly sequence genomes and transcriptomes at an affordable rate. We modified the procedure for SBS library construction to significantly increase the efficiency of library construction. Using our improved method, two Sclerotinia homoeocarpa libraries were constructed from mycelia grown in potato dextrose broth (PDB) or potato dextrose agar (PDA) for 96 h, respectively, and two creeping bentgrass libraries were constructed from leaves 96 h after inoculation with S. homoeocarpa or water sprayed, respectively. About 4-7 million mRNA signatures were sequenced from each library. Sequence analysis using BLAST was performed against sequenced fungal genomes and rice genomic sequence to identify the expressed genes in both S. homoeocarpa mycelia and creeping bentgrass. Bioinformatic analysis identified many expressed genes in the pathogen and host. A public database to access the sequence data was developed at http://www.dstidb.org . Our results demonstrate how SBS technology can unravel transcriptome complexity during the creeping bentgrass-S. homoeocarpa interaction.
21590668	Opisthorchis viverrini infection is associated with human cholangiocarcinoma and northeast Thailand has the highest incidence of this disease in the world. Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos is the major freshwater snail intermediate host of O. viverrini in this area and an analysis based on geographical information systems was used to determine the effect of variation in soil surface salt on the density and distribution of this snail. A malacological survey was carried out in 56 water bodies in the Khorat basin, northeast Thailand at locations with various soil surface salt levels. Mollusk samples were collected from 10 ecologically representative water body sites with 10-20 sampling stations in each. The shoreline of clear, shallow water bodies was found to be the preferred B. s. goniomphalos habitat. The snails were exclusively found in water with salinity levels ranging between 0.05 and 22.11 parts per thousand (ppt), which supports the notion that B. s. goniomphalos prefers water with some saline content over pure, freshwater. The highest snail population densities were in rice fields, ponds, road-side ditches and canals within a water salinity range of 2.5-5.0 ppt. However, the presence of B. s. goniomphalos was negatively correlated with water salinity (P ≤0.05), both with regard to density and distribution. The areas with the highest density of B. s. goniomphalos were those with less than 1% soil surface salt (potential index = 0.314), while the lowest densities were found in areas exceeding 50% soil surface salt (potential index = 0.015).
21590715	Paddy herbicides are a high-risk concern for aquatic plants, including algae, because they easily flow out from paddy fields into rivers, with toxic effects. The effect on algal population dynamics, including population recovery after timed exposure, must be assessed. Therefore, we demonstrated concentration-response relationships of four paddy herbicides for algal growth inhibition and mortality, and the relationship between the effect on algal cell viability and population recovery following exposure. We used SYTOX Green dye assay and flow cytometry to assess cell viability of the alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata. Live cells could be clearly distinguished from dead cells during herbicide exposure. Our results showed that pretilachlor and quinoclamine had both algicidal and algistatic effects, whereas bensulfuron-methyl only had an algistatic effect, and pentoxazone only had an algicidal effect. Then, a population recovery test following a 72-h exposure was conducted. The algal population recovered in all tests, but the periods required for recovery differed among exposure concentrations and herbicides. The periods required for recovery were inconsistent with the dead cell ratio at the beginning of the recovery test; that is, population recovery could not be described only by cell viability. Consequently, the temporal effect of herbicides and subsequent recovery of the algal population could be described not only by the toxicity characteristics but also by toxicokinetics, such as rate of uptake, transport to the target site, and elimination of the substance from algal cells.
21591155	Rice University has created a team-taught interactive biology course for nonmajors with a focus on cutting edge biology in the news-advances in biotechnology, medicine, and science policy, along with the biological principles and methodology upon which these advances are based. The challenges inherent to teaching current topics were minimized by team-teaching the course, providing knowledgeable and enthusiastic lecturers for every topic while distributing the effort required to update material. Postdoctoral associates and advanced graduate students served as lecturers, providing an opportunity for them to develop their teaching skills and learn to communicate effectively with nonscientists on newsworthy topics related to their research. Laboratory tours, in-class demonstrations, and mock-ups helped lecturers convey surprisingly advanced ideas with students who lacked a strong theoretical or practical science background. A faculty member and co-coordinator administer the class, organize class activities, and mentor the speakers on teaching techniques and lecture design. Course design, lecture topics, hands-on activities, and approaches to successfully solve the difficulties inherent to team teaching are discussed. Course evaluations reflect student involvement in, and enjoyment of, the class.
21591772	The antioxidant activities of six Korean rice wine (KRW) concentrates were measured by 2, 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity and lipid/malonaldehyde (MA) assays. In the DPPH assay, the antioxidant activities of the KRW concentrates, including Maesilju (MSJ), Kookhwaju-1 (KHJ-1), Kookhwaju-2 (KHJ-2), Gugijaju (GGJ), Sasamju (SSJ), and Sogokju (SGJ), were 40%, 66%, 64%, 35%, 35%, and 63%, respectively. Furthermore, the concentrates inhibited the formation of MA from cod liver oil by 49%, 83%, 75%, 82%, 89%, and 90%, respectively, according to the lipid/MA assay. The sample wines were also analyzed for pH, titratable acidity, soluble solids (°Bx), and reducing sugars. The antioxidant activities of volatile extracts of the KRWs extracted by a solvent assisted flavor evaporation (SAFE) apparatus were evaluated by aldehyde/carboxylic acid assay. The volatile extracts of MSJ, KHJ-1, KHJ-2, GGJ, SSJ, and SGJ inhibited the oxidation of hexanal by 97%, 99%, 90%, 90%, 50%, and 51%, respectively. Among the nonvolatile extracts of KRWs, KHJ-2 showed the highest inhibitory effect on MA formation.
21592415	Genome sequencing of barley has been delayed due to its large genome size (ca. 5,000 Mbp). Among the fast sequencing systems, 454 liquid phase pyrosequencing provides the longest reads and is the most promising method for BAC clones. Here we report the results of pooled sequencing of BAC clones selected with ESTs genetically mapped to chromosome 3H. We sequenced pooled barley BAC clones using a 454 parallel genome sequencer. A PCR screening system based on primer sets derived from genetically mapped ESTs on chromosome 3H was used for clone selection in a BAC library developed from cultivar "Haruna Nijo". The DNA samples of 10 or 20 BAC clones were pooled and used for shotgun library development. The homology between contig sequences generated in each pooled library and mapped EST sequences was studied. The number of contigs assigned on chromosome 3H was 372. Their lengths ranged from 1,230 bp to 58,322 bp with an average 14,891 bp. Of these contigs, 240 showed homology and colinearity with the genome sequence of rice chromosome 1. A contig annotation browser supplemented with query search by unique sequence or genetic map position was developed. The identified contigs can be annotated with barley cDNAs and reference sequences on the browser. Homology analysis of these contigs with rice genes indicated that 1,239 rice genes can be assigned to barley contigs by the simple comparison of sequence lengths in both species. Of these genes, 492 are assigned to rice chromosome 1. We demonstrate the efficiency of sequencing gene rich regions from barley chromosome 3H, with special reference to syntenic relationships with rice chromosome 1.
21592786	NO formation during combustion of four typical kinds of straw (wheat straw, rice straw, cotton stalk and corn stalk) which belong to soft straw and hard straw was studied in a tubular quartz fixed bed reactor under conditions relevant to grate boiler combustion. Regarding the real situation in biomass fired power plants in China, NO formation from blended straw combustion was also investigated. Nitrogen transfer during blended straw pyrolysis was performed using a thermogravimetric analyzer (TGA) coupled with a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrometer. The results show that NO conversion for the four straws during combustion is distinctive. Over 70% fuel-N converts into NO for cotton stalk, while only 37% for wheat straw under the same condition. When wheat straw and cotton stalk were mixed, N-NO conversion increases. The limestone addition promotes NO emission during cotton stalk combustion. The presence of SO(2) in atmosphere suppresses NO formation from straw combustion.
21593600	Plants accumulate a great diversity of natural products, many of which confer protective effects against phytopathogenic attack. Earlier we had demonstrated that the leaf extracts of Zizyphus jujuba and Ipomoea carnea inhibit the in vitro mycelial growth of Rhizoctonia solani, and effectively reduce the incidence of sheath blight disease in rice. Here we demonstrate that foliar application of the aqueous leaf extracts of Z. jujuba and I. carnea followed by challenge inoculation with R. solani induces systemic resistance in rice as evident from significantly increased accumulation of pathogenesis-related proteins such as chitinase, β-1,3-glucanase and peroxidase, as well as defense-related compounds such as phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and phenolic substances. Thin layer chromatographic separation of secondary metabolites revealed presence of alkaloid and terpenoid compounds in the leaf extracts of Z. jujuba that exhibited toxicity against R. solani under in vitro condition. Thus, the enhanced sheath blight resistance in rice seedlings treated with leaf extracts of Z. jujuba or I. carnea can be attributed to the direct inhibitory effects of these leaf extracts as well as their ability to elicit systemic resistance against R. solani.
21594293	Rice is one of the most important staple foods in the world. The Cry2A gene was inserted into the rice genome to help the plant combat insects. As the unintended effects of the genetically modified (GM) organisms are the most important barriers to the promotion of GM organisms, we have carried out a useful exploration to establish a new in vivo evaluation model for genetically modified foods by metabonomics methods. In this study, the rats were fed for 90 days with the GM and NON-GM rice diets. The changes in metabolites of the urine were detected using (1)H-NMR. The metabonomics were analyzed to see whether the GM rice can induce the metabolite changes in the rats' urine when compared with the NON-GM rice group. The multivariate analysis and ANOVA were used to determine the differences and the significance of differences respectively, and eventually we concluded that these differences did not have a biological significance. The conclusion of the metabonomics was comparable with that from the traditional method. As a non-invasive and dynamic monitoring method, metabonomics will be a new way of assessing the food safety of GM foods.
21594748	GH3 amino acid conjugases have been identified in many plant and bacterial species. The evolution of GH3 genes in plant species is explored using the sequenced rosids Arabidopsis, papaya, poplar, and grape. Analysis of the sequenced non-rosid eudicots monkey flower and columbine, the monocots maize and rice, as well as spikemoss and moss is included to provide further insight into the origin of GH3 clades. Comparison of co-linear genes in regions surrounding GH3 genes between species helps reconstruct the evolutionary history of the family. Combining analysis of synteny with phylogenetics, gene expression and functional data redefines the Group III GH3 genes, of which AtGH3.12/PBS3, a regulator of stress-induced salicylic acid metabolism and plant defense, is a member. Contrary to previous reports that restrict PBS3 to Arabidopsis and its close relatives, PBS3 syntelogs are identified in poplar, grape, columbine, maize and rice suggesting descent from a common ancestral chromosome dating to before the eudicot/monocot split. In addition, the clade containing PBS3 has undergone a unique expansion in Arabidopsis, with expression patterns for these genes consistent with specialized and evolving stress-responsive functions.
21595035	Cereal embryos sustain severe water deficit at the final stage of seed maturation. The molecular mechanisms underlying the acquisition of desiccation tolerance in seed embryos are similar to those displayed during water deficit in vegetative tissues. The genetic variation among six rice genotypes adapted to diverse environmental conditions was analysed at the proteome level to get further clues on the mechanisms leading to water-stress tolerance. MS analysis allowed the identification of 28 proteins involved in stress tolerance (late embryogenesis abundant proteins), nutrient reservoir activity, among other proteins implicated in diverse cellular processes potentially related to the stress response (e.g., mitochondrial import translocase). Hierarchical clustering and multidimensional scaling analyses revealed a close relationship between the stress-sensitive genotypes, whereas the stress-tolerant varieties were more distantly related. Besides qualitative and significant quantitative changes in embryo proteins across the distinct varieties, we also found differences at post-translational level. The results indicated that late embryogenesis abundant Rab21 was more strongly phosphorylated in the embryos of the sensitive varieties than in the embryos of the tolerant ones. We propose that the differences found in the phosphorylation status of Rab21 are related to stress tolerance.
21595523	Soluble starch synthases (SSs) are major enzymes involved in starch biosynthesis in developing rice (Oryza sativa L.) endosperm. Despite extensive studies of SSs in various plant species including rice, the functional modes of action among multiple SS genes are still not clear. Here, we generated transgenic RNA interference (RNAi) repressed lines for seven of the eight members of the rice SS gene family and studied their effects on starch synthesis and grain formation. Consistent with their expression domains, RNAi repression of genes that encode isozymes SSI, SSIIa, and SSIIIa had strong effects on grain development, whereas no obvious phenotypic changes were observed in transgenic plants with the other SS genes being RNAi repressed, indicating functional redundancies among the genes. To study the potential functional interactions of SS genes, we generated SSIIa/SSIIIa double repression lines whose kernels displayed a chalky kernel appearance and had increased amylose levels, increased pasting temperatures, and decreased viscosities. The double mutation also reduced short (degree of polymerization (DP) 5-6) and long (DP 12-23) amylopectin chain contents in the grain and increased the medium long types (DP 7-11). The nonadditive nature of the double mutation line suggests that SSIIa and SSIIIa interact with each other during starch synthesis. Such interaction may be physical via starch phophorylase as indicated by our pair-wise yeast two-hybrid assays on major starch synthesis enzymes. Collectively, the data showed that SSIIa and SSIIIa play distinctive, but partially overlapping, roles during rice grain starch synthesis. The possibility of extensive redundancy or complementarity among SS isozymes is discussed.
21596509	Two Gram negative, facultatively anaerobic, halophilic, motile, slightly curved rod-shaped bacterial strains MSSRF60(T) and MSSRF64 were isolated from the roots of a mangrove-associated wild rice collected in the Pichavaram mangroves, India. These strains possess the key functional nitrogenase gene nifH. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA, recA, gapA, mreB, gyrB and pyrH, gene sequences revealed that strains MSSRF60(T) and MSSRF64 belong to the genus Vibrio, and had the highest sequence similarity with the type strains of Vibrio diazotrophicus LMG 7893(T) (99.7, 94.8, 98.5, 97.9, 94.0 and 90.7%, respectively), Vibrio areninigrae J74(T) (98.2, 87.5, 91.5, 88.9, 86.5 and 84.6% respectively) and Vibrio hispanicus LMG 13240(T) (97.8, 87.1, 91.7, 89.8, 84.1 and 81.9%, respectively). The fatty acid composition too confirmed the affiliation of strains MSSRF60(T) and MSSRF64 to the genus Vibrio. These strains can be differentiated from the most closely related Vibrio species by several phenotypic traits. The DNA G+C content of strain MSSRF60(T) was 41.8mol%. Based on phenotypic, chemotaxonomic, genotypic (multilocus sequence analysis using five genes and genomic fingerprinting using BOX-PCR) and DNA-DNA hybridization analyses, strains MSSRF60(T) and MSSRF64 represent a novel species of the genus Vibrio, for which the name Vibrio plantipsonsor sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is MSSRF60(T) (=DSM 21026(T)=LMG 24470(T)=CAIM 1392(T)).
21596539	Use of eco-friendly area specific salt tolerant bioinoculants is better alternatives to chemical fertilizer for sustainable agriculture in coastal saline soils. We isolated diverse groups of diazotrophic bacteria from coastal saline soils of different forest and agricultural lands in the Sundarbans, West Bengal, India, to study their effect on crop productivity in saline soils. Phenotypic, biochemical and molecular identifications of the isolates were performed. The isolates produced indole acetic acid, phosphatase, and solubilized insoluble phosphates. Sequence analysis of 16S rDNA identified the SUND_BDU1 strain as Agrobacterium and the strains SUND_LM2, Can4 and Can6 belonging to the genus Bacillus. The ARA activity, dinitrogen fixation and presence of nifH genes indicated they were diazotrophs. Field trials with these strains as bioinoculants were carried out during 2007-2009, with rice during August-December followed by Lady's finger during April-June. Microplots, amended with FYM inoculated with four bioinoculants individually were compared against sole FYM (5 t ha(-1)) and a sole chemical fertilizer (60:30:30 kg ha(-1) NPK) treated plot. The strain Can6 was by far the best performer in respect of yield attributes and productivity of studied crops.
21596949	Leaf rolling is considered an important agronomic trait in rice (Oryza sativa) breeding. To understand the molecular mechanism controlling leaf rolling, we screened a rice T-DNA insertion population and isolated the outcurved leaf1 (oul1) mutant showing abaxial leaf rolling. The phenotypes were caused by knockout of Rice outermost cell-specific gene5 (Roc5), an ortholog of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) homeodomain leucine zipper class IV gene GLABRA2. Interestingly, overexpression of Roc5 led to adaxially rolled leaves, whereas cosuppression of Roc5 resulted in abaxial leaf rolling. Bulliform cell number and size increased in oul1 and Roc5 cosuppression plants but were reduced in Roc5-overexpressing lines. The data indicate that Roc5 negatively regulates bulliform cell fate and development. Gene expression profiling, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and RNA interference (RNAi) analyses revealed that Protodermal Factor Like (PFL) was probably down-regulated in oul1. The mRNA level of PFL was increased in Roc5-overexpressing lines, and PFL-RNAi transgenic plants exhibit reversely rolling leaves by reason of increases of bulliform cell number and size, indicating that Roc5 may have a conserved function. These are, to our knowledge, the first functional data for a gene encoding a homeodomain leucine zipper class IV transcriptional factor in rice that modulates leaf rolling.
21597054	Negative impacts on the environment, bird well-being, and farm worker health indicate the need for abatement strategies for poultry litter NH(3) generation. Type of bedding affects many parameters related to poultry production including NH(3) losses. In a randomized complete block design, 3 trials compared the cumulative NH(3) volatilization for laboratory-prepared litter (4 bedding types mixed with excreta) and commercial litter (sampled from a broiler house during the second flock on reused pine wood chips). Litters were assessed at the original moisture content and 2 higher moisture contents. Broiler excrement was mixed with pine wood shavings, rice hulls, sand, and vermiculite to create litter samples. Volumetrically uniform litter samples were placed in chambers receiving humidified air where the exhaust passed through H(3)BO(3) solution, trapping litter-emitted NH(3). At the original moisture content, sand and vermiculite litters generated the most NH(3) (5.3 and 9.1 mg of N, respectively) whereas wood shavings, commercial, and rice hull litters emitted the least NH(3) (0.9-2.6 mg of N). For reducing NH(3) emissions, the results support recommendations for using wood shavings and rice hulls, already popular bedding choices in the United States and worldwide. In this research, the organic bedding materials generated the least NH(3) at the original moisture content when compared with the inorganic materials. For each bedding type, incremental increases in litter moisture content increased NH(3) volatilization. However, the effects of bedding material on NH(3) volatilization at the increased moisture levels were not clearly differentiated across the treatments. Vermiculite generated the most NH(3) (26.3 mg of N) at the highest moisture content. Vermiculite was a novel bedding choice that has a high water absorption capacity, but because of high NH(3) generation, it is not recommended for further study as broiler bedding material. Controlling unnecessary moisture inputs to broiler litter is a key to controlling NH(3) emissions.
21597240	This study aimed to characterize soil fungal communities in upland rice fields managed with tillage/non-tillage and winter cover-cropping (hairy vetch and cereal rye) practices, using PCR-based molecular methods. The study plots were maintained as upland fields for 5 years and the soils sampled in the second and fifth years were analyzed using T-RFLP (terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism) profiling and clone libraries with the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and domain 1 (D1) of the fungal large-subunit (fLSU) rRNA (D1(fLSU)) as the target DNA sequence. From the 2nd-year-sample, 372 cloned sequences of fungal ITS-D1(fLSU) were obtained and clustered into 80 nonredundant fungal OTUs (operational taxonomic units) in 4 fungal phyla. The T-RFLP profiling was performed with the 2nd- and 5th-year-samples and the major T-RFs (terminal restriction fragments) were identified using a theoretical fragment analysis of the ITS-D1(fLSU) clones. These molecular analyses showed that the fungal community was influenced more strongly by the cover-cropping than tillage practices. Moreover, the non-tilled, cover-cropped soil was characterized by a predominance of Cryptococcus sp. in the phylum Basidiomycota. We provided a genetic database of the fungal ITS-D1(fLSU)s in the differently managed soils of upland rice fields.
21598083	Trehalose-6-phosphate (T6P), an intermediate in the trehalose biosynthesis pathway, is emerging as an important regulator of plant metabolism and development. T6P levels are potentially modulated by a group of trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (TPS) and trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase (TPP) homologues. In this study, we have isolated 11 TPS genes encoding proteins with both TPS and TPP domains, from rice. Functional complement assays performed in yeast tps1 and tps2 mutants, revealed that only OsTPS1 encodes an active TPS enzyme and no OsTPS protein possesses TPP activity. By using a yeast two-hybrid analysis, a complicated interaction network occurred among OsTPS proteins, and the TPS domain might be essential for this interaction to occur. The interaction between OsTPS1 and OsTPS8 in vivo was confirmed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation and coimmunoprecipitation assays. Furthermore, our gel filtration assay showed that there may exist two forms of OsTPS1 (OsTPS1a and OsTPS1b) with different elution profiles in rice. OsTPS1b was particularly cofractionated with OsTPS5 and OsTPS8 in the 360 kDa complex, while OsTPS1a was predominantly incorporated into the complexes larger than 360 kDa. Collectively, these results suggest that OsTPS family members may form trehalose-6-phosphate synthase complexes and therefore potentially modify T6P levels to regulate plant development.
21598135	The objective of this study was to determine the distribution of an economically important class of mycotoxins, the aflatoxins, in rice milling fractions. Rice plants grown under field production conditions are frequently infected with types of pathogenic fungi that produce toxic metabolites (mycotoxins). Paddy (seeds) rice from healthy plants in the field was collected and stored on a farm under humid, poorly ventilated conditions. Samples were milled into four fractions (hulls, brown rice, bran and white rice) and analysed for aflatoxins (B(1), B(2), G(1) and G(2)) using a validated method. Rice fractions from healthy plants, which contained low levels of aflatoxins (less than 1 µg kg(-1)), were used to determine the efficiency of the extraction method. Seeds stored under poor conditions were found to be contaminated with aflatoxins B(1) and B(2) as were the fractions. The sums of AFB(1) and AFB(2) in stored paddy rice, hulls, brown rice, bran and white rice were 141, 39, 158, 367 and 56 µg kg(-1), respectively. The ratio of aflatoxin B(1) and B(2) was about 10 : 1. AFG(1) and AFG(2) were less than 1 µg kg(-1). Thus, brown rice contained 92.9% of the aflatoxins in paddy rice, whereas white rice contained only 27.9%.
21598624	To study the optimal conditions for roller cultivation of cold-adapted reassortant vaccine strain of influenza virus A/17/Duck/ Potsdam/86/92 (H5N2) in MDCK and Vero cell cultures grown on nutrient medium based on soy and rice flour hydrolysates obtained using trypsin and bromeline. Vaccine strain was cultivated on MDCK and Vero cells in rollers in the presence of plant proteases. Obtained culture samples of vaccine strains were lyophilized and their infectivity was assessed. Cultivation of vaccine strain on MDCK and Vero cells grown in experimental media containing reduced quantity (2 and 3% respectively) of fetal calf serum ("Gibco", USA) resulted in high titers of the virus in the presence of plant proteases (4 mcg/ml of papain and 20 mcg/ml bromeline). Use of plant enzymes and nutrient media based on enzymic plant hydrolysates, including those obtained with bromeline, for cultivation of vaccine strain on MDCK and Vero cell cultures in rollers could make the manufacturing process of live influenza vaccines safer and more cost effective.
21598771	The level of chromium (Cr) contamination in soils and irrigated mine wastewater at South Kaliapani chromite mine region of Orissa, (India) were investigated. Chromium bioaccumulation in rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. Khandagiri) irrigated with Cr+6 contaminated mine wastewater was analyzed along with its attenuation from mine wastewater. The levels of Cr+6 in irrigated mine wastewaters in successive rice grown plots were analyzed on 75 days and 100 days after transplantation of seedlings. Total chromium content in different parts of rice plants and soil samples from different plots was analyzed during harvesting stage (125 days after transplantation). Cr accumulation was significantly high in surface soils (0-20 cm) with a mean value of 11,170 mg kg(-1), but it decreased significantly after the crop harvest. About 70% to 90% reduction of Cr+6 levels was observed in irrigated mine wastewater when passed through successive rice plots. High bio-concentration of Cr in leaves with values ranging from 125-498 mg kg(-1) as compared to stem (25-400 mg kg(-1)) and grain (5-23 mg kg(-1)) was noticed. The reduction of Cr+6 levels is related to plant age, high biomass and area of water passage and was attributed to rhizofiltration technique.
21598885	This article presents a case of a painless fluctuant mass on the volar aspect of the wrist and forearm of an immunocompetent 45-year-old man with no history of significant underlying disease. This mass proved to be a chronic tenosynovitis associated with Mycobacterium kansasii infection. The patient, who had a history of multiple minor cuts and abrasions plus exposure to an aquatic environment, had a wide resection of the lesion and elective tenosynovectomy. Operative findings revealed a marked tenosynovitis of flexor tendons. Several rice bodies lesions were also observed along the course of the involved flexor tendons.Biopsy showed a granulomatous inflammatory reaction. Specimens of affected tissue were sent to a laboratory for solid (at 30°C and at 37°C) and liquid (at 37°C) mycobacterial culture. The initial Ziehl-Neelsen stain for acid-fast bacilli was positive. After 8 days of incubation, acid-fast bacilli were recovered. In accordance with the diagnosis of M kansasii tenosynovitis and the results of antibiotic susceptibility testing, triple therapy with rifampicin, isoniazid and clarithromycin was initiated. After 3 months of therapy, the patient experienced improvement in the swelling and is due to receive 12 months of antibiotic therapy. Despite awareness of atypical mycobacterial infections, diagnosis is frequently delayed, leading to increased morbidity. Patients with exposure to these atypical pathogens require a broadened differential to include appropriate testing and culture of specimens to obtain an accurate diagnosis.
21598911	The reactions of H(2)COO with HO(2) and the HO(2)···H(2)O complex are studied by employing the high-level quantum chemical calculations with B3LYP and CCSD(T) theoretical methods, the conventional transition-state theory (CTST), and the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) with Eckart tunneling correction. The calculated results show that the proton transfer plus the addition reaction channel (TS1A) is preferable for the reaction of H(2)COO with HO(2) because the barriers are -10.8 and 1.6 kcal/mol relative to the free reactants and the prereactive complex, respectively, at the CCSD(T)/6-311++G(3df,2p)//B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) level of theory. Furthermore, the rate constant via TS1A (2.23 × 10(-10) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1)) combined with the concentrations of the species in the atmosphere demonstrates that the HO(2) radical would be the dominant sink of H(2)COO in some areas, where the concentration of water is less than 10(17) molecules cm(-3). In addition, although the single water molecule would lower the activated barrier of TS1A from 1.0 to 0.1 kcal/mol with respect to the respective complexes, the rate constant is lower than that of the reaction of HO(2) with H(2)COO.
21598934	The instanton approach, as previously applied to proton tunneling in molecular systems, is adapted to carbon-hydrogen bond cleavage catalyzed by enzymes. To compensate for the complexity of enzymatic reactions, simplifications are introduced based on the observation in numerous X-ray measurements that enzymes tend to form compact structures, which is assumed to have led toward optimization of specific parameters that govern the tunneling rate in the instanton formalism. On this basis, semiempirical equations are derived that link observed kinetic data directly to these parameters. These equations provide an analytical relation between the kinetic isotope effect and its temperature dependence for each hydrogen isotope, from which mechanistic and structural information can be extracted, including the nature of the hydrogen acceptor, the magnitude of the hydrogen transfer distance, the presence of endothermicity, and the contribution and frequency of skeletal vibrations that assist the tunneling. The method is used to analyze kinetic data reported for eight enzymatic CH-cleavage reactions; the enzymes or models thereof studied include methylmalonyl-coenzyme A mutase (coenzyme B(12)), galactose oxidase, lipoxygenase-1 with six mutants, methylamine dehydrogenase, an oxoiron(IV)porphyrin radical cation, phenylalanine hydroxylase, a bis(μ-oxo)dicopper complex, and rice α-oxygenase.
21598935	Algorithms are presented for sampling quantum microcanonical ensembles for a potential energy minimum and for the conical intersection at the minimum energy crossing point of two coupled electronic states. These ensembles may be used to initialize trajectories for chemical dynamics simulations. The unimolecular dynamics of a microcanonical ensemble about a potential energy minimum may be compared with the dynamics predicted by quantum Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory. If the dynamics is non-RRKM, it will be of particular interest to determine which states have particularly long lifetimes. Initializing a microcanonical ensemble for the electronically excited state at a conical intersection is a model for electronic nonadiabatic dynamics. The trajectory surface-hopping approach may be used to study the ensuing chemical dynamics. A strength of the model is that zero-point energy conditions are included for the initial nonadiabatic dynamics at the conical intersection.
21598968	The kinetics and mechanisms of the self-reaction of allyl radicals and the cross-reaction between allyl and propargyl radicals were studied both experimentally and theoretically. The experiments were carried out over the temperature range 295-800 K and the pressure range 20-200 Torr (maintained by He or N(2)). The allyl and propargyl radicals were generated by the pulsed laser photolysis of respective precursors, 1,5-hexadiene and propargyl chloride, and were probed by using a cavity ring-down spectroscopy technique. The temperature-dependent absorption cross sections of the radicals were measured relative to that of the HCO radical. The rate constants have been determined to be k(C(3)H(5) + C(3)H(5)) = 1.40 × 10(-8)T(-0.933) exp(-225/T) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) (Δ log(10)k = ± 0.088) and k(C(3)H(5) + C(3)H(3)) = 1.71 × 10(-7)T(-1.182) exp(-255/T) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) (Δ log(10)k = ± 0.069) with 2σ uncertainty limits. The potential energy surfaces for both reactions were calculated with the CBS-QB3 and CASPT2 quantum chemical methods, and the product channels have been investigated by the steady-state master equation analyses based on the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory. The results indicated that the reaction between allyl and propargyl radicals produces five-membered ring compounds in combustion conditions, while the formations of the cyclic species are unlikely in the self-reaction of allyl radicals. The temperature- and pressure-dependent rate constant expressions for the important reaction pathways are presented for kinetic modeling.
21600393	Many rice breeding programs have currently reached yield plateaus as a result of limited genetic variability in parental strains. Dongxiang common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) is the progenitor of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) and serves as an important gene pool for the genetic improvement of rice cultivars. In this study, heterotic loci (HLs) associated with six yield-related traits were identified in wild and cultivated rice and investigated using a set of 265 introgression lines (ILs) of O. rufipogon Griff. in the background of the Indica high-yielding cultivar Guichao 2 (O. sativa L.). Forty-two HLs were detected by a single point analysis of mid-parent heterosis values from test cross F(1) offspring, and 30 (71.5%) of these HLs showed significantly positive effects, consistent with the superiority shown by the F(1) test cross population in the six yield-related traits under study. Genetic mapping of hsp11, a locus responsible for the number of spikelets per panicle, confirmed the utility of these HLs. The results indicate that favorable HLs capable of improving agronomic traits are available. The identification of HLs between wild rice and cultivated rice could lead to a new strategy for the application of heterosis in rice breeding.
21600998	Rice blast, caused by the pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae, is a serious hindrance to rice production and has emerged as an important model for the characterization of molecular mechanisms relevant to pathogenic development in plants. Similar to other pathogenic fungi, conidiation plays a central role in initiation of M.oryzae infection and spread over a large area. However, relatively little is known regarding the molecular mechanisms that underlie conidiation in M. oryzae. To better characterize these mechanisms, we identified a conidiation-defective mutant, ATMT0225B6 (MoCDC15(T-DNA)), in which a T-DNA insertion disrupted a gene that encodes a homolog of fission yeast cdc15, and generated a second strain containing a disruption in the same allele (ΔMoCDC15(T-DNA)). The cdc15 gene has been shown to act as a coordinator of the cell cycle in yeast. Functional analysis of the MoCDC15(T-DNA) and ΔMoCDC15(T-DNA) mutants revealed that MoCDC15 is required for conidiation, preinfection development and pathogenicity in M. oryzae. Conidia from these mutants were viable, but failed to adhere to hydrophobic surface, a crucial step required for subsequent pathogenic development. All phenotypic defects observed in mutants were rescued in a strain complemented with wild type MoCDC15. Together, these data indicate that MoCDC15 functions as a coordinator of several biological processes important for pathogenic development in M. oryzae.
21601359	Rice is an important source of essential elements. However, rice may also contain toxic elements such as arsenic. Therefore, in the present study, the concentration of total arsenic and five main chemical species of arsenic (As(3+), As(5+), DMA, MMA and AsB) were evaluated in 44 different rice samples (white, parboiled white, brown, parboiled brown, parboiled organic and organic white) from different Brazilian regions using high-performance liquid chromatography hyphenated to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HPLC-ICP-MS). The mean level of total arsenic was 222.8 ng g(-1) and the daily intake of inorganic arsenic (the most toxic form) from rice consumption was estimated as 10% of the Provisional Tolerable Daily Intake (PTDI) with a daily ingestion of 88 g of rice. Inorganic arsenic (As(3+), As(5+)) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) are the predominant forms in all samples. The percentages of species were 38.7; 39.7; 3.7 and 17.8% for DMA, As(3+), MMA and As(5+), respectively. Moreover, rice samples harvested in the state of Rio Grande do Sul presented more fractions of inorganic arsenic than rice in Minas Gerais or Goiás, which could lead to different risks of arsenic exposure.
21601944	We examined rice responses to a rare sugar, d-psicose. Rice growth was inhibited by d-psicose but not by common sugars. Microarray analysis revealed that d-psicose treatment caused an upregulation of many defense-related genes in rice, and dose-dependent upregulation of these genes was confirmed by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. The level of upregulation of defense-related genes by d-psicose was low compared with that by d-allose, which is another rare sugar known to confer induction of resistance to rice bacterial blight in rice. Treatment with d-psicose conferred resistance to bacterial blight in rice in a dose-dependent manner, and the results indicate that d-psicose might be a candidate plant activator for reducing disease development in rice.
21602092	Advances in studies of rice innate immunity have led to the identification and characterization of host sensors encoding receptor kinases that perceive conserved microbial signatures. Receptor kinases that carry the non-orginine-aspartate domain, are highly expanded in rice (Oryza sativa) compared with Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Researchers have also identified a diverse array of microbial effectors from bacterial and fungal pathogens that triggers immune responses upon perception. These include effectors that indirectly target host Nucleotide binding site/Leucine rich repeat proteins and transcription activator-like effectors that directly bind promoters of host genes. Here we review the recognition and signaling events that govern rice innate immunity.
21602276	Iron deficiency is one of the major agricultural problems, as 30% of the arable land of the world is too alkaline for optimal crop production, rendering plants short of available iron despite its abundance. To take up apoplasmic precipitated iron, plants secrete phenolics such as protocatechuic acid (PCA) and caffeic acid. The molecular pathways and genes of iron uptake strategies are already characterized, whereas the molecular mechanisms of phenolics synthesis and secretion have not been clarified, and no phenolics efflux transporters have been identified in plants yet. Here we describe the identification of a phenolics efflux transporter in rice. We identified a cadmium-accumulating rice mutant in which the amount of PCA and caffeic acid in the xylem sap was dramatically reduced and hence named it phenolics efflux zero 1 (pez1). PEZ1 localized to the plasma membrane and transported PCA when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. PEZ1 localized mainly in the stele of roots. In the roots of pez1, precipitated apoplasmic iron increased. The growth of PEZ1 overexpression lines was severely restricted, and these lines accumulated more iron as a result of the high solubilization of precipitated apoplasmic iron in the stele. We show that PEZ1 is responsible for an increase of PCA concentration in the xylem sap and is essential for the utilization of apoplasmic precipitated iron in the stele.
21602323	The major quantitative trait locus (QTL) Phosphorus uptake1 (Pup1) confers tolerance of phosphorus deficiency in soil and is currently one of the most promising QTLs for the development of tolerant rice (Oryza sativa) varieties. To facilitate targeted introgression of Pup1 into intolerant varieties, the gene models predicted in the Pup1 region in the donor variety Kasalath were used to develop gene-based molecular markers that are evenly distributed over the fine-mapped 278-kb QTL region. To validate the gene models and optimize the markers, gene expression analyses and partial allelic sequencing were conducted. The markers were tested in more than 80 diverse rice accessions revealing three main groups with different Pup1 allele constitution. Accessions with tolerant (group I) and intolerant (group III) Pup1 alleles were distinguished from genotypes with Kasalath alleles at some of the analyzed loci (partial Pup1; group II). A germplasm survey additionally confirmed earlier data showing that Pup1 is largely absent from irrigated rice varieties but conserved in varieties and breeding lines adapted to drought-prone environments. A core set of Pup1 markers has been defined, and sequence polymorphisms suitable for single-nucleotide polymorphism marker development for high-throughput genotyping were identified. Following a marker-assisted backcrossing approach, Pup1 was introgressed into two irrigated rice varieties and three Indonesian upland varieties. First phenotypic evaluations of the introgression lines suggest that Pup1 is effective in different genetic backgrounds and environments and that it has the potential to significantly enhance grain yield under field conditions.
21603975	Light signal transduction was studied in extracts of mycelia of the fungus Neurospora crassa, and the third internodes of dark-grown Pisum sativum cv Alaska. Both processes increased the phosphorylation of nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDPK). NDPK may function as a carrier of reduction equivalents, as it binds NADH, thereby providing electrons to transform singlet oxygen to superoxide by catalases (CAT). As the C-termini of NDPK interact with CAT which receive singlet oxygen, emitted from photoreceptors post light perception (which is transmitted to ambient triplet oxygen), we hypothesize that this may increase phospho-NDPK. Singlet oxygen, emitted from the photoreceptor, also reacts with unsaturated fatty acids in membranes thereby forming malonedialdehyde, which in turn could release ions from, e.g., the thylacoid membrane thereby reducing the rate of photosynthesis. A mutant of Alaska pea, which exhibited two mutations in chloroplast NDPK-2 and one mutation in mitochondrial localized NDPK-3, was resistant to reactive oxygen species including singlet oxygen and showed an increase in the production of carotenoids, anthocyanine, and thereby could reduce the concentration of singlet oxygen. The reduction of the concentration of singlet oxygen is predicted to increase the yield of crop plants, such as Alaska pea, soybean, rice, wheat, barley, and sugarcane. This approach to increase the yield of crop plants may contribute not only to enhance food supply, but also to reduce the concentration of CO(2) in the atmosphere.
21604025	Tocotrienols are a class of vitamin E which modulates several mechanisms associated with cardioprotection, anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, and neuroprotection. Unlike other Vitamin E-like compounds, tocotrienols possess inimitable properties. Quite a lot of studies have determined the cardioprotective abilities of tocotrienols and have been shown to possess novel hypocholesterolemic effects together with an ability to reduce the atherogenic apolipoprotein and lipoprotein plasma levels. In addition, tocotrienol has been suggested to have an antioxidant, anti-thrombotic, and anti-tumor effect indicating that tocotrienol may serve as an effective agent in the prevention and/or treatment of cardiovascular disease and cancer. The bioactivity exhibited is due to the structural characteristics of tocotrienols. Rich sources of tocotrienols which include rice bran, palm oil, and other edible oils exhibit protective effect against cardiovascular disorders. The conclusions drawn from the early literature that vitamin E group of compounds provides an inevitable role in cardioprotection is sustained in many more recent studies.
21605340	In rice, one detrimental factor influencing single panicle yield is the frequent occurrence of panicle apical abortion (PAA) under unfavorable climatic conditions. Until now, no detailed genetic information has been available to avoid PAA in rice breeding. Here, we show that the occurrence of PAA is associated with the accumulation of excess hydrogen peroxide. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) mapping for PAA in an F(2) population derived from the cross of L-05261 (PAA line) × IRAT129 (non-PAA variety) identified seven QTLs over a logarithm of the odd (LOD) threshold of 2.5, explaining approximately 50.1% of phenotypic variance for PAA in total. Five of the QTLs with an increased effect from L-05261, were designated as qPAA3-1, qPAA3-2, qPAA4, qPAA5 and qPAA8, and accounted for 6.8%, 5.9%, 4.2%, 13.0% and 12.2% of phenotypic variance, respectively. We found that the PAA in the early heading plants was mainly controlled by qPAA8. Subsequently, using the sub-populations specific for qPAA8 based on marker-assisted selection, we further narrowed qPAA8 to a 37.6-kb interval delimited by markers RM22475 and 8-In112. These results are beneficial for PAA gene clone.
21605341	A rice spotted-leaf mutant was isolated from an ethane methyl sulfonate (EMS) -induced IR64 mutant bank. The mutant, designated as spl30 (spotted-leaf30), displayed normal green leaf color under shade but exhibited red-brown lesions under natural summer field conditions. Initiation of the lesions was induced by light and the symptom was enhanced at 33 (°) C relative to 26 (°) C. Histochemical staining did not show cell death around the red-brown lesions. Chlorophyll contents in the mutant were significantly lower than those of the wild type while the ratio of chlorophyll a/b remained the same, indicating that spl30 was impaired in biosynthesis or degradation of chlorophyll. Disease reaction patterns of the mutant to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae were largely unchanged to most races tested except for a few strains. Genetic analysis showed that the mutation was controlled by a single recessive gene, tentatively named spl30(t), which co-segregated with RM15380 on chromosome 3, and was delimited to a 94 kb region between RM15380 and RM15383. Spl30(t) is likely a novel rice spotted-leaf gene since no other similar genes have been identified near the chromosomal region. The genetic data and recombination populations provided in this study will enable further fine-mapping and cloning of the gene.
21605393	Rice is commonly known as a staple crop consumed worldwide, though with several rice proteins being reported for allergic properties in clinical studies. Thus, there is a growing need for the development of an animal model to better understand the allergenicity of rice proteins and the immunological and pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the development of food allergy. Groups of BALB/c mice were sensitized daily with freshly homogenized rice flour (30 mg or 80 mg) without adjuvant by intragastric gavage. In addition, the mice were challenged with extracted rice flour proteins at several time points intragastrically. Hypersensitivity symptoms in mice were evaluated according to a scoring system. Vascular leakage, ELISA of rice protein-specific IgE, histopathology of small intestine, and passive cutaneous anaphylaxis were conducted on challenged mice. An adjuvant free mouse model of rice allergy was established with sensitized mice showing increased scratching behaviors and increased vascular permeability. Rice protein-specific IgE was detected after eighteen days of sensitization and from the fifth challenge onwards. Inflammatory damage to the epithelium in the small intestine of mice was observed beyond one month of sensitization. Passive cutaneous anaphylaxis results confirmed the positive rice allergy in the mouse model. We introduced a BALB/c mouse model of rice allergy with simple oral sensitization without the use of adjuvant. This model would serve as a useful tool for further analysis on the immunopathogenic mechanisms of the various rice allergens, for the evaluation of the hypersensitivity of rice or other cereal grains, and to serve as a platform for the development of immunotherapies against rice allergens.
21606105
21606318	The successful transmission of chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis relies on the establishment and subsequent release of cohesion between replicated chromatids. Cohesion is mediated by a four-subunit structural maintenance of chromosome complex, called cohesins. REC8 is a key component of this meiotic cohesion complex in most model organisms studied to date. Here, we isolated and dissected the functions of OsREC8, a rice (Oryza sativa) REC8 homolog, using two null Osrec8 mutants. We showed that OsREC8 encodes a protein that localized to meiotic chromosomes from approximately meiotic interphase to metaphase I. Homologous pairing and telomere bouquet formation were abnormal in Osrec8 meiocytes. Furthermore, fluorescent in situ hybridization experiments on Osrec8 meiocytes demonstrated that the mutation eliminated meiotic centromeric cohesion completely during prophase I and also led to the bipolar orientation of the kinetochores during the first meiotic division and accordingly resulted in premature separation of sister chromatid during meiosis I. Immunolocalization analyses revealed that the loading of PAIR2, PAIR3, OsMER3, and ZEP1 all depended on OsREC8. By contrast, the presence of the OsREC8 signal in pair2, pair3, Osmer3, and zep1 mutants indicated that the loading of OsREC8 did not rely on these four proteins. These results suggest that OsREC8 has several essential roles in the meiotic processes.
21606319	One major objective for plant biology is the discovery of molecular subsystems underlying complex traits. The use of genetic and genomic resources combined in a systems genetics approach offers a means for approaching this goal. This study describes a maize (Zea mays) gene coexpression network built from publicly available expression arrays. The maize network consisted of 2,071 loci that were divided into 34 distinct modules that contained 1,928 enriched functional annotation terms and 35 cofunctional gene clusters. Of note, 391 maize genes of unknown function were found to be coexpressed within modules along with genes of known function. A global network alignment was made between this maize network and a previously described rice (Oryza sativa) coexpression network. The IsoRankN tool was used, which incorporates both gene homology and network topology for the alignment. A total of 1,173 aligned loci were detected between the two grass networks, which condensed into 154 conserved subgraphs that preserved 4,758 coexpression edges in rice and 6,105 coexpression edges in maize. This study provides an early view into maize coexpression space and provides an initial network-based framework for the translation of functional genomic and genetic information between these two vital agricultural species.
21606614	The objective of the work was to produce capric acid rich structured lipids starting from various Indian indigenous vegetable oils, such as rice bran, ground nut and mustard oils. Acidolysis reaction between individual vegetable oils and capric acid in one is to three molar ratios at 45 degree centigrade temperature was carried out using position specific Candida antarctica lipase so as to protect the Sn-2 position of the oils which are rich in unsaturated fatty acids. The incorporation of capric acid depended on the reaction time showing 6 % within 6 h and 30.8 % in 72 h with rice bran oil. Similarly, in ground nut oil incorporation of capric acid was 34.2 % in 72 h compared to 5.3 % in 6 h. Thus mustard oil showed much lower incorporation than the other two oils, with 3.3 % and 19.5 % in 6 and 72 h respectively. The incorporation of capric acid was influenced by the nature of the fatty acids present in the original oil. The fatty acid composition of Sn-2 position of the structured triacylglycerols of the three oils revealed that capric acid was mainly replacing the fatty acids occupying the Sn-1 and 3 positions of the triglyceride molecule.
21607616	Nitrogen plays a central role in rice growth and development because it modulates a wide variety of processes, including cytokinin (CK) metabolism. CK-mediated signaling is also related to nitrogen metabolism. The functional relation between nitrogen and CK are extremely complex and unclear. In this study, a comparative proteomic analysis was carried out to analyze proteins regulated by nitrogen and CK in rice roots. Proteins extracted from rice roots are separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Thirty-two protein spots that expressed similarly by nitrogen and CK treatments are selected for identification by mass spectrometry. Of these spots, 28 are successfully identified. These proteins were categorized into classes related to energy, metabolism, disease/defense, protein degradation, signal transduction, transposons, and unclear classification. Energy gives the largest functional category, suggesting that the glycolysis (two enzymes detected) and tricarboxylic acid cycle (six enzymes detected) are accurately regulated by nitrogen and CK, thus promoting the synthesis of amino acid. The identification of novel proteins provides new insights into the coordination of nitrogen and CK in rice. The possible role of these proteins is discussed.
21608494	Activated carbons with diverse physical and chemical properties were produced from four agriculture residues, including raw barley husk, biotreated barley husk, rice husk, and pistachio shell. Results showed that with adequate steam activation (30-90 min, 50% H2O(g),/50% N2), activated carbons with surface areas between 360 and 950 m2 g(-1) were developed. Further increases in the activation time destroyed the pore structure of activated carbons, which resulted in a decrease in the surface area and pore volume. Biotreated agricultural residues were found to be suitable precursors for producing mesoporous activated carbons. The oxygen content of activated carbons increased with increasing activation time. Results from X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy examination further suggested that H2O molecules react with the carbon surface, enhancing the deconvoluted peak area of carbonyl and carboxyl groups. Equilibrium adsorption of toluene indicated that the adsorption capacities increased with an increase in the inlet toluene concentration and a decrease in temperature. The adsorption isotherms were successfully fitted with Freundlich, Langmuir, and Dubinin-Radushkevich equations. Activated carbons derived from agricultural residues appear to be more applicable to adsorb volatile organic compounds at a low concentration and high-temperature environment.
21610725	In plants, iron (Fe) is essential for mitochondrial electron transport, heme, and Fe-Sulphur (Fe-S) cluster synthesis; however, plant mitochondrial Fe transporters have not been identified. Here we show, identify and characterize the rice mitochondrial Fe transporter (MIT). Based on a transfer DNA library screen, we identified a rice line showing symptoms of Fe deficiency while accumulating high shoot levels of Fe. Homozygous knockout of MIT in this line resulted in a lethal phenotype. MIT localized to the mitochondria and complemented the growth of Δmrs3Δmrs4 yeast defective in mitochondrial Fe transport. The growth of MIT-knockdown (mit-2) plants was also significantly impaired despite abundant Fe accumulation. Further, the decrease in the activity of the mitochondrial and cytosolic Fe-S enzyme, aconitase, indicated that Fe-S cluster synthesis is affected in mit-2 plants. These results indicate that MIT is a mitochondrial Fe transporter essential for rice growth and development.
2161101	Dietary fiber has been suggested to alter the colonic environment and protect against colorectal diseases, but several recent epidemiological studies indicate that cereal and vegetable fibers may not confer the same benefit. To address this issue, five common cereal brans (barley, corn, oat, rice, and wheat) and five vegetable fiber isolates (broccoli, cabbage, carrot, cauliflower, and lettuce) were fermented in vitro with human fecal microbiota for 4, 8, 12, and 24 hours. Short-chain fatty acid (SCFA), hydrogen (H2), and methane (CH4) productions and neutral-detergent fiber (NDF) digestibility differed significantly with fiber source. The vegetable fibers were significantly more fermentable than were the cereal brans, as evidenced by greater NDF digestibility and increased productions of SCFA, H2, and CH4, despite the presence of fermentable starch and protein in the latter. We concluded that vegetable fibers may more effectively stimulate colonic fermentation than cereal brans do. These findings suggest an attribute (i.e., fermentability) that may partially explain previously observed differences between vegetable and cereal fiber consumption patterns and colorectal carcinogenesis.
2161102	Upland culture of nine varieties at Ivory Coast resulted in decreases in grain weight, brown and milled rice translucency, Chroma meter L* of rough rice, Chroma meter L* and b* of milled rice, milled rice protein, and Amylograph peak viscosity, and in increases in total phenolics of hull and brown rice, and Chroma meter a* of rough, brown, and milled rice of 5 to 8 of the varieties as compared with irrigated culture. Upland culture had no consistent effect on grain resistance to Angoumois grain moth (Sitotraga cerealella).
21611830	The objective of this paper is to assess the impact of long-term electroplating industrial activities on heavy metal contamination in agricultural soils and potential health risks for local residents. Water, soil, and rice samples were collected from sites upstream (control) and downstream of the electroplating wastewater outlet. The concentrations of heavy metals were determined by an atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Fractionation and risk assessment code (RAC) were used to evaluate the environmental risks of heavy metals in soils. The health risk index (HRI) and hazard index (HI) were calculated to assess potential health risks to local populations through rice consumption. Hazardous levels of Cu, Cr, and Ni were observed in water and paddy soils at sites near the plant. According to the RAC analysis, the soils showed a high risk for Ni and a medium risk for Cu and Cr at certain sites. The rice samples were primarily contaminated with Ni, followed by Cr and Cu. HRI values >1 were not found for any heavy metal. However, HI values for adults and children were 2.075 and 1.808, respectively. Water, paddy soil, and rice from the studied area have been contaminated by Cu, Cr, and Ni. The contamination of these elements is related to the electroplating wastewater. Although no single metal poses health risks for local residents through rice consumption, the combination of several metals may threaten the health of local residents. Cu and Ni are the key components contributing to the potential health risks.
21612968	Ultrasonic technology was applied for extraction of polyphenols and antioxidants from the rice bran using ethanol as a food grade solvent. Response surface methodology (RSM) was used to optimize experimental conditions for extraction of polyphenols and antioxidants. Three independent variables such as solvent percentage (%), temperature (°C) and time (min) were studied. Effect of ethanol concentration was found to be significant on all responses. Total phenolic content (TPC) varied from 2.37 to 6.35mg gallic acid equivalent/g of dry sample. Antioxidant activity of the extracts was determined by the ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) assay and scavenging activity of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical. FRAP and DPPH values varied from 31.74 to 57.23μmol Fe(2+)/g of dry sample and 16.88% to 55.61% inhibition, respectively. Extraction yields ranged from 11 to 20.2%. Optimal ultrasonic-assisted extraction (UAE) conditions were identified as 65-67% ethanol, 51-54°C, 40-45min. The experimental values agreed with those predicted by SRM models, thus indicating suitability of the model employed and the success of RSM in optimizing the extraction conditions.
21613136	Fungi are major decomposers in certain ecosystems and essential associates of many organisms. They provide enzymes and drugs and serve as experimental organisms. In 1991, a landmark paper estimated that there are 1.5 million fungi on the Earth. Because only 70000 fungi had been described at that time, the estimate has been the impetus to search for previously unknown fungi. Fungal habitats include soil, water, and organisms that may harbor large numbers of understudied fungi, estimated to outnumber plants by at least 6 to 1. More recent estimates based on high-throughput sequencing methods suggest that as many as 5.1 million fungal species exist. Technological advances make it possible to apply molecular methods to develop a stable classification and to discover and identify fungal taxa. Molecular methods have dramatically increased our knowledge of Fungi in less than 20 years, revealing a monophyletic kingdom and increased diversity among early-diverging lineages. Mycologists are making significant advances in species discovery, but many fungi remain to be discovered. Fungi are essential to the survival of many groups of organisms with which they form associations. They also attract attention as predators of invertebrate animals, pathogens of potatoes and rice and humans and bats, killers of frogs and crayfish, producers of secondary metabolites to lower cholesterol, and subjects of prize-winning research. Molecular tools in use and under development can be used to discover the world's unknown fungi in less than 1000 years predicted at current new species acquisition rates.
21613379	Sugar transport is critical for normal plant development and stress responses. However, functional evidence for the roles of monosaccharide transporters in rice (Oryza sativa) has not previously been presented. In this study, reversed genetics was used to identify OsGMST1 as a member of the monosaccharide transporter family in rice. The predicted 481 amino acid protein has the typical features of a sugar transporter in the plastid glucose transporter subfamily consistent with reduced monosaccharide accumulation in plants with reduced OsGMST1 expression. OsGMST1-green fluorescent protein is localized to the Golgi apparatus. OsGMST1 expression is induced by salt treatment and reduced expression confers hypersensitivity to salt stress in rice. OsGMST1 may play a direct or an indirect role in tolerance to salt stress in rice.
21614718	This study was a pen trial in which the effects of adding different rates of liquid aluminum chloride (AlCl(3)) on litter pH, total volatile fatty acids (VFAs), and ammonia (NH(3)) fluxes was evaluated. Liquid AlCl(3) treatments used in this study were sprayed on the rice hull surface at rates of 100 g, 200 g, and 300 g liquid AlCl(3)/kg rice hulls; untreated rice hulls served as controls. Litter pH, total VFAs, and NH(3) fluxes were all lowered (P< 0.05) by all of the liquid AlCl(3) treatments compared with controls during certain times of the 5 week study. However, there were no significant differences among treatments on litter pH at the end of the study (from 3 to 5 weeks) or NH(3) fluxes at beginning of the study (0 to 3 weeks). Total VFAs were reduced 16 %, 29 %, and 53 % by 100 g liquid AlCl(3)/kg rice hulls, 200 g liquid AlCl(3)/kg rice hulls, and 300 g liquid AlCl(3)/kg rice hulls, respectively. Liquid AlCl(3)additions reduced NH(3) fluxes by 35 %, 57 % and 67 %, respectively, at the low, medium and high rates. In summary, these results indicate that adding liquid aluminum chloride to rice hulls would be a useful tool in reducing the negative environmental impact of poultry litter. It should be noted that the decreased VFA production and NH(3) volatilization was chiefly associated with reduction in litter pH.
21615081	Laboratory measurements were conducted to determine particle size distribution and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) emissions from the burning of rice, wheat, and corn straws, three major agricultural crop residues in China. Particle size distributions were determined by a wide-range particle spectrometer (WPS). PAHs in both the particulate and gaseous phases were simultaneously collected and analyzed by GC-MS. Particle number size distributions showed a prominent accumulation mode with peaks at 0.10, 0.15, and 0.15 μm for rice, wheat, and corn-burned aerosols, respectively. PAHs emission factors of rice, wheat, and corn straws were 5.26, 1.37, and 1.74 mg kg(-1), respectively. It was suggested that combustion with higher efficiency was characterized by smaller particle size and lower PAHs emission factors. The total PAHs emissions from the burning of three agricultural crop residues in China were estimated to be 1.09 Gg for the year 2004.
21615204	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causal agent of bacterial leaf streak in the model plant rice, possesses a hypersensitive response and pathogenicity (hrp), hrp-conserved (hrc), hrp-associated (hpa) cluster (hrp-hrc-hpa) that encodes a type III secretion system (T3SS) through which T3SS effectors are injected into host cells to cause disease or trigger plant defenses. Mutations in this cluster usually abolish the bacterial ability to cause hypersensitive response in nonhost tobacco and pathogenicity in host rice. In Xanthomonas spp., these genes are generally assumed to be regulated by the key master regulators HrpG and HrpX. However, we present evidence that, apart from HrpG and HrpX, HrpD6 is also involved in regulating the expression of hrp genes. Interestingly, the expression of hpa2, hpa1, hpaB, hrcC, and hrcT is positively controlled by HrpD6. Transcriptional expression assays demonstrated that the expression of the hrcC, hrpD5, hrpE, and hpa3 genes was not completely abolished by hrpG and hrpX mutations. As observed in analysis of their corresponding mutants, HrpG and HrpX exhibit contrasting gene regulation, particularly for hpa2 and hrcT. Other two-component system regulators (Zur, LrpX, ColR/S, and Trh) did not completely inhibit the expression of hrcC, hrpD5, hrpE, and hpa3. Immunoblotting assays showed that the secretion of HrpF, which is an HpaB-independent translocator, is not affected by the mutation in hrpD6. However, the mutation in hrpD6 affects the secretion of an HpaB-dependent TAL effector, AvrXa27. These novel findings suggest that, apart from HrpG and HrpX, HrpD6 plays important roles not only in the regulation of hrp genes but also in the secretion of TAL effectors.
21615569	Shugoshin is a conserved protein in eukaryotes that protects the centromeric cohesin of sister chromatids from cleavage by separase during meiosis. In this study, we identify the rice (Oryza sativa, 2n=2x=24) homolog of ZmSGO1 in maize (Zea mays), named OsSGO1. During both mitosis and meiosis, OsSGO1 is recruited from nucleoli onto centromeres at the onset of prophase. In the Tos17-insertional Ossgo1-1 mutant, centromeres of sister chromatids separate precociously from each other from metaphase I, which causes unequal chromosome segregation during meiosis II. Moreover, the release of OsSGO1 from nucleoli is completely blocked in Ossgo1-1, which leads to the absence of OsSGO1 in centromeric regions after the onset of mitosis and meiosis. Furthermore, the timely assembly and maintenance of synaptonemal complexes during early prophase I are affected in Ossgo1 mutants. Finally, we found that the centromeric localization of OsSGO1 depends on OsAM1, not other meiotic proteins such as OsREC8, PAIR2, OsMER3, or ZEP1.
21616795	Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) have many unique structural and mechanical properties. Their potential applications, especially in biomedical engineering and medical chemistry, have been increasing in recent years, but the toxicological impact of nanoparticles has rarely been studied in plants. • We exposed Arabidopsis and rice leaf protoplasts to SWCNTs and examined cell viability, DNA damage, reactive oxygen species generation, and related gene expression. We also tested the effects of nanoparticles on Arabidopsis leaves after injecting a SWCNT solution. EM-TUNEL (electron-microscopic terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling) and a cerium chloride staining method were used. • SWCNTs caused adverse cellular responses including cell aggregation, chromatin condensation along with a TUNEL-positive reaction, plasma membrane deposition, and H(2)O(2) accumulation. The effect of SWCNTs on the survival of cells was dose dependent, with 25 μg/mL inducing 25% cell death in 6 h. In contrast, activated carbon, which is not a nano-sized carbon particle, did not induce cell death even 24 h after treatments. The data indicated that the nano-size of the particle is a critical factor for toxicity. Moreover, endocytosis-like structures with cerium chloride deposits formed after SWCNT treatment, suggesting a possible pathway for nanoparticles to traverse the cell membrane. • Consequently, SWCNTs have an adverse effect on protoplasts and leaves through oxidative stress, leading to a certain amount of programmed cell death. Although nanomaterials have great advantages in many respects, the benefits and side effects still need to be assessed carefully.
21616911	Whole genome duplication (WGD) and subsequent evolution of gene pairs have been shown to have shaped the present day genomes of most, if not all, plants and to have played an essential role in the evolution of many eukaryotic genomes. Analysis of the rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica) genome sequence suggested an ancestral WGD ∼50-70 Ma common to all cereals and a segmental duplication between chromosomes 11 and 12 as recently as 5 Ma. More recent studies based on coding sequences have demonstrated that gene conversion is responsible for the high sequence conservation which suggested such a recent duplication. We previously showed that gene conversion has been a recurrent process throughout the Oryza genus and in closely related species and that orthologous duplicated regions are also highly conserved in other cereal genomes. We have extended these studies to compare megabase regions of genomic (coding and noncoding) sequences between two cultivated (O. sativa, Oryza glaberrima) and one wild (Oryza brachyantha) rice species using a novel approach of topological incongruency. The high levels of intraspecies conservation of both gene and nongene sequences, particularly in O. brachyantha, indicate long-range conversion events less than 4 Ma in all three species. These observations demonstrate megabase-scale conversion initiated within a highly rearranged region located at ∼2.1 Mb from the chromosome termini and emphasize the importance of gene conversion in cereal genome evolution.
21617109	Type 2 diabetes is a global public health crisis that threatens the economies of all nations, particularly developing countries. Fueled by rapid urbanization, nutrition transition, and increasingly sedentary lifestyles, the epidemic has grown in parallel with the worldwide rise in obesity. Asia's large population and rapid economic development have made it an epicenter of the epidemic. Asian populations tend to develop diabetes at younger ages and lower BMI levels than Caucasians. Several factors contribute to accelerated diabetes epidemic in Asians, including the "normal-weight metabolically obese" phenotype; high prevalence of smoking and heavy alcohol use; high intake of refined carbohydrates (e.g., white rice); and dramatically decreased physical activity levels. Poor nutrition in utero and in early life combined with overnutrition in later life may also play a role in Asia's diabetes epidemic. Recent advances in genome-wide association studies have contributed substantially to our understanding of diabetes pathophysiology, but currently identified genetic loci are insufficient to explain ethnic differences in diabetes risk. Nonetheless, interactions between Westernized diet and lifestyle and genetic background may accelerate the growth of diabetes in the context of rapid nutrition transition. Epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials show that type 2 diabetes is largely preventable through diet and lifestyle modifications. Translating these findings into practice, however, requires fundamental changes in public policies, the food and built environments, and health systems. To curb the escalating diabetes epidemic, primary prevention through promotion of a healthy diet and lifestyle should be a global public policy priority.
21617375	Phosphorus is one of the most essential and limiting macronutrients for plants. Phosphate (Pi) deficiency could affect crop productivity seriously in agriculture. How to cope with this problem? Unveiling the molecular mechanism behind the Pi starvation responses of plants will be helpful to solve this issue. Rice is one of the most important crops, which feeds over one-third of the people in the world. In this review, we summarize the recent progress on Pi starvation signaling in rice with the intention to provide a further insight into the molecular mechanism of Pi starvation responses in rice and to give a new research direction to design transgenic plants with high Pi efficiency.
21617377	The accumulation of silicon (Si) differs greatly with plant species and cultivars due to different ability of the roots to take up Si. In Si accumulating plants such as rice, barley and maize, Si uptake is mediated by the influx (Lsi1) and efflux (Lsi2) transporters. Here we report isolation and functional analysis of two Si efflux transporters (CmLsi2-1 and CmLsi2-2) from two pumpkin (Cucurbita moschata Duch.) cultivars contrasting in Si uptake. These cultivars are used for rootstocks of bloom and bloomless cucumber, respectively. Different from mutations in the Si influx transporter CmLsi1, there was no difference in the sequence of either CmLsi2 between two cultivars. Both CmLsi2-1 and CmLsi2-2 showed an efflux transport activity for Si and they were expressed in both the roots and shoots. These results confirm our previous finding that mutation in CmLsi1, but not in CmLsi2-1 and CmLsi2-2 are responsible for bloomless phenotype resulting from low Si uptake.
21618650	Apanteles cypris is an endoparasitoid of rice pest Cnaphalocrocis medinalis. To better understand its host location mechanism, we examined the external morphology of antennal sensilla of A. cypris via scanning electron microscopy. The antennae of male and female A. cypris were filiform in shape, which consist of scape, pedicel, and flagellum with 18 antennomeres. Eleven types of sensilla were recorded in both sexes, including two types of chaetica sensilla, trichodea sensilla without pore, basiconica sensilla I with a tip pore, basiconica sensilla II with wall pores, basiconica sensilla III with a mastoid at the tip, coeloconica sensilla with apparent fingerlike projections, campaniform sensilla with a sprout tip pore, clavatea sensilla, smell pore, and placodea sensilla (PLA) with the multiporous cuticular structure. We also compared the morphology, number, and distribution of the sensory receptors between the two sexes. The length and width of the antennae on the males were significantly greater than that of females. In addition, males of A. cypris showed a larger number and a higher density of PLA compared to females. The morphology and structure of these sensilla were compared to that found in other braconid wasps, and their possible functions in host location were discussed. These observations could facilitate future studies on the biology of olfaction in A. cypris.
21619109	2-(4-Morpholinyl)benzothiazole (24MoBT) exists in automobile tire rubber as an impurity of a vulcanization accelerator and has been proposed as a potential molecular marker of street runoff (Spies, R. B.; Andresen, B. D.; Rice, D. W., Jr. Nature 1987, 327, 697-699). The present paper describes an analytical method for 24MoBT in environmental samples (e.g., street dusts and river sediments) by gas chromatography. The method relies upon extraction with a 6:4 (v/v) mixture of benzene and methanol, purification by acid extraction, and adsorption column chromatography, followed by determination using capillary GC equipped with a sulfur-selective detector (i.e., FPD). The recovery of 24MoBT for the entire procedure was 85%, and the relative standard deviation for four replicated analyses was 1.5%. The detection limit was 0.08 ng injected 24MoBT, corresponding to 0.20 ng/g of dry sample. The selectivity and sensitivity of the present method permit the determination of 24MoBT at the trace levels (e.g., ∼ng/g) encountered in environmental samples. 24MoBT concentrations in various environmental samples are also reported.
21619458	Traditional hand-pounded rice has been replaced today with highly polished white rice in the Asian Indian diets. The study aimed to evaluate the nutritional as well as the sensory differences between the brown (0% polish) and the rice milled to different degrees of polish (2.3, 4.4 and 8.0%). Bapatla and Uma (red pigmented) varieties in both raw and parboiled forms were used. The protein, fat, dietary fibre, γ-oryzanol, polyphenols, vitamin E, total antioxidant activity and free radical scavenging abilities of the brown rice decreased while the available carbohydrates increased with polishing. Sensory attributes of the cooked rice samples (whiteness, grain intactness, fluffiness, firmness, stickiness, chewiness and the cooked rice aroma) were evaluated by trained panelists. Scores for branny taste and chewiness decreased with polishing. On the whole, brown rice of both the varieties was readily accepted by the well-informed sensory trained panelists.
21619600	Recent phylogenetic analyses have identified Amborella trichopoda, an understory tree species endemic to the forests of New Caledonia, as sister to a clade including all other known flowering plant species. The Amborella genome is a unique reference for understanding the evolution of angiosperm genomes because it can serve as an outgroup to root comparative analyses. A physical map, BAC end sequences and sample shotgun sequences provide a first view of the 870 Mbp Amborella genome. Analysis of Amborella BAC ends sequenced from each contig suggests that the density of long terminal repeat retrotransposons is negatively correlated with that of protein coding genes. Syntenic, presumably ancestral, gene blocks were identified in comparisons of the Amborella BAC contigs and the sequenced Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera and Oryza sativa genomes. Parsimony mapping of the loss of synteny corroborates previous analyses suggesting that the rate of structural change has been more rapid on lineages leading to Arabidopsis and Oryza compared with lineages leading to Populus and Vitis. The gamma paleohexiploidy event identified in the Arabidopsis, Populus and Vitis genomes is shown to have occurred after the divergence of all other known angiosperms from the lineage leading to Amborella. When placed in the context of a physical map, BAC end sequences representing just 5.4% of the Amborella genome have facilitated reconstruction of gene blocks that existed in the last common ancestor of all flowering plants. The Amborella genome is an invaluable reference for inferences concerning the ancestral angiosperm and subsequent genome evolution.
21619871	The synthesis of JA-Ile was catalysed by JA-Ile synthase, which is a member of the group I GH3 family of proteins. Here, we showed evidence that OsGH3.5 (OsJAR1) and OsGH3.3 (OsJAR2) are the functional JA-Ile synthases in rice, using recombinant proteins. The expression levels of OsJAR1 and OsJAR2 were induced in response to wounding with the concomitant accumulation of JA-Ile. In contrast, only the expression of OsJAR1 was associated with the accumulation of JA-Ile after blast infection. Our data suggest that these two JA-Ile synthases are differentially involved in the activation of JA signalling in response to wounding and pathogen challenge in rice.
21620514	Plant second metabolites momilactone A and B, which act as potent phytoalexins and allelochemicals, have been found thus far only in rice and the moss Hypnum plumaeforme, although both plants are taxonomically quite distinct. The concentrations of momilactone A and B, respectively, in rice plants were 4.5-140 and 2.9-85μg/g, and those in H. plumaeforme were 8.4-58.7 and 4.2-23.4μg/g. Momilactone A and B concentrations in rice and H. plumaeforme plants were increased by UV irradiation, elicitor and jasmonic acid treatments. Rice and H. plumaeforme plants secrete momilactone A and B into the rhizosphere, and the secretion level was also increased by UV irradiation, elicitor and jasmonic acid treatments. In addition, although endogenous concentrations of momilactone A in rice and H. plumaeforme were greater than those of momilactone B, the secretion levels of momilactone B were greater than those of momilactone A in rice and H. plumaeforme, which suggests that momilactone B may be selectively secreted by both rice and H. plumaeforme. As momilactone A and B exert potent antifungal and growth inhibitory activities, momilactone A and B may play an important role in the defense responses in H. plumaeforme and rice against pathogen infections and in allelopathy. The secretion of momilactone A and B into the rhizosphere may also prevent bacterial and fungal infections and provide a competitive advantage for nutrients through the inhibition of invading root systems of neighboring plants as allelochemicals. Therefore, both plants, despite their evolutionary distance, may use same defense strategy with respect to the momilactone A and B production and secretion, which resulting from convergent or parallel evolutionary processes. In the case of parallel evolution, there may be plant species providing the missing link in molecular evolution of momilactones between H. plumaeforme and rice.
21620695	The objective of this study was to investigate humification and mineralization of manure-straw mixtures contaminated by tetracyclines during composting. Hen manure, pig manure and rice straw were used as the raw materials. The manure-straw mixtures were spiked with tetracycline, chlortetracycline, and oxytetracycline at the concentration of 60 mg/kg dry matter. The results show that tetracyclines had no obvious influence on the composting process and more than 93% of the tetracyclines was decreased during a 45-day composting. The Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra indicated that easily biodegradable components such as aliphatic substrates, carbohydrates and polysaccharides were decomposed and the contents of aromatic components relatively rose during the composting. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra confirmed the natural formation of struvite, the degradation of easily biodegradable components, and the mineralization of organic matter during the composting. Therefore, FTIR and XRD analysis can be useful tools for monitoring the composting process.
21621568	The nonstructural protein P9-1 of Rice black streaked dwarf virus has been confirmed to accumulate in viroplasms, the putative sites of viral replication, in infected plants and insects. We transformed rice plants by introducing an RNA interference construct against the P9-1-encoding gene. The resultant transgenic plants accumulated short interfering RNAs specific to the construct. All progenies produced by self-fertilization of these transgenic plants with induced RNA interference against the gene for P9-1 were resistant to infection by the virus. Our results demonstrated that interfering with the expression of a viroplasm component protein of plant reoviruses, which plays an important role in viral proliferation, might be a practical and effective way to control plant reovirus infection in crop plants.
21621742	Rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe oryzae, is one of the most devastating diseases. Using map-based strategy and in silico approach we isolated a new rice (Oryza sativa L.) blast resistance allele of Pid3, designated Pi25, from a stable blast resistance cultivar Gumei2. Over-expression analysis and complementation test showed that Pi25 conferred blast resistance to M. oryzae isolate js001-20. Sequence analysis showed that Pi25 was an intronless gene of 2,772 nucleotides with single nucleotide substitution in comparison to Pid3 at the nucleotide position 459 and predicatively encoded a typical coiled coil--nucleotide binding site--leucine rich repeat (CC--NBS--LRR) protein of 924 amino acid residuals with 100% identity to Pid3 putative protein. The susceptible allele pi25 in Nipponbare contained a nonsense mutation at the nucleotide position 2,209 resulting in a truncated protein with 736 amino acid residuals. In addition, 14 nucleotide substitutions resulting in 10 amino acid substitutions were identified between Pi25 and pi25 upstream the premature stop codon in the susceptible allele. Although the mechanism of Pi25/Pid3-mediated resistance needs to be further investigated, the isolation of the allele would facilitate the utilization of Pi25/Pid3 in rice blast resistance breeding program via transgenic approach and marker assisted selection.
21621743	Panicle architecture is closely related to yield formation. The qPE9-1 gene has been proved to be widely used in high-yield rice cultivar developments, conferring erect panicle character in japonica rice. Recently, qPE9-1 has been successfully cloned; however, the genetic effect on grain yield per plant of the erect panicle allele qPE9-1 is controversial yet. In the present study, a drooping panicle parent Nongken 57, carrying qpe9-1 allele, was used as recurrent parent to successively backcross to a typical erect panicle line from the double haploid (DH) population (Wuyunjing 8/Nongken 57), which was previously shown to carry qPE9-1 allele. Thus a pair of near-isogenic lines (NILs) was developed. The comparison of agronomic traits between the NILs showed that, when qpe9-1 was replaced by qPE9-1, the panicle architecture was changed from drooping to erect; moreover, the panicle length, plant height, 1000-grain weight and the tillers were significantly decreased, consequently resulting in the dramatic decrease of grain yield per plant by 30%. Therefore, we concluded that the qPE9-1 was a major factor controlling panicle architecture, and qPE9-1 had pleiotropic nature, with negative effects on grain yield per plant. This result strongly suggests that the erect panicle allele qPE9-1 should be used together with other favorable genes in the high-yield breeding practice. In addition, the effect of qPE9-1 on eating and cooking quality was also discussed in the present study.
21621873	To further understand flowering and flower organ formation in the monocot crop saffron crocus (Crocus sativus L.), we cloned four MIKC(c) type II MADS-box cDNA sequences of the E-class SEPALLATA3 (SEP3) subfamily designated CsatSEP3a/b/c/c_as as well as the three respective genomic sequences. Sequence analysis showed that cDNA sequences of CsatSEP3 c and c_as are the products of alternative splicing of the CsatSEP3c gene. Bioinformatics analysis with putative orthologous sequences from various plant species suggested that all four cDNA sequences encode for SEP3-like proteins with characteristic motifs and amino acids, and highlighted intriguing sequence features. Phylogenetically, the isolated sequences were closest to the SEP3-like genes from monocots such as Asparagus virgatus, Oryza sativa, Zea mays, and the dicot Arabidopsis SEP3 gene. All four isolated C. sativus sequences were strongly expressed in flowers and in all flower organs: whorl1 tepals, whorl2 tepals, stamens and carpels, but not in leaves. Expression of CsatSEP3a/b/c/c_as cDNAs was compared in wild-type and mutant flowers. Expression of the isolatedCsatSEP3-like genes in whorl1 tepals together with E-class CsatAP1/FUL subfamily and B-class CsatAP3 and CsatPI subfamilies of genes, fits the ABCE "quartet model," an extended form of the original ABC model proposed to explain the homeotic transformation of whorl1 sepals into whorl1 tepals in Liliales and Asparagales plants such as C. sativus. This conclusion was also supported by the interaction of the CsatSEP3b protein with CsatAP1/FUL and CsatAP3 proteins. In contrast, expression of both B-class CsatAP3 and CsatPI genes and the C-class CsatAGAMOUS genes together with E-class CsatSEP3-like genes in carpels, without any phenotypic effects on carpels, raises questions about the role of these gene classes in carpel formation in this non-grass monocot and requires further experimentation. Finally, taking advantage of the size and sequence differences in amplified genomic sequences of the triploid C. sativus and comparing them with the respective sequences from C. tomasii, C. hadriaticus and C. cartwrightianus, three putative wild-type diploid progenitor species, we examined the origin of CsatSEP3a sequence.
21622421	Understanding the evolutionary path of transcription factors is essential for the elucidation of plant evolution. The CRC/DL subfamily of the YABBY gene family are functionally diverse, plant-specific, putative transcription factors. In Arabidopsis thaliana, CRABS CLAW (CRC) is expressed in the abaxial region of carpel primordia and in floral nectaries, where it regulates carpel morphology and nectary development. By contrast, in Oryza sativa, DROOPING LEAF (DL) is expressed in the entire carpel primordium and in the central undifferentiated cells of leaves, where it regulates carpel identity and midrib development. Recent studies suggest that abaxial expression and functional roles in the carpel are ancestral characters, although when and how neo-functionalizations occurred remains unclear. To elucidate the evolutionary processes of the CRC/DL subfamily, we examined in situ expression patterns of a CRC ortholog (AaDL) in Asparagus asparagoides (Asparagales). Like CRC in Arabidopsis thaliana, AaDL was clearly expressed in the abaxial region of the ovary wall. Expression was also detected in the phloem of leaves, but not in the septal nectary. Thus, expression in the entire carpel primordium might have been acquired after the divergence of Asparagus, with expression competence in the leaves acquired before the divergence of Asparagus in monocots. Our data indicate that the evolution of CRC/DL subfamily genes occurred in a stepwise manner.
21622665	Oryza sativa is widely used as a model organism for many aspects of research in monocots and cereals. However, it has certain disadvantages as a model species compared with Arabidopsis thaliana, the eudicot species most widely used in plant sciences: first, it has a long cultivation time; and second, it requires considerably more space for growth. Here, we introduce a biotron breeding system, which allows rapid and reliable rice cultivation using a well-equipped artificial environmental chamber. This system involves use of regulation of CO₂ levels, removal of tillers and embryo rescue to overcome the disadvantages of rice cultivation. The rice cultivars Nipponbare, Koshihikari, Taichung 65 and Kasalath all showed vigorous growth and sufficient seed production in the biotron breeding system with accelerated flowering time. Nipponbare, which was the earliest among these cultivars, flowered at about 50 d after sowing. The life cycle of these plants could be further shortened using an embryo rescue technique on immature seeds at 7 d after pollination, thereby avoiding the lengthy process of seed maturation. Overall, it was possible to shorten the life cycle of Nipponbare to about 2 months under the controlled conditions. Furthermore, controlled crosses, which can be difficult with conventional cultivation methods, were easy to perform as we could control the exact timing of anther dehiscence. Thus, our biotron breeding system offers a valuable new approach to genetic and breeding studies in rice.
21622801	All six arms of the group 1 chromosomes of hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum) were sequenced with Roche/454 to 1.3- to 2.2-fold coverage and compared with similar data sets from the homoeologous chromosome 1H of barley (Hordeum vulgare). Six to ten thousand gene sequences were sampled per chromosome. These were classified into genes that have their closest homologs in the Triticeae group 1 syntenic region in Brachypodium, rice (Oryza sativa), and/or sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and genes that have their homologs elsewhere in these model grass genomes. Although the number of syntenic genes was similar between the homologous groups, the amount of nonsyntenic genes was found to be extremely diverse between wheat and barley and even between wheat subgenomes. Besides a small core group of genes that are nonsyntenic in other grasses but conserved among Triticeae, we found thousands of genic sequences that are specific to chromosomes of one single species or subgenome. By examining in detail 50 genes from chromosome 1H for which BAC sequences were available, we found that many represent pseudogenes that resulted from transposable element activity and double-strand break repair. Thus, Triticeae seem to accumulate nonsyntenic genes frequently. Since many of them are likely to be pseudogenes, total gene numbers in Triticeae are prone to pronounced overestimates.
21622811	Rice (Oryza sativa) and wheat (Triticum aestivum) are the most important starch crops in world agriculture. While both germinate with an anatomically similar coleoptile, this tissue defines the early anoxia tolerance of rice and the anoxia intolerance of wheat seedlings. We combined protein and metabolite profiling analysis to compare the differences in response to anoxia between the rice and wheat coleoptiles. Rice coleoptiles responded to anoxia dramatically, not only at the level of protein synthesis but also at the level of altered metabolite pools, while the wheat response to anoxia was slight in comparison. We found significant increases in the abundance of proteins in rice coleoptiles related to protein translation and antioxidant defense and an accumulation of a set of enzymes involved in serine, glycine, and alanine biosynthesis from glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate or pyruvate, which correlates with an observed accumulation of these amino acids in anoxic rice. We show a positive effect on wheat root anoxia tolerance by exogenous addition of these amino acids, indicating that their synthesis could be linked to rice anoxia tolerance. The potential role of amino acid biosynthesis contributing to anoxia tolerance in cells is discussed.
21623501	Approximately 200 samples of rice (including white, brown, red, black, basmati and jasmine, as well as wild rice) from several different countries, including the United States, Canada, Pakistan, India and Thailand, were analysed for aflatoxins, ochratoxin A (OTA) and fumonisins by separate liquid chromatographic methods in two different years. The mean concentrations for aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) were 0.19 and 0.17 ng g(-1) with respective positive incidences of 56% and 43% (≥ the limit of detection (LOD) of 0.002 ng g(-1)). Twenty-three samples analysed in the second year also contained aflatoxin B(2) (AFB(2)) at levels ≥LOD of 0.002 ng g(-1). The five most contaminated samples in each year contained 1.44-7.14 ng AFB(1) g(-1) (year 1) and 1.45-3.48 ng AFB(1) g(-1) (year 2); they were mostly basmati rice from India and Pakistan and black and red rice from Thailand. The average concentrations of ochratoxin A (OTA) were 0.05 and 0.005 ng g(-1) in year 1 and year 2, respectively; incidences of samples containing ≥LOD of 0.05 ng g(-1) were 43% and 1%, respectively, in the 2 years. All positive OTA results were confirmed by LC-MS/MS. For fumonisins, concentrations of fumonisin B(1) (FB(1)) averaged 4.5 ng g(-1) in 15 positive samples (≥0.7 ng g(-1)) from year 1 (n = 99); fumonisin B(2) (FB(2)) and fumonisin B(3) (FB(3)) were also present (≥1 ng g(-1)). In the second year there was only one positive sample (14 ng g(-1) FB(1)) out of 100 analysed. All positive FB(1) results were confirmed by LC-MS/MS.
21624033	The excessive application of nitrogen fertilizer to maximize crop yields causes negative environmental effects such as pollution and ecological imbalance. To overcome this problem, researchers have attempted to improve the nitrogen assimilation capacity of crops. Maize Dof1 (ZmDof1) is a plant-specific transcription factor shown to promote nitrogen assimilation in Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) even under nitrogen-deficient conditions. The present study examines the effect of the introduction of the ZmDof1 gene on carbon and nitrogen assimilation in rice. ZmDof1 induced the expression of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) genes in transgenic rice plants and transactivated the PEPC promoters in protoplast transient assays, showing similar effects in rice as in Arabidopsis. Transgenic rice expressing ZmDof1 and grown in the presence of 360 μm (nitrogen-sufficient) or 90 μm (nitrogen-deficient) of nitrogen concentrations showed modulation of metabolite content and gene expression associated with the anaplerotic pathway for the TCA cycle, suggesting an increased carbon flow towards nitrogen assimilation. Furthermore, increases in carbon and nitrogen amounts per seedling were found in Dof1 rice grown under nitrogen-deficient conditions. Nitrogen deficiency also resulted in the predominant distribution of nitrogen to roots, accompanied by significant increases in root biomass and modification of the shoot-to-root ratio. Measurement of the CO₂ gas exchange rate showed a significant increase in the net photosynthesis rate in Dof1 rice under nitrogen-deficient conditions. Taken these together, the present study displayed that ZmDof1 expression in rice could induce gene expressions such as PEPC genes, modulate carbon and nitrogen metabolites, increase nitrogen assimilation and enhance growth under low-nitrogen conditions.
21624326	To analyze the status and trend of dietary fiber intake and its food sources among Chinese residents aged 18 - 45 years old in 9 provinces (autonomous region), from 1989 to 2006. Twenty-four-hour dietary recall data of three consecutive days from China Health and Nutrition Survey (1989, 1991, 1993, 1997, 2000, 2004 and 2006) were used. And the 18 - 45 years old subjects with complete information on dietary survey were included. The sample size of these 7 surveys were 5597, 5596, 5323, 5485, 5308, 4144 and 3889, respectively. The trends of dietary fiber intake and food sources by time and sex were studied. From 1989 to 2000, the total of daily dietary fiber intake of 18 - 45 years old healthy residents decreased from 15.1 g/d to 11.6 g/d, insoluble dietary fiber intake decreased from 22.6 g/d to 17.8 g/d. In villages, from 1989 to 2000, the insoluble dietary fiber intake decreased 5.1 g/d in males and 5.2 g/d in females(13.2, 11.8 g in 2000, respectively;18.3, 17.0 g in 1989, respectively). In 2006, the insoluble dietary intake was 12.6 g/d in males and 11.2 g/d in females in villages. In cities, from 1989 to 2006, the insoluble dietary fiber intake was 9.4 - 11.8 g/d in males and 8.3 - 10.8 g/d in females. The total dietary fiber intake was 15.7 - 17.6 g/d in males and 13.5 - 16.4 g/d in females. The difference of insoluble and total dietary fiber intake between city and village was decreasing. In 2006, 70.6% (8.4/11.9) insoluble dietary fiber came from vegetables ((4.1 ± 3.1) g/d), wheat flour and its products ((2.6 ± 3.6) g/d), rice and its products ((1.7 ± 1.3) g/d). Dietary fiber intake among Chinese aged 18 - 45 in 9 provinces (autonomous region) decreased from 1989 to 2006. Vegetables, wheat flour, rice and their products were the major food sources of insoluble dietary fiber.
21624978	The intersubspecific hybrids of autotetraploid rice has many features that increase rice yield, but lower seed set is a major hindrance in its utilization. Pollen sterility is one of the most important factors which cause intersubspecific hybrid sterility. The hybrids with greater variation in seed set were used to study how the F(1) pollen sterile loci (S-a, S-b, and S-c) interact with each other and how abnormal chromosome behaviour and allelic interaction of F(1) sterility loci affect pollen fertility and seed set of intersubspecific autotetraploid rice hybrids. The results showed that interaction between pollen sterility loci have significant effects on the pollen fertility of autotetraploid hybrids, and pollen fertility further decreased with an increase in the allelic interaction of F(1) pollen sterility loci. Abnormal ultra-structure and microtubule distribution patterns during pollen mother cell (PMC) meiosis were found in the hybrids with low pollen fertility in interphase and leptotene, suggesting that the effect-time of pollen sterility loci interaction was very early. There were highly significant differences in the number of quadrivalents and bivalents, and in chromosome configuration among all the hybrids, and quadrivalents decreased with an increase in the seed set of autotetraploid hybrids. Many different kinds of chromosomal abnormalities, such as chromosome straggling, chromosome lagging, asynchrony of chromosome disjunction, and tri-fission were found during the various developmental stages of PMC meiosis. All these abnormalities were significantly higher in sterile hybrids than in fertile hybrids, suggesting that pollen sterility gene interactions tend to increase the chromosomal abnormalities which cause the partial abortion of male gametes and leads to the decline in the seed set of the autotetraploid rice hybrids.
21625436	NITRIC OXIDE-ASSOCIATED1 (NOA1) encodes a circularly permuted GTPase (cGTPase) known to be essential for ribosome assembly in plants. While the reduced chlorophyll and Rubisco phenotypes were formerly noticed in both NOA1-suppressed rice and Arabidopsis, a detailed insight is still necessary. In this study, by using RNAi transgenic rice, we further demonstrate that NOA1 functions in a temperature-dependent manner to regulate chlorophyll and Rubisco levels. When plants were grown at 30°C, the chlorophyll and Rubisco levels in OsNOA1-silenced plants were only slightly lower than those in WT. However, at 22°C, the silenced plants accumulated far less chlorophyll and Rubisco than WT. It was further revealed that the regulation of chlorophyll and Rubisco occurs at the anabolic level. Etiolated WT seedlings restored chlorophyll and Rubisco accumulations readily once returned to light, at either 30°C or 15°C. Etiolated OsNOA1-silenced plants accumulated chlorophyll and Rubisco to normal levels only at 30°C, and lost this ability at low temperature. On the other hand, de-etiolated OsNOA1-silenced seedlings maintained similar levels of chlorophyll and Rubisco as WT, even after being shifted to 15°C for various times. Further expression analyses identified several candidate genes, including OsPorA (NADPH: protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase A), OsrbcL (Rubisco large subunit), OsRALyase (Ribosomal RNA apurinic site specific lyase) and OsPuf4 (RNA-binding protein of the Puf family), which may be involved in OsNOA1-regulated chlorophyll biosynthesis and Rubisco formation. Overall, our results suggest OsNOA1 functions in a temperature-dependent manner to regulate chlorophyll biosynthesis, Rubisco formation and plastid development in rice.
21625508	The formation of appressoria, specialized plant penetration structures of Magnaporthe oryzae, is regulated by the MST11-MST7-PMK1 MAP kinase cascade. One of its downstream transcription factor, MST12, is important for penetration and invasive growth but dispensable for appressorium formation. To identify additional downstream targets that are regulated by Pmk1, in this study we performed phosphorylation assays with a protein microarray composed of 573 M. oryzae transcription factor (TF) genes. Three of the TF genes phosphorylated by Pmk1 in vitro were further analyzed by coimmunoprecipitation assays. One of them, MoSFL1, was found to interact with Pmk1 in vivo. Like other Sfl1 orthologs, the MoSfl1 protein has the HSF-like domain. When expressed in yeast, MoSFL1 functionally complemented the flocculation defects of the sfl1 mutant. In M. oryzae, deletion of MoSFl1 resulted in a significant reduction in virulence on rice and barley seedlings. Consistent with this observation, the Mosfl1 mutant was defective in invasive growth in penetration assays with rice leaf sheaths. In comparison with that of vegetative hyphae, the expression level of MoSFL1 was increased in appressoria and infected rice leaves. The Mosfl1 mutant also had increased sensitivity to elevated temperatures. In CM cultures of the Mosfl1 and pmk1 mutants grown at 30°C, the production of aerial hyphae and melanization were reduced but their growth rate was not altered. When assayed by qRT-PCR, the transcription levels of the MoHSP30 and MoHSP98 genes were reduced 10- and 3-fold, respectively, in the Mosfl1 mutant. SFL1 orthologs are conserved in filamentous ascomycetes but none of them have been functionally characterized in non-Saccharomycetales fungi. MoSfl1 has one putative MAPK docking site and three putative MAPK phosphorylation sites. Therefore, it may be functionally related to Pmk1 in the regulation of invasive growth and stress responses in M. oryzae.
21626211	Since plants cannot move to avoid stress, they have sophisticated acclimation mechanisms against a variety of abiotic stresses. The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) plays essential roles in abiotic stress tolerances in land plants. Therefore, it is interesting to address the evolutionary origins of ABA metabolism and its signaling pathways in land plants. Here, we focused on 48 ABA-related Arabidopsis thaliana genes with 11 protein functions, and generated 11 orthologous clusters of ABA-related genes from A. thaliana, Arabidopsis lyrata, Populus trichocarpa, Oryza sativa, Selaginella moellendorffii, and Physcomitrella patens. Phylogenetic analyses suggested that the common ancestor of these six species possessed most of the key protein functions of ABA-related genes. In two species (A. thaliana and O. sativa), duplicate genes related to ABA signaling pathways contribute to the expression variation in different organs or stress responses. In particular, there is significant expansion of gene families related to ABA in evolutionary periods associated with morphological divergence. Taken together, these results suggest that expansion of the gene families related to ABA signaling pathways may have contributed to the sophisticated stress tolerance mechanisms of higher land plants.
21627843	Plant mitochondria contain a relatively large amount of genetic information, suggesting that their functional regulation may not be as straightforward as that of metazoans. We used a genomic tiling array to draw a transcriptomic atlas of Oryza sativa japonica (rice) mitochondria, which was predicted to be approximately 490-kb long. Whereas statistical analysis verified the transcription of all previously known functional genes such as the ones related to oxidative phosphorylation, a similar extent of RNA expression was frequently observed in the inter-genic regions where none of the previously annotated genes are located. The newly identified open reading frames (ORFs) predicted in these transcribed inter-genic regions were generally not conserved among flowering plant species, suggesting that these ORFs did not play a role in mitochondrial principal functions. We also identified two partial fragments of retrotransposon sequences as being transcribed in rice mitochondria. The present study indicated the previously unexpected complexity of plant mitochondrial RNA metabolism. Our transcriptomic data (Oryza sativa Mitochondrial rna Expression Server: OsMES) is publicly accessible at [http://bioinf.mind.meiji.ac.jp/cgi-bin/gbrowse/OsMes/#search].
21628471	Plants have a sensitive system that detects various pathogen-derived molecules to protect against infection. Flagellin, a main component of the bacterial flagellum, from the rice avirulent N1141 strain of the Gram-negative phytopathogenic bacterium Acidovorax avenae induces plant immune responses including H₂O generation, whereas flagellin from the rice virulent K1 strain of A. avenae does not induce these immune responses. To clarify the molecular mechanism that leads to these differing responses between the K1 and N1141 flagellins, recombinant K1 and N1141 flagellins were generated using an Escherichia coli expression system. When cultured rice cells were treated with recombinant K1 or N1141 flagellin, both flagellins equally induced H₂O₂ generation, suggesting that post-translational modifications of the flagellins are involved in the specific induction of immune responses. Mass spectrometry analyses using glycosyltransferase-deficient mutants showed that 1,600- and 2,150-Da glycans were present on the flagellins from N1141 and K1, respectively. A deglycosylated K1 flagellin induced immune responses in the same manner as N1141 flagellin. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that glycans were attached to four amino acid residues (Ser¹⁷⁸, Ser¹⁸³, Ser²¹², and Thr³⁵¹) in K1 flagellin. Among mutant K1 flagellins in which each glycan-attached amino acid residue was changed to alanine, S178A and S183A, K1 flagellin induced a strong immune response in cultured rice cells, indicating that the glycans at Ser¹⁷⁸ and Ser¹⁸³ in K1 flagellin prevent epitope recognition in rice.
21630451	Construction of metabolic and regulatory pathways from proteomic data can contextualize the large-scale data within the overall physiological scheme of an organism. It is an efficient way to predict metabolic phenotype or regulatory style. We did protein profiling in the germinating rice seeds through 1-DE via LC MS/MS proteomic shotgun strategy. In total, 673 proteins were identified, and could be sorted into 14 functional groups. The largest group was metabolism related. The metabolic proteins were integrated into different metabolic pathways to show the style of reserves mobilization and precursor preparation during the germination. Analysis of the regulatory proteins indicated that regulation of redox homeostasis and gene expression also play important roles for the rice seed germination. Although transcription is unnecessary for the germination, it could ensure the rapidity and uniformity of germination. On the contrary, translation with the stored mRNA is required for the germination. This study will help us to further understand the metabolic style, regulation of redox homeostasis, and gene expression during rice seed germination.
21631533	Current studies, particularly in Arabidopsis, have demonstrated that mutants deficient in cytosolic ascorbate peroxidases (APXs) are susceptible to the oxidative damage induced by abiotic stress. In contrast, we demonstrate here that rice mutants double silenced for cytosolic APXs (APx1/2s) up-regulated other peroxidases, making the mutants able to cope with abiotic stress, such as salt, heat, high light and methyl viologen, similar to non-transformed (NT) plants. The APx1/2s mutants exhibited an altered redox homeostasis, as indicated by increased levels of H₂O₂ and ascorbate and glutathione redox states. Both mutant and NT plants exhibited similar photosynthesis (CO₂) assimilation and photochemical efficiency) under both normal and stress conditions. Overall, the antioxidative compensatory mechanism displayed by the mutants was associated with increased expression of OsGpx genes, which resulted in higher glutathione peroxidase (GPX) activity in the cytosolic and chloroplastic fractions. The transcript levels of OsCatA and OsCatB and the activities of catalase (CAT) and guaiacol peroxidase (GPOD; type III peroxidases) were also up-regulated. None of the six studied isoforms of OsApx were up-regulated under normal growth conditions. Therefore, the deficiency in cytosolic APXs was effectively compensated for by up-regulation of other peroxidases. We propose that signalling mechanisms triggered in rice mutants could be distinct from those proposed for Arabidopsis.
21631728	Polar auxin transport, which depends on polarized subcellular distribution of AUXIN RESISTANT 1/LIKE AUX1 (AUX1/LAX) influx carriers and PIN-FORMED (PIN) efflux carriers, mediates various processes of plant growth and development. Endosomal recycling of PIN1 is mediated by an adenosine diphosphate (ADP)ribosylation factor (ARF)-GTPase exchange factor protein, GNOM. However, the mediation of auxin influx carrier recycling is poorly understood. Here, we report that overexpression of OsAGAP, an ARF-GTPase-activating protein in rice, stimulates vesicle transport from the plasma membrane to the Golgi apparatus in protoplasts and transgenic plants and induces the accumulation of early endosomes and AUX1. AUX1 endosomes could partially colocalize with FM4-64 labeled early endosome after actin disruption. Furthermore, OsAGAP is involved in actin cytoskeletal organization, and its overexpression tends to reduce the thickness and bundling of actin filaments. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analysis revealed exocytosis of the AUX1 recycling endosome was not affected in the OsAGAP overexpression cells, and was only slightly promoted when the actin filaments were completely disrupted by Lat B. Thus, we propose that AUX1 accumulation in the OsAGAP overexpression and actin disrupted cells may be due to the fact that endocytosis of the auxin influx carrier AUX1 early endosome was greatly promoted by actin cytoskeleton disruption.
21631875	The purpose of this research was to describe how older adult internet users from senior centres in Korea accessed and used health information on the internet and the perceived barriers that prevented internet use. Increasingly, patients are using health-related information available on the internet. Internet based health information has influenced patient knowledge and expectations regarding healthcare. However, there are few studies about the use of internet for health information by older adults, and even less is known about older adults in Korea. Based on the Access to Information framework developed by McCreadie and Rice, this quantitative study with a qualitative adjunct explored the older adults' use of internet for health information. A convenience sample of 91 community-dwelling older adults in Korea was recruited from 10 randomly selected senior centres, using the modified Kaiser Family Foundation Survey as the basis for structured interview. Half of older internet users (n = 13) had used online health information and found it was helpful. Barriers to internet use were: no interest (90.8%); too complicated (75%); no experience in using internet (∼50%); too expensive (∼50%); or disability (10%). Qualitative findings revealed that the prime reason for non-use of the internet was related to literacy and level of education due to historical background. The results of quantitative and qualitative analysis supported that the internet users were relatively younger, more educated, male, had a higher income, received more support from others and all from large senior centres. This study is important because the results can provide valuable insights into the potential for health education and health communication for older adults in Korea using the internet. It could affect health promotion, policy and education for older adults in Korea.
21631950	Cytoplasmic effects on agronomic traits--involving cytoplasmic and nuclear genomes of either different species or different cultivars--are well documented in wheat but have seldom been demonstrated in rice (Oryza sativa L.). To detect cytoplasmic effects, we introgressed the nuclear genomes of three indica cultivars--Guichao 2, Jiangchengkugu, and Dianrui 449--into the cytoplasms of six indica cultivars - Dijiaowujian, Shenglixian, Zhuzhan, Nantehao, Aizizhan, and Peta. These 18 nuclear substitution lines were evaluated during the winter season of 2005 in Sanya, Hainan, China, and during the summer season of 2006 in Kunming, Yunnan, China. The effects of 6 cytoplasm sources, 3 nucleus sources, 2 locations and their interactions were estimated for plant height, panicle length, panicle number per plant, spikelet number per panicle, grain weight, filled-grain ratio, and yield per plot. For five of the seven traits, analysis of variance showed that there were no significant cytoplasmic effects or interactions involving cytoplasmic effects. The effect of cytoplasm on 1000-grain weight was highly significant. Mean 1000-grain weight over the two locations in four of the six cytoplasms clustered close to the overall mean, whereas plants with Nantehao cytoplasm had a high, and those with Peta cytoplasm a low mean grain weight. There was a highly significant three-way interaction affecting filled-grain ratio. At Sanya, cytoplasms varied in very narrow ranges within nuclear backgrounds. Strong cytoplasmic effects were observed only at Kunming and in only two of the three nuclear backgrounds; in the Jianchenkugu nuclear background, there was no evidence of strong cytoplasmic effects at either location. In the Dianrui 449 and Guichao 2 nuclear background evaluated at Kunming, filled-grain ratios of the six cytoplasms showed striking rank shifts We detected cytoplasmic variation for two agronomically important traits in indica rice. The cytoplasm source had a significant effect on grain weight across the two experimental locations. There was also a significant cytoplasmic effect on filled-grain ratio, but only in two of three nuclear background and at one of the two locations. The results extend our previous findings with japonica rice, suggesting that the selection of appropriate cytoplasmic germplasm is broadly important in rice breeding, and that cytoplasmic effects on some traits, such as filled-grain ratio, cannot be generalized; effects should be evaluated in the nuclear backgrounds of interest and at multiple locations.
21632090	At present, soil quality standards used for agriculture do not consider the influence of pH and CEC on the uptake of pollutants by crops. A database with 750 selected paired samples of cadmium (Cd) in soil and paddy rice was used to calibrate soil to plant transfer models using the soil metal content, pH, and CEC or soil Cd and Zn extracted by 0.01 M CaCl₂ as explanatory variables. The models were validated against a set of 2300 data points not used in the calibration. These models were then used inversely to derive soil quality standards for Japonica and Indica rice cultivars based on the food quality standards for rice. To account for model uncertainty, strict soil quality standards were derived considering a maximum probability that rice exceeds the food quality standard equal to 10 or 5%. Model derived soil standards based on Aqua Regia ranged from less than 0.3 mg kg⁻¹ for Indica at pH 4.5 to more than 6 mg kg⁻¹ for Japonica-type cultivars in clay soils at pH 7. Based on the CaCl₂ extract, standards ranged from 0.03 mg kg⁻¹ Cd for Indica cultivars to 0.1 mg kg⁻¹ Cd for Japonica cultivars. For both Japonica and Indica-type cultivars, the soil quality standards must be reduced by a factor of 2 to 3 to obtain the strict standards. The strong impact of pH and CEC on soil quality standards implies that it is essential to correct for soil type when deriving national or local standards. Validation on the remaining 2300 samples indicated that both types of models were able to accurately predict (> 92%) whether rice grown on a specific soil will meet the food quality standard used in Taiwan.
21632110	Even moderate arsenic exposure may lead to health problems, and thus quantifying inorganic arsenic (iAs) exposure from food for different population groups in China is essential. By analyzing the data from the China National Nutrition and Health Survey (CNNHS) and collecting reported values of iAs in major food groups, we developed a framework of calculating average iAs daily intake for different regions of China. Based on this framework, cancer risks from iAs in food was deterministically and probabilistically quantified. The article presents estimates for health risk due to the ingestion of food products contaminated with arsenic. Both per individual and for total population estimates were obtained. For the total population, daily iAs intake is around 42 μg day(-1), and rice is the largest contributor of total iAs intake accounting for about 60%. Incremental lifetime cancer risk from food iAs intake is 106 per 100,000 for adult individuals and the median population cancer risk is 177 per 100,000 varying between regions. Population in the Southern region has a higher cancer risk than that in the Northern region and the total population. Sensitive analysis indicated that cancer slope factor, ingestion rates of rice, aquatic products and iAs concentration in rice were the most relevant variables in the model, as indicated by their higher contribution to variance of the incremental lifetime cancer risk. We conclude that rice may be the largest contributor of iAs through food route for the Chinese people. The population from the South has greater cancer risk than that from the North and the whole population.
21632586	In this paper, recent studies on environmental radioactivity are briefly reviewed. Considering the growing dependency on nuclear energy in Asia, emphasis has been given to (14)C cycle at the ground surface including rice paddy fields and to long-range atmospheric transport of natural and anthropogenic radioactive materials. Studies on the dynamic behaviour of (14)C are being carried out and some important experimental results are becoming available for models of (14)C migration in rice paddy. Long-range atmospheric transport models have been improved substantially by using sophisticated physical models and simulation techniques to improve emergency preparedness. Although our knowledge on radon flux distribution in Asia has been improved and radon has become a more reliable atmospheric tracer, we still need more intensive measurements of exhalation flux and atmospheric concentration of radon and radium content in soil.
21633891	A series of HSP70 promoter deletion constructs was established. Analysis of beta-glucuronidase activities from the promoter deletion constructs in transient expression assays identified a cis-element, located from -493 to -308 bp upstream of the ATG start site. This element was designated as HS185 and has a crucial role in HSP70 promoter activity. HS185 has some characteristics of a miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE), such as terminal inverted repeats (TIRs) (GGTCCCACA) and a putative target site duplication. There are 362 copies of homologous sequences of HS185 in the rice genome, which are preferentially distributed to non-coding regions. Based on these sequence features, we propose that HS185 is an uncharacterized rice MITE, possibly derived from the rice transposon Mutator-like element VIII family. Further transient expression assays showed that HS185 inhibited the enhancer activity of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. These results demonstrate that not only is HS185 necessary for HSP70 promoter activity, but it also has a functional role as an insulator. This study explored new regulatory functions of non-coding repeat sequences in rice.
21633982	The study evaluated the protective effects of purple rice (Oryza sativa L.) bran extract (PRE) and its constituents, cyanidin and peonidin, against angiogenesis induced by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). The effects of VEGF and PRE were examined by in vitro tube formation assays and following 14-day co-culture of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and fibroblasts. The antiangiogenic mechanism of PRE was evaluated by VEGF-induced proliferation and migration of HUVECs and/or human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (HRMECs) and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and p38. The PRE significantly suppressed VEGF-induced tube formation, proliferation and migration in HUVECs and HRMECs as well as phosphorylation of ERK and p38. Cyanidin and peonidin also suppressed the proliferation and migration induced by VEGF. These findings indicate that PRE and anthocyanidins suppress VEGF-induced angiogenesis by inhibiting proliferation and migration and suggest that the inhibition of phosphorylated-ERK and -p38 may be involved in the underlying mechanism.
21634036	Pei'ai64S, an indica sterile variety with photoperiod and thermo-sensitive genic male sterile (PTGMS) genes, has been widely exploited for commercial seed production for "two-line" hybrid rice in China. One PTGMS gene from Pei'ai64S, pms1(t), was mapped by a strategy of bulked-extreme and recessive-class approach with simple sequence repeat (SSR) and insert and deletion (In-Del) markers. Using linkage analysis for the F(2) mapping population consisting of 320 completely male sterile individuals derived from a cross between Pei'ai64S and 93-11 (indica restorer) lines, the pms1(t) gene was delimited to the region between the RM21242 (0.2 cM) and YF11 (0.2 cM) markers on the short arm of chromosome 7. The interval containing the pms1(t) locus, which was co-segregated with RM6776, is a 101.1 kb region based on the Nipponbare rice genome. Fourteen predicted loci were found in this region by the Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR) Genomic Annotation. Based on the function of the locus LOC_Os07g12130 by bioinformatics analysis, it is predicted to encode a protein containing a Myb-like DNA-binding domain, and may process the transcript with thermosensory response. The reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) results revealed that the mRNA levels of LOC_Os07g12130 were altered in different photoperiod and temperature treatments. Thus, the LOC_Os07g12130 locus is the most likely candidate gene for pms1(t). These results may facilitate not only using the molecular marker assisted selection of PTGMS genes, but also cloning of the pms1(t) gene itself.
21635640	A seasonal rodent-borne disease surveillance program was established at Dagmar North Training Area located near the demilitarized zone, Republic of Korea, from 2001 through 2005. Selected habitats surveyed included earthen banks separating rice paddies, fighting positions along a 5 m rock-faced earthen berm, and extensive tall grasses with various degrees of herbaceous and scrub vegetation associated with dirt roads, rice paddies, ditches, ponds, or the Imjin River. Of the nine species of small mammals captured, the striped field mouse (Apodemus agrarius), the primary reservoir for Hantaan virus, was the most frequently collected, representing 92.5% of the 1,848 small mammals captured. Males were captured similarly to females during the spring and summer seasons but were captured less frequently during the fall and winter seasons. Gravid rates were highest in the fall (25.5-57.3%) with the lowest rates during the summer (0.0-2.2%). Capture rates were the lowest along earthen banks separating rice paddies (5.5%) and highest in unmanaged tall grasses and crawling vegetation (15.3-43.5%). An increased knowledge of ecological factors that impact the abundance and distribution of small mammals and the associated ectoparasites and pathogens they harbor is critical for developing accurate disease risk assessments and mitigation strategies for preventing vector- and rodent-borne diseases among soldiers training in field environments.
21635650	A total of 180 larval collection sites (e.g., rice paddies, marshes, ground pools, ponds, stream margins, and irrigation and drainage ditches) was surveyed within a 2 km radius from Warrior Base training area, 5 km south of Panmunjeom (Joint Security Area, demilitarized zone), Gyeonggi Province, Republic of Korea (ROK), from May through October, 2007 to characterize larval habitat distributions of members of the Anopheles Hyrcanus Group (An. sinensis, An. lesteri, An. pullus, An. belenrae, An. kleini, and An. sineroides). A total of 5,859 anopheline larvae was collected from 84.4% of the sites surveyed, of which 4,071 were identified to species by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using the ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer 2 (rDNA ITS2). Anopheles sinensis (52.6%) was the most frequently collected, followed by An. kleini (29.4%), An. sineroides (9.8%), An. pullus (6.7%), An. belenrae (1.1%), and An. lesteri (0.5%). Anopheles pullus and An. kleini were collected in greater proportions in May and from May - July, respectively. Few An. sinensis were collected from May - June, but it was the predominant species collected by August, and accounted for >80% of all larvae from September - October. Anopheles kleini was found in all habitats sampled; however, it was collected most frequently in young growth rice paddies, while An. sinensis was collected more frequently in mature and post-harvest paddies. Anopheles pullus was associated with pre-cultivated rice paddies, including water-filled tire ruts left from the previous fall's harvest.
21635781	Emerging knowledge of the impact of small RNAs as important cellular regulators has prompted an explosion of small transcriptome sequencing projects. Although significant progress has been made towards small RNA discovery and biogenesis in higher eukaryotes and other model organisms, knowledge in simple eukaryotes such as filamentous fungi remains limited. Here, we used 454 pyrosequencing to present a detailed analysis of the small RNA transcriptome (~ 15 - 40 nucleotides in length) from mycelia and appressoria tissues of the rice blast fungal pathogen, Magnaporthe oryzae. Small RNAs mapped to numerous nuclear and mitochondrial genomic features including repetitive elements, tRNA loci, rRNAs, protein coding genes, snRNAs and intergenic regions. For most elements, small RNAs mapped primarily to the sense strand with the exception of repetitive elements to which small RNAs mapped in the sense and antisense orientation in near equal proportions. Inspection of the small RNAs revealed a preference for U and suppression of C at position 1, particularly for antisense mapping small RNAs. In the mycelia library, small RNAs of the size 18 - 23 nt were enriched for intergenic regions and repetitive elements. Small RNAs mapping to LTR retrotransposons were classified as LTR retrotransposon-siRNAs (LTR-siRNAs). Conversely, the appressoria library had a greater proportion of 28 - 35 nt small RNAs mapping to tRNA loci, and were classified as tRNA-derived RNA fragments (tRFs). LTR-siRNAs and tRFs were independently validated by 3' RACE PCR and northern blots, respectively. Our findings suggest M. oryzae small RNAs differentially accumulate in vegetative and specialized-infection tissues and may play an active role in genome integrity and regulating growth and development.
21636088	The application of dispersive liquid-liquid microextraction (DLLME) technique for the rapid analysis of aflatoxins B(1), B(2), G(1) and G(2) in maize, rice and wheat products has been evaluated. After extraction of aflatoxins from cereal matrices with a mixture of methanol/water 8:2 (v/v), the analytes were rapidly transferred from the extract to another small volume of organic solvent, chloroform, by DLLME. Aflatoxins were determined using high performance liquid chromatography with florescence detection and photochemical post-column derivatization. Parameters affecting both extraction and DLLME procedures, such as extraction solvent, type and volume of DLLME extractant, volume of water and salt effect, were systematically investigated and optimized to achieve the best extraction efficiency. Under the optimal experimental conditions, the whole analytical method provides enrichment factors around 2.5 times and detection limits (0.01-0.17 μg kg(-1)) below the maximum levels imposed by current regulation for aflatoxins in cereals and cereal products intended for direct human consumption. Recoveries (67-92%) and repeatability (RSD<10, n=3), tested in three different cereal matrices, meet the performance criteria required by EC Regulation No. 401/2006 for the determination of the levels of mycotoxins in foodstuffs. The proposed method was successfully applied to the analysis of retail cereal products with quantitative results comparable to the immunoaffinity chromatography (IAC). The main advantages of developed method are the simplicity of operation, the rapidity to achieve a very high sample throughput and low cost.
21637426	Association analysis was applied to a panel of accessions of Embrapa Rice Core Collection (ERiCC) with 86 SSR and field data from two experiments. A clear subdivision between lowland and upland accessions was apparent, thereby indicating the presence of population structure. Thirty-two accessions with admixed ancestry were identified through structure analysis, these being discarded from association analysis, thus leaving 210 accessions subdivided into two panels. The association of yield and grain-quality traits with SSR was undertaken with a mixed linear model, with markers and subpopulation as fixed factors, and kinship matrix as a random factor. Eight markers from the two appraised panels showed significant association with four different traits, although only one (RM190) maintained the marker-trait association across years and cultivation. The significant association detected between amylose content and RM190 was in agreement with previous QTL analyses in the literature. Herein, the feasibility of undertaking association analysis in conjunction with germplasm characterization was demonstrated, even when considering low marker density. The high linkage disequilibrium expected in rice lines and cultivars facilitates the detection of marker-trait associations for implementing marker assisted selection, and the mining of alleles related to important traits in germplasm.
21637462	A series of multilocus sequence-based nuclear DNA markers was developed to infer the phylogeographical history of the Basidiomycetous fungal pathogen Rhizoctonia solani AG-1 IA infecting rice and soybean worldwide. The strategy was based on sequencing of cloned genomic DNA fragments (previously used as RFLP probes) and subsequent screening of fungal isolates to detect single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Ten primer pairs were designed based on these sequences, which resulted in PCR amplification of 200-320 bp size products and polymorphic sequences in all markers analyzed. By direct sequencing we identified both homokaryon and heterokaryon (i.e. dikaryon) isolates at each marker. Cloning the PCR products effectively estimated the allelic phase from heterokaryotic isolates. Information content varied among markers from 0.5 to 5.9 mutations per 100 bp. Thus, the former RFLP codominant probes were successfully converted into six distinctively variable sequence-based nuclear DNA markers. Rather than discarding low polymorphism loci, the combination of these distinctively variable anonymous nuclear markers would constitute an asset for the unbiased estimate of the phylogeographical parameters such as population sizes and divergent times, providing a more reliable species history that shaped the current population structure of R. solani AG-1 IA.
21637485	A large set of candidate nucleotide-binding site (NBS)-encoding genes related to disease resistance was identified in the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genome. These resistance (R) genes were characterized based on their structural diversity, physical chromosomal location and phylogenetic relationships. Based on their N-terminal motifs and leucine-rich repeats (LRR), 50 non-regular NBS genes and 224 regular NBS genes were identified in 274 candidate NBS genes. The regular NBS genes were classified into ten types: CNL, CN, CNLX, CNX, CNXL, CXN, NX, N, NL and NLX. The vast majority (97%) of NBS genes occurred in gene clusters, indicating extensive gene duplication in the evolution of S. bicolor NBS genes. Analysis of the S. bicolor NBS phylogenetic tree revealed two major clades. Most NBS genes were located at the distal tip of the long arms of the ten sorghum chromosomes, a pattern significantly different from rice and Arabidopsis, the NBS genes of which have a random chromosomal distribution.
21637489	A triploid (2n = 3x = 36) rice plant was obtained by screening a twin seedling population in which each seed germinated to two or three sprouts that were then crossed with diploid plants. One diploid plant was chosen among the various F(1) progenies and developed into an F (2) population via self-pollination. Compared with the control variety Shanyou 63, this F (2) population had a stable agronomical performance in field trials, as confirmed by the F-test. The stability of the F (2) population was further substantiated by molecular analysis with simple sequence repeat markers. Specifically, of 160 markers assayed, 37 (covering all 12 chromosomes) were polymorphic between the parental lines. Testing the F (1) hybrid individually with these markers showed that each PCR product had only a single band instead of two bands from each parent. The bands were identical to either maternal (23 markers) or paternal (eight markers) bands or distinct from both parents (six markers). The amplified bands of all 60 randomly selected F (2) plants were uniform and identical to those of the F (1) hybrid. These results suggest that the F (1) plant is a non-segregating hybrid and that a stable F (2) population was obtained. This novel system provides an efficient means for shortening the cycle of hybrid rice seed production.
21637772	Mutants in the rice PLASTOCHRON 3 and maize VIVIPAROUS 8 genes have been shown to have reduced dormancy and ABA levels. In this study we used several mutants in the orthologous gene ALTERED MERISTEM PROGRAM 1 (AMP1) to determine its role in seed dormancy in Arabidopsis. Here we report that there are accession-specific effects of mutations in AMP1. In one accession, amp1 mutants produce seeds with higher dormancy, while those in two other accessions produce seeds of lower dormancy. These accession-specific effects of mutating AMP1 were shown to extend to ABA levels. We assayed global gene transcription differences in seeds of wild-type and mutant from two accessions demonstrating opposing phenotypes. The transcript changes observed indicate that the amp1 mutation shifts the seed transcriptome from a dormant into an after-ripened state. Specific changes in gene expression in the mutants give insight into the direct and indirect effects that may be contributing to the opposing dormancy phenotypes observed, and reveal a role for AMP1 in the acquisition and/or maintenance of seed dormancy in Arabidopsis.
21637806	Thylakoid membrane complexes of rice (Oryza sativa L.) play crucial roles in growth and crop production. Understanding of protein interactions within the complex would provide new insights into photosynthesis. Here, a new "Double-Strips BN/SDS-PAGE" method was employed to separate thylakoid membrane complexes in order to increase the protein abundance on 2D-gels and to facilitate the identification of hydrophobic transmembrane proteins. A total of 58 protein spots could be observed and subunit constitution of these complexes exhibited on 2D-gels. The generality of this new approach was confirmed using thylakoid membrane from spinach (Spinacia oleracea) and pumpkin (Cucurita spp). Furthermore, the proteins separated from rice thylakoid membrane were identified by the mass spectrometry (MS). The stromal ridge proteins PsaD and PsaE were identified both in the holo- and core- PSI complexes of rice. Using molecular dynamics simulation to explore the recognition mechanism of these subunits, we showed that salt bridge interactions between residues R19 of PsaC and E168 of PasD as well as R75 of PsaC and E91 of PsaD played important roles in the stability of the complex. This stromal ridge subunits interaction was also supported by the subsequent analysis of the binding free energy, the intramolecular distances and the intramolecular energy.
21637817	DNA topoisomerase VI from Archaea, a heterotetrameric complex composed of two TopVIA and two TopVIB subunits, is involved in altering DNA topology during replication, transcription and chromosome segregation by catalyzing DNA strand transfer through transient double-strand breaks. The sequenced yeast and animal genomes encode only one homologue of the archaeal TopVIA subunit, namely Spo11, and no homologue of the archaeal TopVIB subunit. In yeast, Spo11 is essential for initiating meiotic recombination and this function appears conserved among other eukaryotes. In contrast to yeast and animals, studies in Arabidopsis and rice have identified three Spo11/TopVIA homologues and one TopVIB homologue in plants. Here, we further identified two novel Spo11/TopVIA homologues (named OsSpo11-4 and OsSpo11-5, respectively) that exist just in the monocot model plant Oryza sativa, indicating that at least five Spo11/TopVIA homologues are present in the rice genome. To reveal the biochemical function of the two novel Spo11/TopVIA homologues, we first examined the interactions among OsSpo11-1, OsSpo11-4, OsSpo11-5, and OsTopVIB by yeast two-hybrid assay. The results showed that OsSpo11-4 and OsTopVIB can self-interact strongly and among the 3 examined OsSpo11 proteins, only OsSpo11-4 interacted with OsTopVIB. Pull-down assay confirmed the interaction between OsSpo11-4 and OsTopVIB, which indicates that OsSpo11-4 may interact with OsTopVIB in vivo. Further in vitro enzymatic analysis revealed that among the above 4 proteins, only OsSpo11-4 exhibited double-strand DNA cleavage activity and its enzymatic activity appears dependent on Mg(2+) and independent of OsTopVIB, despite its interaction with OsTopVIB. We further analyzed the biological function of OsSpo11-4 by RNA interference and found that down-regulated expression of OsSpo11-4 led to defects in male meiosis, indicating OsSpo11-4 is required for meiosis.
21637976	The anaerobic thermophilic bacterium, Clostridium thermocellum, is a potent cellulolytic microorganism that produces large extracellular multienzyme complexes called cellulosomes. To isolate C. thermocellum organisms that possess effective cellulose-degrading ability, new thermophilic cellulolytic strains were screened from more than 800 samples obtained mainly from agriculture residues in Thailand using microcrystalline cellulose as a carbon source. A new strain, C. thermocellum S14, having high cellulose-degrading ability was isolated from bagasse paper sludge. Cellulosomes prepared from S14 demonstrated faster degradation of microcrystalline cellulose, and 3.4- and 5.6-fold greater Avicelase activity than those from C. thermocellum ATCC27405 and JW20 (ATCC31449), respectively. Scanning electron microscopic analysis showed that S14 had unique cell surface features with few protuberances in contrast to the type strains. In addition, the cellulosome of S14 was resistant to inhibition by cellobiose that is a major end product of cellulose hydrolysis. Saccharification tests conducted using rice straw soaked with sodium hydroxide indicated the cellulosome of S14 released approximately 1.5-fold more total sugars compared to that of ATCC27405. This newly isolated S14 strain has the potential as an enzyme resource for effective lignocellulose degradation.
21637999	Appropriate plant height is crucial for lodging resistance to improve the rice crop yield. The application of semi-dwarf 1 led to the green revolution in the 1960s, by predominantly increasing the rice yield. However, the frequent use of single sd1 gene sources may cause genetic vulnerability to pests and diseases. Identifying useful novel semi-dwarf genes is important for the genetic manipulation of plant architecture in practical rice breeding. In this study, introgression lines derived from two parents contrasting in plant height, Zhenshan 97 and Pokkali were employed to locate a gene with a large effect on plant height by the bulk segregant analysis method. A major gene, ph1, was mapped to a region closely linked to sd1 on chromosome 1; the additive effects of ph1 were more than 50 cm on the plant height and 2 days on the heading date in a BC(4)F(2) population and its progeny. ph1 was then fine mapped to BAC AP003227. Gene annotation indicated that LOC_OS01g65990 encoding a chitin-inducible gibberellin-responsive protein (CIGR), which belongs to the GRAS family, might be the right candidate gene of ph1. Co-segregation analysis of the candidate gene-derived marker finally confirmed its identity as the candidate gene. A higher expression level of the CIGR was detected in all the tested tissues in tall plants compared to those of short plants, especially in the young leaf sheath containing elongating tissues, which indicated its importance role in regulating plant height. ph1 showed a tremendous genetic effect on plant height, which is distinct from sd1 and could be a new resource for breeding semi-dwarf varieties.
21638061	SnRK2 (sucrose non-fermenting 1-related protein kinases 2) represents a unique family of protein kinase in regulating signaling transduction in plants. Although the regulatory mechanisms of SnRK2 have been well demonstrated in Arabidopsis thaliana, their functions in maize are still unknown. In our study, we cloned an SnRK2 gene from maize, ZmSAPK8, which encoded a putative homolog of the rice SAPK8 protein. ZmSAPK8 had two copies in the maize genome and harbored eight introns in its coding region. We demonstrated that ZmSAPK8 expressed differentially in various organs of maize plants and was up-regulated by high-salinity and drought treatment. A green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged ZmSAPK8 showed subcellular localization in the cell membrane, cytoplasm and nucleus. In vitro kinase assays indicated that ZmSAPK8 preferred Mn(2+) to Mg(2+) as cofactor for phosphorylation, and Ser-182 and Thr-183 in activation loop was important for its activity. Heterologous overexpression of ZmSAPK8 in Arabidopsis could significantly strengthen tolerance to salt stress. Under salt treatment, ZmSAPK8-overexpressed transgenic plants exhibited higher germination rate and proline content, low electrolyte leakage and higher survival rate than wild type. Further analysis indicated that transgenic plants showed increased transcription of the stress-related genes, RD29A, RD29B, RAB18, ABI1, DREB2A and P5CS1, under high-salinity conditions. The results demonstrated that ZmSAPK8 was involved in diverse stress signal transduction. Moreover, no obvious adverse effects on growth and development in the ZmSAPK8-overexpressed transgenic plants implied that ZmSAPK8 was potentially useful in transgenic breeding to improve salt tolerance in crops.
21638537	A practical course was given to undergraduate biology students enrolled in the elective course "Introduction to Genetic Engineering" at the Federal University of São Carlos (UFSCar), São Paulo, Brazil. The goal of the course was to teach current molecular biology tools applied to a real research situation that could be reported by the students themselves. The purpose was to produce a plant recombinant protein and demonstrate a heretofore unreported biological activity. Cystatins, natural inhibitors of cysteine proteases, were proposed for these studies. Initially, the students searched for plant cystatin cDNA sequences in the NCBI databases and selected the Oryzacystatin I gene (ocI) from rice, Oriza sativa, as the target gene for this study. Total RNA was extracted from rice-germinating seeds and primers containing restriction sites for NdeI and EcoRI were designed based on the ocI cDNA sequence and then used to amplify the open reading frame (ORF). RT-PCR amplification provided a band of the expected size for ocI ORF (309 bp). The PCR product was cut with NdeI and EcoRI restriction enzymes and cloned directly in the pET28a expression vector digested with the same enzymes. A pET28-ocI recombinant clone was selected, checked by sequencing, and used to transform Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) expression strain. After induction of the bacteria with isopropylthiogalactoside and cellular disruption, the His-tagged OCI protein, present mainly in the soluble fraction, was purified by affinity chromatography in a nickel column. The purified protein was successfully used to inhibit fungal growth (Trichoderma reesei). The results were discussed extensively and the students contributed to the writing of this article, of which they are co-authors.
21639188	A plug electroosmotic velocity profile is generally assumed to be characteristic of capillary electrochromatography. However, this ideal plug flow may be illusive in some experiments with packed-capillary columns due to overlap of electrical double layers in flow channels. We report here a theoretical analysis of the double-layer overlap effects in packed-capillary columns, which is based on Rice and Whitehead's theory of electroosmotic flow combined with a capillary tube model for porous packing. The results show that the electroosmotic velocity under the influence of double-layer overlap depends strongly on the operating parameters, which increases with the column porosity, the particle diameter, and the electrolyte concentration.
21639844	Dehydrins are groups of plant proteins that have been shown to response to various environmental stimuli such as dehydration, elevated salinity, and low temperature. However, their roles in plant defense against microbes have not been demonstrated. In an attempt to discover plant antimicrobial proteins, we have screened a rice cDNA library and isolated several cDNAs coding for dehydrins. Protein extracts from Escherichia coli expressing these cDNAs were tested for their activity against Gram-positive bacteria (Bacillus pumilus, B. subtilis, Staphylococcus aureus, and Sarcina lutea) and Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia coli and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae). The results indicate that the crude protein extracts exhibited antibacterial activities against the Gram-positive bacteria. However, dehydrins purified by immunoaffinity chromatography were not active against the bacteria. To pinpoint the dehydrin peptides that were responsible for the bactericidal activity, we expressed DNA sequences coding for truncated dehydrins containing either K- or S-segment and found that K-segment peptides, and not S-segment, were responsible for the antibacterial activities against Gram-positive bacteria. Antibacterial assay with synthetic K-segments indicated that the peptides inhibited growth of B. pumilus with minimum inhibition concentration and minimum bactericidal concentration of 130 and 400 μg/ml, respectively.
21640170	Gibberellin (GA) is an essential phytohormone that controls many aspects of plant development. To enhance our understanding of GA metabolism in maize, we intensively screened and identified 27 candidate genes encoding the seven GA metabolic enzymes including ent-copalyl diphosphate synthase (CPS), ent-kaurene synthase (KS), ent-kaurene oxidase (KO), ent-kaurenoic acid oxidase (KAO), GA 20-oxidase (GA20ox), GA 3-oxidase (GA3ox), and GA 2-oxidase (GA2ox), using all available public maize databases. The results indicate that maize genome contains three CPS, four KS, two KO and one KAO genes, and most of them are arranged separately on the maize genome, which differs from that in rice. In addition, the enzymes catalyzing the later steps (ZmGA20ox, ZmGA3ox and ZmGA2ox) are also encoded by gene families in maize, but GA3ox enzyme is likely to be encoded by single gene. Expression profiling analysis exhibited that transcripts of 15 GA metabolic genes could be detected during maize seed germination, which provides further evidence for the notion that increased synthesis of active GA in the embryo is required for triggering germination events. Moreover, a variety of temporal genes expression patterns of GA metabolic genes were detected, which revealed the complexity of underlying mechanism for GA regulated seed germination.
21641864	Some oligopeptides and amino acids have a strong influence on the sensory qualities of sake, but the formation process of such compounds in sake mash has not been well elucidated. In this study, we investigated the formation process of bitter-tasting peptides derived from rice proteins in sake mash, because knowledge about their formation may contribute to the quality control of sake. We analyzed rice protein hydrolysates in sake mash, as well as in the enzymatic digest of steamed rice grains digested by either sake-koji or by crude enzyme extracted from sake-koji. SDS-PAGE showed that a smaller amount of polypeptides (>M.W. 10,000) accumulated in the supernatant of sake mash than in either enzymatic digest. The concentration of peptides in the supernatant of sake mash increased gradually from the early stages of fermentation. Five bitter-tasting peptides (No. 9, <QLFNPS; No. 13, <QLFNPSTNP; No. 17, <QLFNPSTNPWH; No. 18, <QLFNPSTNPWHSP; No. 20, <QLFGPNVNPWHNP), which were previously found in sake mash, were not found in significant amounts in sake-koji. On the other hand, these peptides accumulated at the early stages of both sake mash fermentation and the enzymatic digests, although the levels in sake mash were higher than those in the digests. The present study demonstrated that the 5 bitter-tasting peptides formed in high concentrations when steamed rice grains were digested under conditions of sake mash fermentation with yeast.
21641919	Bioassay-guided fractionation of an EtOH extract of Monascus purpureus-fermented rice led to the isolation of two new steroids (22S, 23R, 24S)-20β,23α,25α-trihydroxy-16,22-epoxy-4,6,8(14)-trienergosta-3-one (1), the first example of a steroid possessing both a conjugated triene ketone system and a fused 4H-furan ring side chain within one molecule, and (22E, 24R)-3β,5α-dihydroxyergosta-23-methyl-7,22-dien-6-one (2), as well as two known compounds (22E, 24R)-3β,5α-dihydroxyergosta-7,22-dien-6-one (3) and (22E, 24R)-6β-methoxy-ergosta-7,22-diene-3β,5α-diol (4). Their structures were assigned by detailed interpretation of HRESIMS, 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopic data. The absolute stereochemistry of 1 was determined by single-crystal X-ray crystallography while the absolute stereochemistry of 2 was established by CD. Compounds 1-4 showed cytotoxic activity against the lung adenocarcinoma (A549) with IC(50) values of 0.08, 0.94, 12.6 and 13.5 μM, respectively. In addition, compounds 1 and 2 exhibited moderate activities against human ovarian cancer (A2780), with IC(50) values of 2.8 and 5.1 μM.
21642236	Changes in actual efficiency of PS II photochemistry, non-photochemical quenching (NPQ), content of xanthophylls and kinetics of de-epoxidation were studied in ABA-fed and non-ABA-fed leaves of rice and cabbage under NaCl stress. Salt stress induced more progressive decrease in actual efficiency of PS II photochemistry (ФPS II), higher reduction state of PS II, and a small significant increase in NPQ in NaCl-sensitive rice plants as compared with NaCl-tolerant cabbage plants, whereas exogenously supplied ABA alleviated the decrease in actual efficiency of PS II photochemistry (ФPS II), induced a lower reduction state of PS II, and caused higher capacity of NPQ in ABA-fed plants than in non-ABA-fed plants. As a result, there were higher activities of photosynthetic electron transport, higher capacity of energy dissipation, and lower cumulation of excess light in cabbage than in rice plants, and in ABA-fed leaves than in non-ABA-fed leaves. The effect of ABA was more efficient in cabbage than in rice plants. Addition of exogenous ABA resulted in enhancement of the size of the xanthophyll cycle pool, promotion of de-epoxidation of the xanthophyll cycle components, and a rise in the level of NPQ by altering the kinetics of de-epoxidation of the xanthophyll cycle. Protection from photodamage appears to be achieved by coordinated contributions by exogenous ABA and xanthophyll cycle-mediated NPQ. This variety of photoprotective mechanisms may be essential for conferring photodamage tolerance under NaCl stress.
21643239	The light scattering of rough metallic surfaces with roughness levels ranging from a few to several hundred nanometers is modeled and compared to experimental data. Different modeling approaches such as the classical Rayleigh-Rice vector perturbation theory and the new Generalized Harvey-Shack theory are used and critically assessed with respect to ranges of validity, accuracy, and practicability. Based on theoretical calculations and comparisons with Rigorous Coupled Wave Analysis for sinusoidal phase gratings, it is demonstrated that the approximate scatter models yield surprisingly accurate results and at the same time provide insight into light scattering phenomena. For stochastically rough metal surfaces, the predicted angles resolved scattering is compared to experimental results at 325 nm, 532 nm, and 1064 nm. In addition, the possibilities of retrieving roughness information from measured scattering data for different roughness regimes are discussed.
21643398	Scattering effects from microtopographic surface roughness are merely nonparaxial diffraction phenomena resulting from random phase variations in the reflected or transmitted wavefront. Rayleigh-Rice, Beckmann-Kirchhoff. or Harvey-Shack surface scatter theories are commonly used to predict surface scatter effects. Smooth-surface and/or paraxial approximations have severely limited the range of applicability of each of the above theoretical treatments. A recent linear systems formulation of nonparaxial scalar diffraction theory applied to surface scatter phenomena resulted first in an empirically modified Beckmann-Kirchhoff surface scatter model, then a generalized Harvey-Shack theory that produces accurate results for rougher surfaces than the Rayleigh-Rice theory and for larger incident and scattered angles than the classical Beckmann-Kirchhoff and the original Harvey-Shack theories. These new developments simplify the analysis and understanding of nonintuitive scattering behavior from rough surfaces illuminated at arbitrary incident angles.
21643752	In the present study Dof1 gene of finger millet was cloned and sequenced. In silico analysis reveals 61% identity with the Sorghum bicolor and 57% identity with the Oryza sativa Dof1 sequence. A comparative analysis of gene sequences from different crops and three finger millet genotypes {Brown (PRM-1), Golden (PRM-701) and White (PRM-801)} differing in grain colour, yield and photosynthetic efficiency showed a high degree of sequence identity of Dof1 sequence gene ranging from 22 to 70% as evident from distance matrix of the built phylogenetic tree showing two major clusters. A total of five conserved motifs were observed in Dof1 sequences of different cereals. Motif 1 with multilevel consensus sequence CKNCRRYWTKGGAMRNVPVG contains zinc finger Dof domain. Motif 3 and motif 5 contains protein kinase phosphorylation site. Motif 2 contains Dof domain and zinc finger N-glycosylation site while motif 4 is involved in Zinc finger type profiling. Further, we studied the spatial distribution of Dof1 gene in three vegetative tissues (root, stem and flag leaf) as well as four stages of developing spikes (S1, S2, S3 and S4) of the three finger millet genotypes using qualitative and quantitative PCR based approaches. Physiological parameters (plant height, leaf area, chlorophyll content, SPAD value and photosynthetic efficiency) at the time of flowering was found to be highest in white (PRM-801) genotype followed by golden (PRM-701) and brown (PRM-1) genotype. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed that the expression of Dof1 is highest in leaves and lowest in roots, which suggests its role in regulation of photosynthesis-related genes and carbon skeleton synthesis. Also at grain maturity stage, expression of Dof1 was higher in white (PRM-801) genotype followed by golden (PRM-701) and brown (PRM-1) genotype. The result is suggestive of Dof1 role in the accumulation of grain protein and yield attribute through regulation of key enzymes involved in source to sink relationship during grain filling stage.
21644578	Global crop production is causing pressure on water and land resources in many places. In addition to local resource management, the related environmental impacts of commodities traded along international supply chains need to be considered and managed accordingly. For this purpose, we calculate the specific water consumption and land use for the production of 160 crops and crop groups, covering most harvested mass on global cropland. We quantify indicators for land and water scarcity with high geospatial resolution. This facilitates spatially explicit crop-specific resource management and regionalized life cycle assessment of processed products. The vast cultivation of irrigated wheat, rice, cotton, maize, and sugar cane, which are major sources of food, bioenergy, and fiber, drives worldwide water scarcity. According to globally averaged production, substituting biofuel for crude oil would have a lower impact on water resources than substituting cotton for polyester. For some crops, water scarcity impacts are inversely related to land resource stress, illustrating that water consumption is often at odds with land use. On global average, maize performs better than rice and wheat in the combined land/water assessment. High spatial variability of water and land use related impacts underlines the importance of appropriate site selection for agricultural activities.
21644673	A digital micromirror device (DMD) has been incorporated into a novel spectrometer for use in analytical atomic spectrometry. The device can be taken from a commercial computer projector. A protective glass window covering the DMD chip limits the viewable wavelengths to the visible range. The DMD is used to project an image of the light source onto the exit plane of a flat-field spectrograph. A single photomultiplier tube is used for detection. The high switching rate of the micromirrors (15 μs) enables rapid full-spectrum capture, wavelength-modulation, source-modulation, fast narrow-wavelength window scans, and rapid-wavelength "jumping." Calcium, sodium, and potassium have been determined in several standard reference materials (tomato leaves, bovine liver, rice flour, total diet) by flame atomic absorption and emission spectrometry. Absorption sensitivities for each element are near the 0.02 μg/mL level, and detection limits for both absorption and emission are near the 0.01 μg/mL level. Elemental recoveries were within 10% of certified values for most reference materials.
21645000	The RNA binding protein, flowering control locus A, (FCA) regulates flowering in rice and Arabidopsis. FCA interacts with FY to auto-regulate its own transcripts as well as to control flowering by downregulating flowering locus C (FLC). We report the cloning and characterization of the gamma (γ) isoform of FCA from barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. McLeod). The deduced protein contained two RNA recognition motifs (RRMs), a glycine-rich region at the N-terminal end, a polyglutamine region immediately downstream of a WW domain. Barley FCA had greater protein sequence homology to wheat and rice FCA than to its Arabidopsis homolog. In developing barley embryos, FCA transcripts could be detected from 2 days after pollination (DAP) up to 40 DAP. FCA transcript levels in mature barley embryo were more abundant in non-germinated than in germinated seeds, with the levels declining as germination progressed. ABA inhibition of germination inhibited the decline of barley embryo FCA. Transient co-expression of FCA or a truncated FCA (lacking RRM) with maize VP1 promoter or wheat Em gene promoter in barley aleurone protoplasts led to increased VP1 and Em gene promoter activity. Barley FCA or truncated FCA localized in the nucleus suggested its role in gene regulation.
21645201	High-throughput sequencing of pooled DNA was applied to polymorphism discovery in candidate genes involved in starch synthesis. This approach employed semi- to long-range PCR (LR-PCR) followed by next-generation sequencing technology. A total of 17 rice starch synthesis genes encoding seven classes of enzymes, including ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), granule starch synthase (GBSS), soluble starch synthase (SS), starch branching enzyme (BE), starch debranching enzyme (DBE) and starch phosphorylase (SPHOL) and phosphate translocator (GPT1) from 233 genotypes were PCR amplified using semi- to long-range PCR. The amplification products were equimolarly pooled and sequenced using massively parallel sequencing technology (MPS). By detecting single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)/Indels in both coding and noncoding areas of the genes, we identified genetic differences and characterized the SNP/Indel variation and distribution patterns among individual starch candidate genes. Approximately, 60.9 million reads were generated, of which 54.8 million (90%) mapped to the reference sequences. The average coverage rate ranged from 12,708 to 38,300 times for SSIIa and SSIIIb, respectively. SNPs and single/multiple-base Indels were analysed in a total assembled length of 116,403 bp. In total, 501 SNPs and 113 Indels were detected across the 17 starch-related loci. The ratio of synonymous to nonsynonymous SNPs (Ka/Ks) test indicated GBSSI and isoamylase 1 (ISA1) as the least diversified (most purified) and conservative genes as the studied populations have been through cycles of selection. This report demonstrates a useful strategy for screening germplasm by MPS to discover variants in a specific target group of genes.
21645694	Multivariate statistical design modeling and the Derringer-Suich desirability function analysis were applied to micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) results with anionic surfactant to separate carbohydrates (CHOs) in different food matrices. This strategy has been studied with success to analyze compounds of difficult separation, but has not been explored for carbohydrates. Six procedures for the analysis of different sets of CHOs present in six food matrices were developed. The effects of pH, electrolyte and surfactant concentrations on the separation of the compounds were investigated using a central composite design requiring 17 experiments. The simultaneous optimization of the responses for separation of six sets of CHOs was performed employing empirical models for prediction of optimal resolution conditions in six matrices, condensed milk, orange juices, rice bran, red wine, roasted and ground coffee and breakfast cereal samples. The results indicate good separation for the samples, with appropriate detectability and selectivity, short analysis time, low reagent cost and little waste generation, demonstrating that the proposed technique is a viable alternative for carbohydrate analysis in foods.
21646016	Mercury adsorbents were derived from waste biohydrogen-generation barley husk and rice husk via carbonization, steam activation, and sulfur impregnation at 300-650°C. The samples derived from agricultural residues showed a greater Hg(0) adsorption than that of a coal-based activated carbon, confirming the feasibility of resource recovery of these agricultural residuals for low-concentration gaseous Hg adsorption. Sulfur impregnation reduced both the surface area and pore volume of the samples, with lower temperature causing a greater decrease. Elevating the impregnation temperature increased the organic sulfur contents, suggesting that in addition to elemental sulfur, organic sulfur may also act as active sites to improve Hg(0) adsorption. Oxygen and sulfur functional groups accompanying the microporous structures may account for the enhancing Hg(0) adsorption of the raw and sulfur-treated samples, respectively. The pseudo-second-order model can best describe the chemisorption characteristics, implying that Hg(0) adsorption on the samples was in a bimolecular reaction form.
21646115	Embolism reversal in rice plants was studied by testing the plant's ability to refill embolized conduits while xylem pressures were substantially negative. Intact, potted plants were water-stressed to a xylem pressure of -1.88 ± 0.1 MPa and a 66.3 ± 3.8% loss of xylem conductivity (PLC) by cavitation. Stressed plants were carefully rewatered, allowing xylem pressure to rise, but not above the theoretical threshold of c. -0.15 MPa for embolism collapse. Despite xylem pressures being more negative than this threshold, the PLC fell significantly (28.5 ± 5.6%), indicating the refilling of vessels. Above c. -1.0 MPa, almost all plants regained their maximum hydraulic conductivity. Dye uptake experiments showed the same pattern of embolism refilling despite negative pressure. Refilling was prevented in plants that were light-starved for 5 d, suggesting the unknown mechanism is dependent on metabolic energy. Results are among the first showing that herbaceous plants can reverse embolism without bulk xylem pressures rising near or above atmospheric.
21646172	The phylogeny and evolutionary history of the rice tribe (Oryzeae) were explored using sequences of five DNA fragments (matK, trnL, nad1, Adh2, and GPA1) from chloroplast, mitochondrial, and nuclear genomes. Results indicate that (1) Oryzeae is monophyletic and falls into two main clades corresponding to the traditionally recognized subtribes; (2) previous recognition of three monotypic genera (Hydrochloa, Porteresia, and Prosphytochloa) is not justified; and (3) close affinities of the monoecious genera are not supported, suggesting the possibility of multiple origins of unisexual florets. Based on the magnitude of matK and GPA1 sequence divergence, we suggest that Oryza and Leersia branched off from the remaining genera of Oryzeae ∼20 million years ago (mya), and separated from each other ∼14 mya. A divergence time of ∼9 mya is obtained for the most basal split within Oryza. These estimates suggest that Oryzeae diverged during the Miocene, and thus imply that long-distance dispersal appears to be one of the important factors in the diversification of the tribe.
21646530	The semidwarf phenotype has been extensively selected during modern crop breeding as an agronomically important trait. Introduction of the semidwarf gene, semi-dwarf1 (sd1), which encodes a gibberellin biosynthesis enzyme, made significant contributions to the "green revolution" in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Here we report that SD1 was involved not only in modern breeding including the green revolution, but also in early steps of rice domestication. We identified two SNPs in O. sativa subspecies (ssp.) japonica SD1 as functional nucleotide polymorphisms (FNPs) responsible for shorter culm length and low gibberellin biosynthetic activity. Genetic diversity analysis among O. sativa ssp. japonica and indica, along with their wild ancestor O. rufipogon Griff, revealed that these FNPs clearly differentiate the japonica landrace and O. rufipogon. We also found a dramatic reduction in nucleotide diversity around SD1 only in the japonica landrace, not in the indica landrace or O. rufipogon. These findings indicate that SD1 has been subjected to artificial selection in rice evolution and that the FNPs participated in japonica domestication, suggesting that ancient humans already used the green revolution gene.
21648953	A large set of quasi-classical, direct dynamics trajectory simulations were performed for decomposition of 1,5-dinitrobiuret (DNB) over a temperature range from 4000 to 6000 K, aimed at providing insight into DNB decomposition mechanisms. The trajectories revealed various decomposition paths and reproduced the products (including HNCO, N(2)O, NO(2), NO, and water) observed in DNB pyrolysis experiments. Using trajectory results as a guide, structures of intermediate complexes and transition states that might be important for decomposition were determined using density functional theory calculations. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory was then utilized to examine behaviors of the energized reactant and intermediates and to determine unimolecular rates for crossing various transition states. According to RRKM predictions, the dominant initial decomposition path of energized DNB corresponds to elimination of HNNO(2)H via a concerted mechanism where the molecular decomposition is accompanied with intramolecular H-atom transfer from the central nitrogen to the terminal nitro oxygen. Other important paths correspond to elimination of NO(2) and H(2)NNO(2). NO(2) elimination is a simple N-N bond scission process. Formation and elimination of nitramide is, however, dynamically complicated, requiring twisting a -NHNO(2) group out of the molecular plane, followed by an intramolecular reaction to form nitramide before its elimination. These two paths become significant at temperatures above 1500 K, accounting for >17% of DNB decomposition at 2000 K. This work demonstrates that quasi-classical trajectory simulations, in conjunction with electronic structure and RRKM calculations, are able to extract mechanisms, kinetics, dynamics and product branching ratios for the decomposition of complex energetic molecules and to predict how they vary with decomposition temperature.
21650030	In order to investigate the effects of pyrolysis conditions on bio-oil production from biomass in molten salt, experiments of biomass pyrolysis were carried out in a self-designed reactor in which the molten salt ZnCl2-KCl (with mole ratio 7/6) was selected as heat carrier, catalyst and dispersion agent. The effects of metal salt added into ZnCl2-KCl and biomass material on biomass pyrolysis were discussed, and the main compositions of bio-oil were determined by GC-MS. Metal salt added into molten salt could affect pyrolysis production yields remarkably. Lanthanon salt could enhance bio-oil yield and decrease water content in bio-oil, when mole fraction of 5.0% LaCl3 was added, bio-oil yield could reach up to 32.0%, and water content of bio-oil could reduce to 61.5%. The bio-oil and char yields were higher when rice straw was pyrolysed, while gas yield was higher when rice husk was used. Metal salts showed great selectivity on compositions of bio-oil. LiCl and FeCl2 promoted biomass to pyrolyse into smaller molecular weight compounds. CrCl3, CaCl2 and LaCl3 could restrain second pyrolysis of bio-oil. The research provided a scientific reference for production of bio-oil from biomass pyrolysis in molten salt.
21652483	American wild-rice (Zizania palustris var. palustris) has served as a staple for indigenous North Americans for thousands of years, but has had significant habitat losses in recent centuries. We investigated genetic variability among 17 wild-rice populations in northern Wisconsin using 13 isozyme markers. We then compared these genetic patterns to differences in habitat and population characteristics and phenotypic variation in plant growth and reproduction across sites. Wild-rice's mean genetic diversity (0.15) is moderate compared to wind-pollinated outcrossers but lower than the mean (0.20) reported for the Poaceae. Estimated inbreeding coefficients within populations (f) average 0.12 but vary greatly among the populations (from -0.44-0.52), suggesting heterogeneous population histories. Larger populations in larger lakes express higher levels of genetic variability and smaller inbreeding coefficients than smaller or more isolated populations. The number of panicles per plant is also higher in populations with greater genetic variability. Estimated genetic differentiation among the 17 populations (F(ST)) was high (0.30), suggesting limited gene flow among drainages. Wild-rice population size and degree of isolation have opposing effects on its genetic variability, and plant performance is positively associated with genetic variability.
21652489	There are two forms of β-amylase in the Triticeae crop plants wheat, barley, and rye: an endosperm-specific form encoded by two or three closely linked genes, and a tissue-ubiquitous form encoded by a single gene. Both rice and corn have one ubiquitously expressed form encoded by a single gene. This study focuses on two phylogenetic analyses of β-amylase gene sequences. First, a phylogenetic analysis of coding sequences from wheat, barley, rye, rice, and corn was expected to clarify the relationship between the endosperm-specific and tissue-ubiquitous forms of the protein. Instead, it illustrates possible effects of distant outgroups, based on conflicting patterns of character state variation consistent with different root positions. Next, a broad sample of the monogenomic Triticeae was included in a phylogenetic analysis based on sequences from a portion of the tissue-ubiquitous β-amylase gene. The results were compared to existing Triticeae gene trees, among which extensive conflict had been noted in the past. One additional gene tree has not completely clarified the complexity of the group, but has shed additional light on reticulate phylogenetic patterns within the tribe, including relationships involving Eremopyrum, Thinopyrum, and the Triticum/Aegilops group.
21652533	Ever since the discovery of C(4) photosynthesis in the mid-1960s, plant biologists have envisaged the introduction of the C(4) photosynthetic pathway into C(3) crops such as rice and soybeans. Recent advances in genomics capabilities, and new evolutionary and developmental studies indicate that C(4) engineering will be feasible in the next few decades. Furthermore, better understanding of the function of C(4) photosynthesis provides new ways to improve existing C(4) crops and bioenergy species, for example by creating varieties with ultra-high water and nitrogen use efficiencies. In the case of C(4) engineering, the main enzymes of the C(4) metabolic cycle have already been engineered into various C(3) plants. In contrast, knowledge of the genes controlling Kranz anatomy lags far behind. Combining traditional genetics, high-throughput sequencing technologies, systems biology, bioinformatics, and the use of the new C(4) model species Setaria viridis, the discovery of the key genes controlling the expression of C(4) photosynthesis can be dramatically accelerated. Sustained investment in the research areas directly related to C(4) engineering has the potential for substantial return in the decades to come, primarily by increasing crop production at a time when global food supplies are predicted to fall below world demand.
21653504	We developed microsatellite markers for Schoenoplectus juncoides, a weed found in rice paddy fields in eastern Asia. Ten dinucleotide microsatellite loci were isolated, and genetic variability within and among local populations were characterized. The number of alleles per locus ranged from 2 to 6 with a mean of 3.6. Expected heterozygosity per locus ranged from 0.067 to 0.471, whereas observed heterozygosity showed much lower values ranging from 0.000 to 0.083. Most of the loci showed significant deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and high inbreeding coefficient values (0.525-1.000). All the 10 microsatellite loci displayed polymorphism within and among populations. These loci are useful genetic markers for microevolution and ecological studies of S. juncoides populations.
21653576	Measures of dietary patterns have been increasingly used to capture the complex nature of dietary intake. Few studies have investigated the impact of specific dietary patterns on bone health. Areal bone mineral density (BMD) at the lumbar spine and total hip and total body bone mineral content (BMC) were measured using DXA in Australian women aged 18-65 y (n = 527). Dietary patterns were assessed using a 4-d food diary and factor analysis. Scores were calculated based on the amount of each food consumed in the pattern and the weightings determined by factor analysis. Analysis was conducted using generalized estimating equation methods. Factor analysis revealed 5 dietary patterns. Pattern 1 (high consumption of refined cereals, soft drinks, fried potatoes, sausages and processed meat, vegetable oils, beer, and takeaway foods and low consumption of other vegetables, vegetable dishes, tea, coffee, fruit, wholegrain breads, and breakfast cereals) were significantly inversely associated with total body BMC (g) [β = -15.4 (95% CI -27.4, -3.3), adjusted for age, height, physical activity, smoking, education, energy, and calcium intake]. Pattern 4 (high consumption of legumes, seafood, seeds, nuts, wine, rice and rice dishes, other vegetables, and vegetable dishes and low consumption of bacon and ham) were directly associated with BMD at both sites and total body BMC in adjusted models [BMC (g): β = 15.2 (95% CI 2.84, 27.6), fully adjusted model]. The remaining dietary patterns were not consistently associated with BMD or BMC. This study identified specific dietary patterns associated with BMD and total body BMC among women and provides evidence that will contribute to potential food-based strategies for improving bone health.
21654578	Four new pyridine derivatives, monasnicotinates A-D (1-4) were isolated from the red yeast rice of Monascus pilosus BCRC 38093. Their structures were elucidated on the basis of physicochemical evidence, in-depth NMR spectroscopic analysis, and high-resolution mass spectrometry. Their inhibitory effects on NO production was also evaluated.
21655219	RNA interference (RNAi) is a powerful technique for functional genomics research in insects. Transgenic plants producing double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) directed against insect genes have been reported for lepidopteran and coleopteran insects, showing potential for field-level control of insect pests, but this has not been reported for other insect orders. The Hemipteran insect brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stål) is a typical phloem sap feeder specific to rice (Oryza sativa L.). To analyze the potential of exploiting RNAi-mediated effects in this insect, we identified genes (Nlsid-1 and Nlaub) encoding proteins that might be involved in the RNAi pathway in N. lugens. Both genes are expressed ubiquitously in nymphs and adult insects. Three genes (the hexose transporter gene NlHT1, the carboxypeptidase gene Nlcar and the trypsin-like serine protease gene Nltry) that are highly expressed in the N. lugens midgut were isolated and used to develop dsRNA constructs for transforming rice. RNA blot analysis showed that the dsRNAs were transcribed and some of them were processed to siRNAs in the transgenic lines. When nymphs were fed on rice plants expressing dsRNA, levels of transcripts of the targeted genes in the midgut were reduced; however, lethal phenotypic effects after dsRNA feeding were not observed. Our study shows that genes for the RNAi pathway (Nlsid-1 and Nlaub) are present in N. lugens. When insects were fed on rice plant materials expressing dsRNAs, RNA interference was triggered and the target genes transcript levels were suppressed. The gene knockdown technique described here may prove to be a valuable tool for further investigations in N. lugens. The results demonstrate the potential of dsRNA-mediated RNAi for field-level control of planthoppers, but appropriate target genes must be selected when designing the dsRNA-transgenic plants.
21655270	Methanogenesis is traditionally thought to occur only in highly reduced, anoxic environments. Wetland and rice field soils are well known sources for atmospheric methane, while aerated soils are considered sinks. Although methanogens have been detected in low numbers in some aerated, and even in desert soils, it remains unclear whether they are active under natural oxic conditions, such as in biological soil crusts (BSCs) of arid regions. To answer this question we carried out a factorial experiment using microcosms under simulated natural conditions. The BSC on top of an arid soil was incubated under moist conditions in all possible combinations of flooding and drainage, light and dark, air and nitrogen headspace. In the light, oxygen was produced by photosynthesis. Methane production was detected in all microcosms, but rates were much lower when oxygen was present. In addition, the δ(13)C of the methane differed between the oxic/oxygenic and anoxic microcosms. While under anoxic conditions methane was mainly produced from acetate, it was almost entirely produced from H(2)/CO(2) under oxic/oxygenic conditions. Only two genera of methanogens were identified in the BSC-Methanosarcina and Methanocella; their abundance and activity in transcribing the mcrA gene (coding for methyl-CoM reductase) was higher under anoxic than oxic/oxygenic conditions, respectively. Both methanogens also actively transcribed the oxygen detoxifying gene catalase. Since methanotrophs were not detectable in the BSC, all the methane produced was released into the atmosphere. Our findings point to a formerly unknown participation of desert soils in the global methane cycle.
21655616	We examined the daily inorganic arsenic (i-As) intake from drinking water and rice in 45 households (75 individuals) in the An Giang province, Southern Vietnam. The daily i-As intake ranged from 28-102 μg d(-1), equivalent to the daily dose of 0.6-1.9 μg d(-1) kg((body wt))(-1). Increased As concentrations were observed in human hair in the study location. Approximately 67% (n = 44), 42% (n = 28), and 15% (n = 10) of the hair samples had As levels exceeding 1, 3, and 10 μg g(-1), respectively. The total As concentrations in female and male hair correlated well with the total daily i-As intake. Measurement of As concentrations in the hair of people who were consuming or had previously consumed As from contaminated sources may help predict the onset of negative health effects. We suggested an application of the Bayes's theorem to calculate the probability that an individual in a population will acquire a negative health effect, given that the concentration of arsenic in the subject's hair has been determined.
21656677	A method was developed to determine eight acetanilide herbicides from cereal crops based on accelerated solvent extraction (ASE) and solid-phase extraction (SPE) followed by gas chromatography-electron capture detector (GC-ECD) analysis. During the ASE process, the effect of four parameters (temperature, static time, static cycles and solvent) on the extraction efficiency was considered and compared with shake-flask extraction method. After extraction with ASE, four SPE tubes (graphitic carbon black/primary secondary amine (GCB/PSA), GCB, Florisil and alumina-N) were assayed for comparison to obtain the best clean-up efficiency. The results show that GCB/PSA cartridge gave the best recoveries and cleanest chromatograms. The analytical process was validated by the analysis of spiked blank samples. Performance characteristics such as linearity, limit of detection (LOD), limit of quantitation (LOQ), precision and recovery were studied. At 0.05 mg/kg spiked level, recoveries and precision values for rice, wheat and maize were 82.3-115.8 and 1.1-13.6%, respectively. For all the herbicides, LOD and LOQ ranged from 0.8 to 1.7 μg/kg and from 2.4 to 5.3 μg/kg, respectively. The proposed analytical methodology was applied for the analysis of the targets in samples; only three herbicides, propyzamid, metolachlor and diflufenican, were detected in two samples.
21656802	Enterobacter cloacae GS1 was isolated by in-planta enrichment of a rice rhizoplane bacterial community. It displayed strong seed adherence ability (2.5 × 10(5) cfu/seed) and colonized rice roots reaching up to 1.65 × 10(9) cfu/g of fresh root weight in a gnotobiotic root colonization system. E. cloacae GS1 was motile, able to solubilize tricalcium phosphate, and produced indole acetic acid like substances (15 μg/ml). As an introduced bioinoculant in non-sterile soil, E. cloacae GS1 colonized rice roots and significantly improved the fresh weight, root length, shoot length, and nitrogen content in inoculated rice seedlings as compared to uninoculated controls. This isolate was tagged with green fluorescent protein and various stages of root colonization in gnotobiotic hydroponic environment and non-sterile soil environment were followed by fluorescence microscopy. Owing to its effective root colonizing ability and growth promoting potential, Enterobacter cloacae GS1 is a promising symbiotic bioinoculant for rice.
21657031	Taking non-transgenic parental rice as the control, and by using 13C pulse-chase labeling method coupled with phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis, this paper studied the effects of transgenic Bt rice on the microbial diversity in rhizosphere soil. The results showed that in the rhizosphere soils of transgenic Bt rice and its non-transgenic parent, saturated PLFAs and branched PLFAs were the main, followed by monounsaturated PLFAs, and polyunsaturated PLFAs. A significantly lower amount of Gram-positive bacterial PLFAs and a higher amount of Gram-negative bacterial PLFAs were observed in the rhizosphere soil of transgenic Bt rice at its seedling, booting, and heading stages, as compared with the control. In the whole growth period of rice, transgenic Bt gene had no significant effects on the fungal and actinomycete PLFAs in rhizosphere soil, and no significant difference was observed in the rhizosphere soil 13C-PLFA content between transgenic Bt rice and its non-transgenic parent. These findings indicated that the insertion of exogenous cry1Ab gene into rice only had temporary effects on the microbial community composition in the rhizosphere soil of rice.
21658183	• Strategies to reduce arsenic (As) in rice grain, below concentrations that represent a serious human health concern, require that the mechanisms of As accumulation within grain be established. Therefore, retranslocation of As species from flag leaves into filling rice grain was investigated. • Arsenic species were delivered through cut flag leaves during grain fill. Spatial unloading within grains was investigated using synchrotron X-ray fluorescence (SXRF) microtomography. Additionally, the effect of germanic acid (a silicic acid analog) on grain As accumulation in arsenite-treated panicles was examined. • Dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) and monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) were extremely efficiently retranslocated from flag leaves to rice grain; arsenate was poorly retranslocated, and was rapidly reduced to arsenite within flag leaves; arsenite displayed no retranslocation. Within grains, DMA rapidly dispersed while MMA and inorganic As remained close to the entry point. Germanic acid addition did not affect grain As in arsenite-treated panicles. Three-dimensional SXRF microtomography gave further information on arsenite localization in the ovular vascular trace (OVT) of rice grains. • These results demonstrate that inorganic As is poorly remobilized, while organic species are readily remobilized, from leaves to grain. Stem translocation of inorganic As may not rely solely on silicic acid transporters.
21658703	Acid treatment is a routine demineralization process to obtain black carbon (BC), but there has been little systematic research about its influence on BC's characteristics. In this study, elemental analysis, SEM, FTIR, and Boehm titration were used to investigate that effect. Our results showed that the acid treatment had little influence on the sorption of fly ash and soot to pentachlorophenol (PCP), but it greatly increased the sorption of rice chars to PCP. There were two competing effects of acid demineralization on the adsorption capacity of BC. On one hand, it increased the amount of the acidic functional groups, which decreased the adsorption capacity. On the other hand, it increased the surface and pore volume of BC and caused the emergence of hidden carbon enclosed by minerals, which in turn increased the sorptivity significantly. Especially for rice chars (600°C), after acid treatment, their surface area increased from 3.52 to 235 m(2) g(-1) and the sorption capacity coefficient increased from 2.12 to 4.10.
2166169	The structure of yeast iso-1-cytochrome c has been refined against X-ray diffraction data to a nominal resolution of 1.23 A. The atomic model contains 893 protein atoms, as well as 116 water molecules and one sulfate anion. Also included in the refinement are 886 hydrogen atoms belonging to the protein molecule. The crystallographic R-factor is 0.192 for the 12,513 reflections with F greater than or equal to 3 sigma (F) in the resolution range 6.0 to 1.23 A. Co-ordinate accuracy is estimated to be better than 0.18 A. The iso-1-cytochrome c molecule has the typical cytochrome c fold, with the polypeptide chain organized into a series of alpha-helices and reverse turns that serve to envelop the heme prosthetic group in a hydrophobic pocket. Inspection of the conformations of helices in the molecule shows that the local environments of the helices, in particular the presence of intrahelical threonine residues, cause distortions from ideal alpha-helical geometry. Analysis of the internal mobility of iso-1-cytochrome c, based on refined crystallographic temperature factors, shows that the most rigid parts of the molecule are those that are closely associated with the heme group. The degree of saturation of hydrogen-bonding potential is high, with 90% of all polar atoms found to participate in hydrogen bonding. The geometry of intramolecular hydrogen bonds is typical of that observed in other high-resolution protein structures. The 116 water molecules present in the model represent about 41% of those expected to be present in the asymmetric unit. The majority of the water molecules are organized into a small number of hydrogen-bonding networks that are anchored to the protein surface. Comparison of the structure of yeast iso-1-cytochrome c with those of tuna and rice cytochromes c shows that these three molecules have very high structural similarity, with the atomic packing in the heme crevice region being particularly highly conserved. Large conformational differences that are observed between these cytochromes c can be explained by amino acid substitutions. Additional subtle differences in the positioning of the side-chains of several highly conserved residues are also observed and occur due to unique features in the local environments of each cytochrome c molecule.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
2166170	The 1.94 A resolution three-dimensional structure of oxidized horse heart cytochrome c has been elucidated and refined to a final R-factor of 0.17. This has allowed for a detailed assessment of the structural features of this protein, including the presence of secondary structure, hydrogen-bonding patterns and heme geometry. A comprehensive analysis of the structural differences between horse heart cytochrome c and those other eukaryotic cytochromes c for which high-resolution structures are available (yeast iso-1, tuna, rice) has also been completed. Significant conformational differences between these proteins occur in three regions and primarily involve residues 22 to 27, 41 to 43 and 56 to 57. The first of these variable regions is part of a surface beta-loop, whilst the latter two are located together adjacent to the heme group. This study also demonstrates that, in horse cytochrome c, the side-chain of Phe82 is positioned in a co-planar fashion next to the heme in a conformation comparable to that found in other cytochromes c. The positioning of this residue does not therefore appear to be oxidation-state-dependent. In total, five water molecules occupy conserved positions in the structures of horse heart, yeast iso-1, tuna and rice cytochromes c. Three of these are on the surface of the protein, serving to stabilize local polypeptide chain conformations. The remaining two are internally located. One of these mediates a charged interaction between the invariant residue Arg38 and a nearby heme propionate. The other is more centrally buried near the heme iron atom and is hydrogen bonded to the conserved residues Asn52, Tyr67 and Thr78. It is shown that this latter water molecule shifts in a consistent manner upon change in oxidation state if cytochrome c structures from various sources are compared. The conservation of this structural feature and its close proximity to the heme iron atom strongly implicate this internal water molecule as having a functional role in the mechanism of action of cytochrome c.
21662012
21662241	Earthy odor is one of the most frequent and serious causes for the aroma deterioration in Chinese liquor, which causes a dirty and dusty impression. The odor in Chinese liquor is similar to that of rice husk, one kind of auxiliary material widely used as a filler in the distillation process. So it is experientially hypothesized that such odor may derive from rice husk. In this paper, the gas chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) technique and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) were used to discover and identify the characteristic odoriferous zone of Chinese liquor marked by earthy odor. Geosmin was found to be responsible for this odor. The levels of the compound in ten bottled liquors and thirty liquors aging for different years belonging to four different aroma types were determined by the optimized headspace-solid phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (HS-SPME-GC-MS) method. Quantitative analysis of bottled liquor revealed the presence of geosmin in all aroma type liquors with concentrations ranging from 1.10 μg/L to 9.90 μg/L, except for strong-aroma type liquor. Meanwhile in the aged liquors belonging to the same aroma type, geosmin was detected with significant concentrations and high odor activity values (OAVs) during different years of aging. However, geosmin was not detected in steamed rice husk nor in nonsteamed rice husk, which suggests that rice husk is not the origin of earthy odor in Chinese liquor, and there may be another origin of it during the brewing process.
21665325	Cytosine methylation is responsive to various biotic- and abiotic-stresses, which may produce heritable epialleles. Nitrogen (N)-deficiency is an abiotic stress being repeatedly experienced by plants. To address possible epigenetic consequences of N-deficiency-stress, we investigated the stability of cytosine methylation in rice (Oryza sativa L.) subsequent to a chronic (a whole-generation) N-deficiency at two levels, moderate (20mg/L) and severe (10mg/L), under hydroponic culture. MSAP analysis revealed that locus-specific methylation alteration occurred in leaf-tissue of the stressed plants (S(0)) experiencing either level of N-deficiency, which was validated by gel-blotting. Analysis on three non-stressed self-fed progenies (S(1), S(2) and S(3)) by gel-blotting indicated that ca. 50% of the altered methylation patterns in somatic cells (leaf) of the stressed S(0) plants were recaptured in S(1), which were then stably inherited to S(2) and S(3). Bisulfite sequencing of two variant MSAP loci with homology to low-copy retrotransposons on one stressed plant (S(0)) and its non-stressed progenies (S(1) and S(2)) showed that whereas one locus exhibited limited and non-heritable CHH methylation alteration, the other locus manifested dramatic heritable hypermethylation at nearly all cytosine sites within the assayed region. Intriguingly, when two groups of S(2) plants descended from the same N-deficiency-stressed S(0) plant were re-subjected to the stress, the group inheriting the modified methylation patterns showed enhanced tolerance to the N-deficiency-stress compared with the group bearing the original patterns. Our results thus demonstrate heritability of an acquired adaptive trait in rice, which was accompanied by epigenetic inheritance of modified cytosine methylation patterns, implicating an epigenetic basis underlying the inheritance of an acquired trait in plants.
21665625	Phylogenetic relationships were inferred using nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast gene matK for 26 species representing 11 genera of the tribe Oryzeae and three outgroup species. The sequenced fragments varied from 1522 base pairs (bp) to 1534 bp in length with 15.4% variable and 7.9% phylogenetically informative sites when the outgroups were excluded. The aligned sequences were analyzed by maximum parsimony and neighbor-joining methods. Analyses of the sequence data indicated that species of Oryzeae form a strongly supported monophyletic group, concordant with previous morphological and anatomical evidence. The tribe Oryzeae can be divided into two monophyletic lineages, corresponding to the traditionally recognized subtribes Oryzinae and Zizaniinae. The first subtribe consists of Oryza and Leersia, while the subtribe Zizaniinae includes the remaining genera. The matK sequence data did not support the close affinities of the monoecious genera in Oryzeae, implying the possibility of multiple origins of the floral structures in the tribe. It is noteworthy that Porteresia coarctata is closely related to Oryza species, suggesting that it should be treated as a member in the genus Oryza rather than a separate monotypic genus.
21667107	Auxin response factors (ARFs), member of the plant-specific B3 DNA binding superfamily, target specifically to auxin response elements (AuxREs) in promoters of primary auxin-responsive genes and heterodimerize with Aux/IAA proteins in auxin signaling transduction cascade. In previous research, we have isolated and characterized maize Aux/IAA genes in whole-genome scale. Here, we report the comprehensive analysis of ARF genes in maize. A total of 36 ARF genes were identified and validated from the B73 maize genome through an iterative strategy. Thirty-six maize ARF genes are distributed in all maize chromosomes except chromosome 7. Maize ARF genes expansion is mainly due to recent segmental duplications. Maize ARF proteins share one B3 DNA binding domain which consists of seven-stranded β sheets and two short α helixes. Twelve maize ARFs with glutamine-rich middle regions could be as activators in modulating expression of auxin-responsive genes. Eleven maize ARF proteins are lack of homo- and heterodimerization domains. Putative cis-elements involved in phytohormones and light signaling responses, biotic and abiotic stress adaption locate in promoters of maize ARF genes. Expression patterns vary greatly between clades and sister pairs of maize ARF genes. The B3 DNA binding and auxin response factor domains of maize ARF proteins are primarily subjected to negative selection during selective sweep. The mixed selective forces drive the diversification and evolution of genomic regions outside of B3 and ARF domains. Additionally, the dicot-specific proliferation of ARF genes was detected. Comparative genomics analysis indicated that maize, sorghum and rice duplicate chromosomal blocks containing ARF homologs are highly syntenic. This study provides insights into the distribution, phylogeny and evolution of ARF gene family.
2166732	The effects of adding whole cottonseed (WCS) and live yeast culture (YC) to a diet of 60% alfalfa and 40% concentrate on ruminal fermentation and liquid dilution rate in steers were examined in two trials. Twelve ruminally cannulated Hereford steers (approximately 420 kg) were used. Concentrates were 1) a basal grain mix composed of ground corn, ground barley and rice bran, 2) basal mix with 10% WCS, 3) basal mix with 1.6% YC and 4) basal mix with 10% WCS and 1.6% YC. No differences were detected (P greater than .10) in ruminal pH of steers fed WCS or YC in either trial. Ruminal ammonia levels tended to be higher (P greater than .10) in steers fed WCS. Acetate was higher and butyrate was lower in steers receiving 10% WCS (P less than .10) compared with controls. Molar proportions of acetate and butyrate increased while propionate decreased (P less than .05) over time after feeding. Intake and apparent digestibility of dry matter was not influenced by treatments. Whole cottonseed and(or) YC appear to have minimal effects on ruminal fermentation, but they might alter ruminal liquid passage rate with diets containing 60% ground alfalfa and 40% concentrate.
21667353	The use of fluorescent nanomaterials with good photostability and biocompatibility in live imaging of cells has gained increased attention. Even though several imaging techniques have been reported for mammalian cells, very limited literatures are available for nanomaterial based live imaging in plant system. We studied the uptake ability of two different nanomaterials, the highly photostable CdSe quantum dots and highly biocompatible FITC-labeled silica nanoparticles by rice seedlings which could provide greater opportunities for developing novel in vivo imaging techniques in plants. The effects of these nanomaterials on rice seed germination have also been studied for analyzing their phytotoxic effects on plants. We observed good germination of seeds in the presence of FITC-labeled silica nanoparticles whereas germination was arrested with quantum dots. The uptake of both the nanomaterials has been observed with rice seedlings, which calls for more research for recommending their safe use as biolabels in plants.
21667569
21668550	The Asian rice gall midge, Orseolia oryzae, is a fast evolving, damaging pest of rice. Understanding the underlying molecular mechanism of interaction between the gall midge and rice will help in devising strategies to control and manage the pest. The present study aims to identify rice-responsive genes in the gall midge that aid pest survival. The abundance of transcripts coding for enzymes related to glycosylation, in a cDNA library prepared from maggots of the rice gall midge feeding on susceptible hosts, indicated their probable involvement in the gall midge-rice interaction. Hence, a full-length transcript for a gamma subunit of the oligosaccharyl transferase gene (OoOST) from the gall midge was cloned and characterized. It has 72% similarity to its orthologue cloned from Aedes aegypti. Tissue-specific analysis of the expression of OoOST revealed an increase (> sevenfold) in the transcripts of the gene in the salivary glands of maggots in susceptible plants when compared with the transcript level in the salivary glands of maggots feeding on resistant hosts. Using quantitative PCR, performed on different developmental stages of the maggots in two susceptible and two resistant hosts, we observed similar expression patterns (i.e. overexpression in the compatible interaction). These results indicate the involvement of OoOST in maggot survival and establishment in the susceptible host. In order to identify polymorphism in the gene, OoOST was cloned from three gall midge biotypes GMB1, GMB4 and GMB4M.
21668602	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) can successfully germinate and grow even when flooded. Rice varieties possessing the submergence 1A (Sub1A) gene display a distinct flooding-tolerant phenotype, associated with lower carbohydrate consumption and restriction of the fast-elongation phenotype typical of flooding-intolerant rice varieties. Calcineurin B-like interacting protein kinase 15 (CIPK15) was recently indicated as a key regulator of α-amylases under oxygen deprivation, linked to both rice germination and flooding tolerance in adult plants. It is still unknown whether the Sub1A- and CIPK15-mediated pathways act as complementary processes for rice survival under O(2) deprivation. In adult plants Sub1A and CIPK15 may perhaps play an antagonistic role in terms of carbohydrate consumption, with Sub1A acting as a starch degradation repressor and CIPK15 as an activator. In this study, we analysed sugar metabolism in the stem of rice plants under water submergence by selecting cultivars with different traits associated with flooding survival. The relation between the Sub1A and the CIPK15 pathways was investigated. The results show that under O(2) deprivation, the CIPK15 pathway is repressed in the tolerant, Sub1A-containing, FR13A variety. CIPK15 is likely to play a role in the up-regulation of Ramy3D in flooding-intolerant rice varieties that display fast elongation under flooding and that do not possess Sub1A.
21669178	Identifying a good transgenic event from the pool of putative transgenics is crucial for further characterization. In transgenic plants, the transgene can integrate in either single or multiple locations by disrupting the endogenes and/or in heterochromatin regions causing the positional effect. Apart from this, to protect the unauthorized use of transgenic plants, the signature of transgene integration for every commercial transgenic event needs to be characterized. Here we show an affinity-based genome walking method, named locus-finding (LF) PCR (polymerase chain reaction), to determine the transgene flanking sequences of rice plants transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. LF PCR includes a primary PCR by a degenerated primer and transfer DNA (T-DNA)-specific primer, a nested PCR, and a method of enriching the desired amplicons by using a biotin-tagged primer that is complementary to the T-DNA. This enrichment technique separates the single strands of desired amplicons from the off-target amplicons, reducing the template complexity by several orders of magnitude. We analyzed eight transgenic rice plants and found the transgene integration loci in three different chromosomes. The characteristic illegitimate recombination of the Agrobacterium sp. was also observed from the sequenced integration loci. We believe that the LF PCR should be an indispensable technique in transgenic analysis.
21669452	This study assessed the effects of episodic contamination on a drainage canal adjacent to an area of intensive rice production (Coimbra, Portugal). Four monitoring periods were considered [i) before herbicide application (day-14), ii) at the first application day (day 0), iii) 3 or 5 and iv) 6days after]. Each one consisted in three complementary evaluation lines: a) physico-chemical analyses, b) whole effluent toxicity (WET) assays with Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, c) in situ bioassays to assess microalgae (P. subcapitata) growth, and the feeding rate and survival of Daphnia longispina and Daphnia magna. Study sites were located upstream, in a protected wetland (L1), and downstream, in the vicinity of rice fields (L2). Along with the application of agrochemicals, there was a general decrease of the water quality, especially in L2, due to nutrient and herbicide inputs. Herbicide peaks (on days 0, 5 and 6) in L2 water samples were recorded concomitantly or immediately after their application. Regarding the in situ bioassessment, the algae growth decrease from day 0 onwards in L1, whilst in L2 its inhibition was generally coherent with the decline of the water quality. Apparently, WET tests indicated that the limitation of nutrients could be affecting algae growth in L1, however, conclusions should be cautious. The feeding depression of daphnids occurred on days 0 and 5 for D. longispina and only on day 0 for D. magna, while significant reductions on survival were restricted to day 0 for both species. The impairments occurring on day 0 were linked to a potential increased toxicity driven by the ingestion of particle-bound herbicides and suspended particles. The feeding rate of daphnids provided an earlier indication of toxic impairments, though it is prompted the use of complementary endpoints and trophic levels in order to understand the cumulative effects due to various herbicide pulses.
21669648	Leaf morphology and anatomy during vegetative phase change was compared in bluegrass, rice, and maize. Maize juvenile leaves are coated with epicuticular wax, lack specialized cells, such as trichomes and bulliform cells, and epidermal cell walls stain a uniform purple color. Adult maize leaves are pubescent, lack epicuticular waxes, and have crenulated epidermal cell walls that stain purple and blue. All bluegrass and rice blades are pubescent, coated with epicuticular waxes, and show purple and blue wall staining. In all three grasses, blade width steadily increases at each node until a threshold size is achieved several nodes before reproductive competence is acquired. Blade-to-sheath length showed a similar trend of continuous change followed by discontinuous change prior to reproduction. Analysis of leaf development demonstrated that maize primordia initiate more rapidly relative to blade and sheath growth than do either bluegrass or rice. We conclude that leaf shape, as defined by blade width and blade-to-sheath ratio, is a reliable indicator of phase, whereas anatomy is not a universal indicator of phase change in the grasses. We speculate that different growth patterns among these grasses may be attributed to changes in the timing of embryonic and postembryonic development.
21669668	Young Phragmites plants were grown in two cocktails of monocarboxylic acids (C(1)-C(5)) at pH 6, where the concentration of each acid was innocuous and the total undissociated (potentially toxic) concentrations were 0.35 mmol/L and 0.42 mmol/L. Rice plants were subjected to 1.5 mmol/L acetic acid at pH 4.5 (undissociated concentration = 1.05 mmol/L). In Phragmites, each cocktail curtailed root growth especially and induced premature shoot senescence. In both species, after 3-5 d of treatment, radial oxygen loss (ROL) from apical regions of adventitious roots, and from Phragmites laterals, was reduced to very low values and associated with cell wall lignification and suberization in the surface cell layers. At later stages of treatment, rice responded to acetic acid in similar ways to Phragmites, with the development of intercellular and callus type occlusions in the gas space system, vascular blockages, and the failure of laterals to emerge. The results are relevant to the supply of oxygen from Phragmites roots to sediments for the phytopurification of waste waters, to the efflux of methane and carbon dioxide from wetlands, and to rice cultivation.
21669729	Patterns of sequence variation of nuclear genes encoding 10-kDa and 16-kDa prolamin seed storage proteins were examined in Oryza glaberrima (African rice, Poaceae) and O. barthii and compared to available sequences for the genus to assess potential application of these gene families in evolutionary studies. Sequence variation among species in 10-kDa genes was very low. In contrast, the 16-kDa genes have undergone rapid evolution, displaying a larger number of length and point mutations that in some cases result in frame shift or produce truncated protein or pseudogenes. The proportion of nonsynonymous substitution is high in both genes. Although nonsynonymous mutations did not alter the overall profile of the protein, pronounced shifts in proportions of some amino acids were evident and could have systematic application. The data provide support for a proposed direct evolution of the Asian (O. sativa) and African rice from O. rufipogon and O. barthii, respectively. Patterns of amino acid frequencies of the 10-kDa genes show the distinctness of O. rufipogon and O. longistaminata from the other species. The study underscores the potential application of the prolamin genes as markers from the nuclear genome for evolutionary studies in grasses at different taxonomic levels.
21670506	An understanding of the cadmium (Cd) transport system in rice can serve as a basis for coping with Cd-related problems in rice and human health. To identify a new gene involved in Cd transport in rice, we screened our yeast library, expressing 140 kinds of rice ATP binding cassette (ABC)-type transporters. From the screening, we found that OsABCG43/PDR5 conferred high Cd tolerance on yeast. The Cd concentration of yeast carrying OsABCG43 was similar to that of the vector control. The OsABCG43 transcript was detected both in shoots and roots. Accumulation of it was elevated by Cd treatment in the roots but not in the shoots. This study indicates that OsABCG43 is a Cd inducible-transporter gene capable of conferring Cd tolerance on yeast.
21670524	A crude endo-xylanase produced by Aspergillus niger BCC14405 was investigated for its potential in pre-bleaching of chemical pulp from eucalyptus. The optimal fermentation conditions on the basis of optimization using response surface methodology included cultivation in a complex medium comprising wheat bran, rice bran, and soybean meal supplemented with yeast extract, glucose, peptone, and lactose with a starting pH of 6.0 for 7 d. This resulted in production of 89.5 IU/mL of xylanase with minor cellulase activity. Proteomic analysis using LC/MS/MS revealed that the crude enzyme was a composite of hemicellulolytic enzymes, including endo-β-1,4-xylanase and other hemicellulolytic enzymes attacking arabinoxylan and mannan. Pretreatment of the pulp at a xylanase dosage of 10 IU/g increased the brightness ceiling after the C-Eop-H bleaching step up to 3.0% using a chlorine charge with a C-factor of 0.16-0.20. Xylanase treatment also led to reduction in chlorine charge of at least 20%, with an acceptable brightness level. The enzyme pretreatment resulted in a slight increase in pulp viscosity, suggesting an increase in relative cellulose content. The crude enzyme was potent in the enzyme-aided bleaching of chemical pulp in an environmentally friendly pulping process.
21670528	We evaluated genetic variations in the non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) and the cell-wall components of stem in rice, sorghum, and sugar cane to assess the potential suitability of these gramineous crops for bioethanol production. For NSC, the maximum soluble sugar concentration was highest in sugar cane, followed by sorghum with sucrose. The major NSC in rice was starch, but there were wide variations in the starch to soluble sugar ratios among the cultivars. The total concentration of cell-wall components was negatively correlated with the NSC concentration, indicating competition for carbon sources. Among the cell-wall components, lignin was relatively stable within each group. The major sugar species composing hemicellulose was xylose in all crop groups, but there were differences in composition, with a higher fraction of arabinose and glucose in rice as compared to the other crops. In rice, there was less lignin than in sorghum or sugar cane; this might be advantageous for the efficient saccharification of cellulose.
21670564	The effects of soil and fertilizer types on archaeal communities were evaluated by real-time PCR and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) targeting the 16S rRNA gene of total DNA directly extracted from upland field soils. Twelve experimental upland field plots containing four different soil types, i.e., Cumulic Andosol, Low-humic Andosol, Yellow Soil and Gray Lowland Soil, were maintained under three different fertilizer management systems for 8 years (chemical fertilizer, rice husks and cow manure, and pig manure, respectively). Two-way ANOVA and RDA analyses showed that the copy number and PCR-DGGE profile of archaeal 16S rRNA gene were affected mainly by soil type, especially between Andosol and non-Andosol, but were also influenced by fertilizer type. Among several soil chemical properties, total N content showed a significant correlation to archaeal community. Sequence analyses showed that most of the major DGGE bands corresponded to uncultured Crenarchaeota of Group I.1b that contained ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA). These sequences were separated into two clusters in the phylogenetic tree and each lineage showed a different response to total N content.
2167215	Passive immunization using antisera raised against rat PTH-like peptide [PLP-(1-34)] and rat PTH-(1-84) was used to assess and compare the roles played by PLP and PTH in modulating mineral metabolism in hypercalcemic rats bearing the Rice-500 Leydig cell tumor and in normocalcemic control animals. After immunization, plasma calcium in the tumor-bearing animals rapidly normalized and remained within the normal range for several days, plasma phosphate rose, and urinary phosphate and cAMP fell. These changes were associated with increased longevity of the tumor-bearing rats. Reduction of plasma calcium was shown to be a function of early (5 h) neutralization of PLP bioactivity in the kidney, whereas the effect of immunoneutralization of PLP in bone appeared later (24-48 h) and was more prolonged. Immunization against PTH in normocalcemic animals resulted in a hypocalcemic episode of smaller magnitude and shorter duration than that achieved in hypercalcemic animals immunized against PLP and appeared to be unassociated with neutralization of distal tubular effects. Neutralization of proximal tubular and skeletal actions of PTH appeared to occur in a manner analogous to that seen for PLP in tumor-bearing animals, but were of shorter duration. These studies suggest that in normal animals the action of PTH in the skeleton and/or on vitamin D metabolism contributes considerably more than renal transport activity to the maintenance of normocalcemia and that compensatory mechanisms rapidly restore homeostasis. PTH appears to be the major modulator of calcium homeostasis in normal rats, with PLP playing a minor role, if any. In tumor-bearing rats, mechanisms to restore calcium levels to baseline are delayed after PLP immunoneutralization, and PLP appears to be both necessary and sufficient for the hypercalcemic state.
21673510	Establishment of adaxial-abaxial polarity is essential for lateral organ development. A stamen consists of a bilaterally symmetrical anther and a radial filament. Using a rice mutant, rod-like lemma, in which establishment of adaxial-abaxial polarity is compromised, we found that stamen patterning is likely to be achieved by a unique regulatory mechanism: rearrangement of adaxial-abaxial polarity in the anther, and abaxialization in the filament. These regulations are not found in leaf development. Here, we discuss similarities and differences between the stamen and the leaf in the mechanisms underlying the establishment of adaxial-abaxial polarity. In addition, we propose the idea that the process of establishing adaxial-abaxial polarity in lateral organs is likely to be divided into two phases: a meristem-dependent, followed by a meristem-independent phase. In stamen development, the transition between these two phases is clearly observed as the rearrangement of expression patterns of the adaxial and abaxial marker genes.
21673515	Small RNAs are riboregulators that play critical roles in eukaryotic cells. They repress gene expression by acting either on DNA to guide sequence elimination and chromatin remodeling, or on RNA to guide cleavage and translation repression. Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa contain four and six DICER-LIKE (DCL) genes with specialized functions in small RNA biogenesis for RNA interference-related processes. We recently profiled genome-wide gene expression in egg and synergid cells in rice. In this article, we show that OsDCL2, OsDCL4, and OsHEN1 are preferentially expressed in the egg cell. In addition, we revealed that AtDCL2 is also preferentially expressed in the Arabidopsis egg cell. These findings suggest that small RNA pathways are activated in the egg cell in both rice and Arabidopsis. The activation of these pathways in the egg cell might be essential for egg cell maturation, fertilization, or embryogenesis.
21674010	Oryza sativa or Asian cultivated rice is one of the major cereal grass species domesticated for human food use during the Neolithic. Domestication of this species from the wild grass Oryza rufipogon was accompanied by changes in several traits, including seed shattering, percent seed set, tillering, grain weight, and flowering time. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping has identified three genomic regions in chromosome 3 that appear to be associated with these traits. We would like to study whether these regions show signatures of selection and whether the same genetic basis underlies the domestication of different rice varieties. Fragments of 88 genes spanning these three genomic regions were sequenced from multiple accessions of two major varietal groups in O. sativa--indica and tropical japonica--as well as the ancestral wild rice species O. rufipogon. In tropical japonica, the levels of nucleotide variation in these three QTL regions are significantly lower compared to genome-wide levels, and coalescent simulations based on a complex demographic model of rice domestication indicate that these patterns are consistent with selection. In contrast, there is no significant reduction in nucleotide diversity in the homologous regions in indica rice. These results suggest that there are differences in the genetic and selective basis for domestication between these two Asian rice varietal groups.
21674754	Trichoderma asperellum SKT-1 is a microbial pesticide of seedborne diseases of rice. To investigate the mechanisms of disease suppression in SKT-1, the ability to induce systemic resistance by SKT-1, or its cell-free culture filtrate (CF), was tested using Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 plants. Both SKT-1 and its CF elicit an induced systemic resistance against the bacterial leaf speck pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 in Col-0 plants. Involvement of plant hormones in the induced resistance by SKT-1 and CF was assessed using Arabidopsis genotypes such as the jasmonic acid (JA)-resistant mutant jar1, the ethylene (ET)-resistant mutant etr1, the plant impaired in salicylic acid (SA) signalling transgenic NahG and the mutant npr1 impaired in NPR1 activity. In soil experiments using SKT-1, no significant disease suppression effect was observed in NahG transgenic plants or npr1 mutant plants. Expression levels of SA-inducible genes such as PR-1, PR-2 and PR-5 increased substantially in the leaves of Col-0 plants. Expression levels of JA/ET-induced genes such as PDF1.2a, PR-3, PR-4 and AtVsp1 were also induced, but the levels were not as high as for SA-inducible genes. In a hydroponic experiment using CF from SKT-1, all Arabidopsis genotypes showed an induced systemic resistance by CF and increased expression levels of JA/ET- and SA-inducible genes in leaves of CF-treated plants. The SA signalling pathway is important in inducing systemic resistance to colonisation by SKT-1, and both SA and JA/ET signalling pathways combine in the signalling of induced resistance by CF. These results indicate that the response of A. thaliana is different from that found in root treatments with barley grain inoculum and CF from SKT-1.
21675453	To determine the prevalence of low back pain (LBP) among rice farmers in a rural community in Phitsanulok, Thailand. A cross-sectional survey was conducted among 283 rice farmers in Wangnamkhu subdistrict, Muang district, Phitsanulok province, a rural community in Lower Northern Thailand. Face-to-face interviews with a structured closed-end questionnaire were performed to collect information on the presence of LBP in lifetime, within the last 12 months prior to and at the time of the present study. The lifetime, 1-year (12-month) and point prevalence rates of LBP were 77%, 56% and 49%, respectively. No relationship between age and LBP was found. However women (61%) had significantly greater 1-year prevalence than men (51%). Ninety-five percent of LBP rice farmers were chronic (experiencing pain longer than 12 weeks) with a mean duration of 292 weeks (5.6 years). The prevalence of LBP among Thai rice farmers is high. Further research should investigate risk factors among this group of the population to design appropriate preventive measures.
21675771	Photolysis is an important degradation process to consider when evaluating a pesticide's persistence in a rice field environment. To simulate both nonflooded and flooded California rice field conditions, the photolytic degradation of etofenprox, an ether pyrethroid, was characterized on an air-dried rice soil and a flooded rice soil surface by determination of its half-life (t(1/2)), dissipation rate constant (k) and identification and quantitation of degradation products using LC/MS/MS. Photodegradation was also characterized on a glass surface alone to rule out confounding soil factors. Measured photolytic dissipation rates were used as input parameters into a multimedia environmental fate model to predict etofenprox persistence in a rice field environment. Photolytic degradation proceeded at a faster rate (0.23/day, t(1/2) = 3.0 days) on the flooded soil surface compared to the air-dried surface (0.039/day, t(1/2) = 18 days). Etofenprox degradation occurred relatively quickly on the glass surface (3.1/day, t(1/2) = 0.23 days or 5.5 h) compared to both flooded and air-dried soil layers. Oxidation of the ether moiety to the ester was the major product on all surfaces (max % yield range = 0.2 ± 0.1% to 9.3 ± 2.3%). The hydroxylation product at the 4' position of the phenoxy phenyl ring was detected on all surfaces (max % yield range = 0.2 ± 0.1% to 4.1 ± 1.0%). The air-dried soil surface did not contain detectable residues of the ester cleavage product, whereas it was quantitated on the flooded soil (max % yield = 0.6 ± 0.3%) and glass surface (max % yield = 3.6 ± 0.6%). Dissipation of the insecticide in dark controls was significantly different (p < 0.05) compared to the light-exposed surfaces indicating that degradation was by photolysis. Laboratory studies and fate model predictions suggest photolysis will be an important process in the overall degradation of etofenprox in a rice field environment.
21676173	In many plants, sucrose transporters are essential for both sucrose exports from sources and imports into sinks, indicating a function in assimilate partitioning. To investigate whether sucrose transporters can improve the yield of starch plant, potato plants (Solanum tuberosum L. cv. Désirée) were transformed with cDNAs of the rice sucrose transporter genes OsSUT5Z and OsSUT2M under the control of a tuber-specific, class-I patatin promoter. Compared to the controls, the average fructose content of OsSUT5Z transgenic tubers significantly increased. However, the content of the sugars and starch in the OsSUT2M transgenic potato tubers showed no obvious difference. Correspondingly, the average tuber yield, average number of tubers per plant and average weight of single tuber showed no significant difference in OsSUT2M transgenic tubers with controls. In the OsSUT5Z transgenic lines, the average tuber yield per plant was 1.9-fold higher than the controls, and the average number of tubers per plant increased by more than 10 tubers on average, whereas the average weight of a single tuber did not increase significantly. These results suggested that the average number of tubers per plant showed more contribution than the average weight of a single tuber to the tuber yield per plant.
21676205	To improve the amplified fragment length polymorphism assay, dual-suppression PCR was introduced into the preamplification step of the assay. The dual-suppression PCR blocked completely the amplification of fragments with the same sequence (Bsp1407I-Bsp1407I or NlaIII-NlaIII) at both ends and amplified selectively fragments with different adaptor sequences (Bsp1407I-NlaIII) at each end. Two protocols, referred to as A and B, were established for species with medium- and large-sized genomes, respectively. Both protocols incorporated the dual-suppression PCR. Protocol A resulted in high-quality electrophoretic profiles for black cottonwood and rice, which have medium-sized genomes. In protocol B, an intensely selective PCR step was added to protocol A. Protocol B yielded profiles for Japanese black pine and Japanese cedar that were improved significantly relative to protocol A: the number of strong peaks increased and that of low peaks decreased. Japanese black pine and Japanese cedar have large genomes. The optimal profiles were generated with a total of eight or nine selective nucleotides.
21676402	An improved normal phase high performance liquid chromatographic (NP-HPLC) method was developed for simultaneous quantification of eight vitamin E isomers (α-, β-, γ- and δ-tocopherols and α-, β-, γ- and δ-tocotrienols) and γ-oryzanol in rice. A complete separation of all compounds was achieved within 25 min using an Inertsil CN-3, SIL-100A 5 μM (4.6 mm × 250 mm) column and an isocratic elution system of hexane/isopropanol/ethylacetate/acetic acid (97.6:0.8:0.8:0.8, v/v/v/v) at a flow rate varying from 0.7 to 1.5 mL min(-1). A linear correlation coefficient (r(2)>0.99) and high reproducibility were obtained at concentrations ranging 0.05-10 μg mL(-1) for vitamin E isomers and 0.5-500 μg mL(-1) for γ-oryzanol. This method proved to be rapid, accurate and reproducible.
21676430	To investigate bioaccumulation, maternal transfer and elimination of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in amphibians, we collected adult frogs (Rana limnocharis) from a rice field in an e-waste recycling site in China. We found that ∑PBDEs in the whole frogs and various tissues (brain, liver, testis and egg) ranged from 17.10 to 141.11 ng g(-1) wet weight. Various tissues exhibited a similar PBDE congener profile, which was characterized by intermediate brominated congeners (BDE-99 and BDE-153) as the largest contributors, with less lower brominated congeners (BDE-28 and BDE-47) and higher brominated congeners (BDE-209). The maternal transfer capacity of PBDEs declined with the increase in bromine numbers of PBDE congeners. We suggest that the bromine atom number (the molecular size, to some degree) might be a determining factor for the maternal transport of a PBDE congener rather than K(ow) (Octanol-Water partition coefficient), which expresses a compound's lipophilicity. ∑PBDEs concentrations in frogs decreased over time during a depuration period of 54 days when these wild frogs were brought to the lab from the e-waste recycling site. The half-life of ∑PBDEs was 35 days, with about 14 days for BDE-47, and 36 and 81 days for BDE-99 and BDE-153, respectively. The data shows that the elimination of PBDEs has no essential difference from aquatic and terrestrial species.
21677384	A set of morphological traits and SSR markers were used to determine the genetic relationship among 12 elite thermosensitive genic male sterile (TGMS) lines developed at three different research institutions of India. Agro-morphological data recorded on 20 morphological traits revealed a wide base of genetic variation and a set of four morphological traits could distinguish most of the TGMS lines. Analysis with 30 SSR markers (20 EST-SSRs and 10 genomic SSRs) revealed 27 markers to be polymorphic, amplifying a total of 83 alleles. Each SSR marker amplified 2-6 alleles with an average of 2.76 alleles per marker and a PIC value varying from 0.54 to 0.96. Cluster analysis based on SSR and morphological data clearly differentiated the lines according to their source of origin. Correlation analysis between morphological and molecular data revealed a very poor association (r = 0.06), which could be attributed to selection pressure, genetic drift, sampling error and unknown relationship among related lines. The SSR markers discriminated the genotypes distinctly and quantified the genetic diversity precisely among the TGMS lines. Data on the yield per plant indicated that the genotypes grouping under a similar cluster showed same heterotic behaviour as compared to the genotypes from different clusters when crossed to similar pollinators.
21677387	Validation and dissection of a QTL region for leaf traits in rice which has been reported in a number of independent studies were conducted. Three sets of near isogenic lines (NILs) were originated from a residual heterozygous line derived the indica cross Zhenshan 97B/Milyang 46. They were overlapping and totally covered a 4.2-Mb heterogenous region extending from RM4923 to RM402 on the short arm of rice chromosome 6. Each NIL set consisted of 10 maternal lines and 10 paternal lines. They were measured for the length, width, perimeter and area of the top three leaves and the number of spikelets per panicle, number of grains per panicle and grain weight per panicle. In NIL sets 6-4 and 6-7, differing in intervals RM4923-RM225 and RM19410-RM6119, respectively, significant variations with the enhancing alleles from the female parent ZS97 were shown for the length, perimeter and area except for the area of the third leaf from top in 6-4, but the effects were lower in 6-4 than in 6-7. No significant effects were detected for the three traits in the remaining NIL set. It was shown that flag leaf length (FLL) is the primary target of the QTLs detected. Two QTLs for FLL linked in repulsion phase were resolved, of which qFLL6.2 located in the 1.19-Mb interval RM3414-RM6917 had a major effect with the enhancing allele from Zhenshan 97B, and qFLL6.1 located in the 946.8-kb interval RM19350-RM19410 had a smaller effect with the enhancing allele from Milyang 46. The two QTLs also exerted pleiotropic effects on the yield traits.
21677691	Dissolved N(2)O is occasionally detected in surface and ground water in rice paddy fields, whereas little or no N(2)O is emitted to the atmosphere above these fields. This indicates the occurrence of N(2)O reduction in rice paddy fields; however, identity of the N(2)O reducers is largely unknown. In this study, we employed both culture-dependent and culture-independent approaches to identify N(2)O reducers in rice paddy soil. In a soil microcosm, N(2)O and succinate were added as the electron acceptor and donor, respectively, for N(2)O reduction. For the stable isotope probing (SIP) experiment, (13)C-labeled succinate was used to identify succinate-assimilating microbes under N(2)O-reducing conditions. DNA was extracted 24 h after incubation, and heavy and light DNA fractions were separated by density gradient ultracentrifugation. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and clone library analysis targeting the 16S rRNA and the N(2)O reductase gene were performed. For culture-dependent analysis, the microbes that elongated under N(2)O-reducing conditions in the presence of cell-division inhibitors were individually captured by a micromanipulator and transferred to a low-nutrient medium. The N(2)O-reducing ability of these strains was examined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Results of the SIP analysis suggested that Burkholderiales and Rhodospirillales bacteria dominated the population under N(2)O-reducing conditions, in contrast to the control sample (soil incubated with only (13)C-succinate). Results of the single-cell isolation technique also indicated that the majority of the N(2)O-reducing strains belonged to the genera Herbaspirillum (Burkholderiales) and Azospirillum (Rhodospirillales). In addition, Herbaspirillum strains reduced N(2)O faster than Azospirillum strains. These results suggest that Herbaspirillum spp. may have an important role in N(2)O reduction in rice paddy soils.
21678052	Two rice genotypes, Kalanamak 3119 (KN3119) and Pusa Basmati 1(PB1) differing in their optimum nitrogen requirements (30 and 120 kg/ha, respectively) were undertaken to study the expression of both high and low affinity ammonium transporter genes responsible for ammonium uptake. Exposing the roots of the seedlings of both the genotypes to increasing (NH(4))(2)SO(4) concentrations revealed that all the three families of rice AMT genes are expressed, some of which get altered in a genotype and concentration specific manner. This indicates that individual ammonium transporter genes have defined contributions for ammonium uptake and plant growth. Interestingly, in response to increasing nitrogen concentrations, a root specific high affinity gene, AMT1;3, was repressed in the roots of KN3119 but not in PB1 indicating the existence of a differential ammonium sensing mechanism. This also indicates that not only AMT1;3 is involved not only in ammonium uptake but may also in ammonium sensing. Further, if it can differentiate and could be used as a biomarker for nitrogen responsiveness. Expression analysis of low affinity AMT genes showed that, both AMT2;1 and AMT2;2 have high levels of expression in both roots and shoots and in KN3119 are induced at low ammonium concentrations. Expressions of AMT3 family genes were higher shoots than in the roots indicating that these genes are probably involved in the translocation and distribution of ammonium ions in leaves. The expression of the only high affinity AMT gene, AMT1;1, along with six low affinity AMT genes in the shoots suggests that low affinity AMTs in the shoots leaves are involved in supporting AMT1;1 to carry out its activities/function efficiently.
21678486	The rice green semi looper, Naranga aenescens Moore (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) causes severe damage to rice fields in Eastern Asia and Middle East. We demonstrate that two types of serine proteases are active in the midgut of the third instar larvae of N. aenescens, but trypsin-like proteases are considerably more active than chymotrypsin-like proteases. To develop better control strategies, purification and biochemical characterization of a major trypsin-like digestive protease from the midgut of the third instar larvae of N. aenescens was achieved by gel filtration and anion exchange chromatography. After the final purification step, the enzyme was purified 9.62-fold with a recovery of 16.1% and a specific activity of 4.12 U/mg protein and a molecular mass of approximately 88.5 kDa. Biochemical characterization indicated that the purified protease had highest activity at pH 10 and 30°C and was stable for up to 6 h under those conditions. Divalent cations, especially Ca2+, Mg2+, and Cu2+, increased the enzyme activity and synthetic inhibitors that target trypsin-like activity caused a significant reduction in caseinolytic activity. These data may be used to develop inhibitors that decrease the damage of N. aenescens to rice cultivars in the field.
21679014	African strains of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae contain fewer TAL effectors than Asian strains, and their contribution to pathogenicity is unknown. Systematic mutagenesis of tal genes was used to decipher the contribution of each of the eight TAL effector paralogs to pathogenicity of African X. oryzae pv. oryzae BAI3. A strain mutated in talC was severely affected in the production of disease symptoms. Analysis of growth in planta upon leaf-clip inoculation showed that mutant bacteria multiplied only at the site of inoculation at the apex of the leaf, suggesting a requirement for talC during colonization of vascular tissues. Such tissue-specific effect of a tal mutant is a novel phenotype, which has not yet been characterized in other xanthomonads. Microarray experiments comparing the host response of rice leaves challenged with BAI3(R) vs. BAI3(R)ΔtalC were performed to identify genes targeted by TalC. A total of 120 upregulated and 21 downregulated genes were identified, among them Os11N3, which is a member of the MtN3/saliva family. Based on semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and β-glucuronidase reporter assays, we show that Os11N3 is directly upregulated by TalC and identify a TalC DNA target box within the Os11N3 upstream sequence.
21679406	Pollen development in flowering plants requires strict control of the gene expression program and genetic information stability by mechanisms possibly including the miRNA pathway. However, our understanding of the miRNA pathway in pollen development remains limited, and the dynamic profile of miRNAs in developing pollen is unknown. Using next-generation sequencing technology, we pyrosequenced small RNA populations from rice uninucleate microspores to tricellular pollen and control sporophytic tissues at the genome-wide level. We identified 292 known miRNAs, including members of all 20 families conserved in plants, and 75 novel miRNAs. Of the 292 known miRNAs, 202 were expressed, with 103 enriched, in developing pollen. More than half of these novel miRNAs displayed pollen-or stage-specific expression. Furthermore, analyzing the 367 miRNAs and their predicted targets indicated that correlation in expression profiles of pollen-enriched known miRNAs and their targets significantly differs from that of sporophyte-enriched known miRNAs and their targets in some functional terms, while novel miRNAs appeared to negatively regulate their targets. Importantly, gene ontology abundance analysis demonstrated chromatin assembly and disassembly was important in the targets of bicellular pollen-expressed novel miRNAs. Principal component analysis revealed pollen of all three stages was discriminated from sporophytes, largely because of the novel and non-conserved known miRNAs. Our study, for the first time, revealed the differences in composition and expression profiles of miRNAs between developing pollen and sporophytes, with novel and non-conserved known miRNAs the main contributors. Our results suggest the important roles of the miRNA pathway in pollen development.
21679437	In the last few years, efforts have been made to identify large effect QTL for grain yield under drought in rice. However, identification of most precise and consistent QTL across the environments and genetics backgrounds is essential for their successful use in Marker-assisted Selection. In this study, an attempt was made to locate consistent QTL regions associated with yield increase under drought by applying a genome-wide QTL meta-analysis approach. The integration of 15 maps resulted in a consensus map with 531 markers and a total map length of 1821 cM. Fifty-three yield QTL reported in 15 studies were projected on a consensus map and meta-analysis was performed. Fourteen meta-QTL were obtained on seven chromosomes. MQTL1.2, MQTL1.3, MQTL1.4, and MQTL12.1 were around 700 kb and corresponded to a reasonably small genetic distance of 1.8 to 5 cM and they are suitable for use in marker-assisted selection (MAS). The meta-QTL for grain yield under drought coincided with at least one of the meta-QTL identified for root and leaf morphology traits under drought in earlier reports. Validation of major-effect QTL on a panel of random drought-tolerant lines revealed the presence of at least one major QTL in each line. DTY12.1 was present in 85% of the lines, followed by DTY4.1 in 79% and DTY1.1 in 64% of the lines. Comparative genomics of meta-QTL with other cereals revealed that the homologous regions of MQTL1.4 and MQTL3.2 had QTL for grain yield under drought in maize, wheat, and barley respectively. The genes in the meta-QTL regions were analyzed by a comparative genomics approach and candidate genes were deduced for grain yield under drought. Three groups of genes such as stress-inducible genes, growth and development-related genes, and sugar transport-related genes were found in clusters in most of the meta-QTL. Meta-QTL with small genetic and physical intervals could be useful in Marker-assisted selection individually and in combinations. Validation and comparative genomics of the major-effect QTL confirmed their consistency within and across the species. The shortlisted candidate genes can be cloned to unravel the molecular mechanism regulating grain yield under drought.
21679452	This study aimed to investigate the independent relationship between the use of various traditional biomass cooking fuels and the occurrence of cataract in young adults in rural Bangladesh. A hospital-based age- and sex-matched case-control study incorporating two control groups was conducted. Cases were cataract patients aged 18 and 49 years diagnosed on the basis of any opacity of the crystalline lens or its capsule and visual acuity poorer than 6/18 on the Log Mar Visual Acuity Chart in either eye, or who had a pseudophakic lens as a result of cataract surgery within the previous 5 years. Non-eye-disease (NE) controls were selected from patients from ENT or Orthopaedics departments and non-cataract eye-disease (NC) controls from the Ophthalmology department. Data pertaining to history of exposure to various cooking fuels and to established risk factors for cataract were obtained by face-to-face interview and analyzed using conditional logistic regression. Clean fuels were used by only 4% of subjects. A majority of males (64-80% depending on group) had never cooked, while the rest had used biomass cooking fuels, mainly wood/dry leaves, with only 6 having used rice straw and/or cow dung. All females of each group had used wood/dry leaves for cooking. Close to half had also used rice straw and/or cow dung. Among females, after controlling for family history of cataract and education and combining the two control groups, case status was shown to be significantly related to lifetime exposure to rice straw, fitted as a trend variable coded as never, ≤median of all exposed, >median of all exposed (OR=1.52, 95%CI 1.04-2.22), but not to lifetime exposure to wood/dry leaves. Case status among females showed an inverse association with ever use of cow dung as a cooking fuel (OR 0.43, 95%CI 0.22-0.81). In this population, where cooking is almost exclusively done using biomass fuels, cases of young adult cataract among females were more likely to have had an increased lifetime exposure to cooking with rice straw fuel and not to have cooked using cow dung fuel. There is a possibility that these apparent associations could have been the result of uncontrolled founding, for instance by wealth. The nature of the associations, therefore, needs to be further investigated.
21680604	It is necessary to obtain the transfer factor (TF) of long-lived radionuclides because soil type and vegetation can affect TF. We studied the food crops commonly consumed by the general public of Kanyakumari district of south India. The main focus was on rice, fruits, vegetables and tapioca because the consumption of these is high. The soil to rice TF for the radionuclides, (226)Ra, (232)Th, (238)U and (40) K are 8.8×10(-2), 14.2×10(-2), 5.8×10(-2) and 6.3×10(-2), respectively. The TF of tapioca for (226)Ra, (232)Th, (238)U and (40) K are 6.2×10(-2) , 11×10(-2), 1.9×10(-2) and 8.9×10(-2), respectively. For fruits and vegetables, the TFs are low. In the majority of the crops the non-edible parts accumulate more radionuclides than the edible parts.
21681465	For better understanding of silicon (Si)-mediated increase in metal tolerance in plants, the alterations in growth, mineral elements and anatomical features were investigated in rice seedlings exposed to Si (10 μM) and aluminium (Al; 50 μM). Al decreased seedling growth which was accompanied by an increase in Al accumulation. In contrast, addition of Si alleviated toxic effects of Al and led to the decrease in Al accumulation. Magnesium (Mg) and zinc (Zn) contents were decreased by Al; however, Si addition prevented decrease in Mg and Zn contents. Manganese (Mn) content was increased by Al while Si addition did not have a significant effect on Mn content under Al treatment. Al exposure decreased frequency of stomata and root hairs, length of root hairs and leaf epidermal cells, and distorted the structure and integrity of mesophyll cells and phloem; however, addition of Si reduced these abnormalities. Results showed that Si addition protected rice seedlings against Al toxicity by decreasing Al accumulation and by maintaining level of some mineral elements, and the key structures of leaf and root.
21681490	Drought stress is a major limiting factor for crop production and breeding for drought resistance is very challenging due to the complex nature of this trait. Previous studies in rice suggest that the upland japonica variety IRAT109 shows better drought resistance than the lowland indica variety Zhenshan 97. Numerous quantitative trait loci (QTL) have been previously mapped using a recombinant inbred line population derived from these two genotypes. In this study, near-isogenic lines (NILs) for 17 drought resistance-related QTL were constructed and phenotypic variations of these NILs were investigated under drought and normal conditions. Fourteen of these NILs showed significant phenotypic differences relative to the recurrent parent under at least one of the conditions and nine NILs showed significant differences under both conditions. After eliminating the effect of heading date on drought resistance, only four NILs carrying seven QTL (four for the same grain yield-related traits and three for the same or similar root traits QTL) showed differences consistent with the original QTL mapping results. One of these lines (N19) contains qFSR4, a QTL on chromosome 4 controlling root volume per tiller and co-segregating with flag leaf width and spikelet number per panicle. Using a population derived from N19, qFSR4 was mapped to a 38-kb region containing three open reading frames including the previously characterized NARROW LEAF 1 (NAL1) gene. NAL1, which controls leaf width and also affects vein patterning and polar auxin transport, is the most promising candidate genes for qFSR4. Our results underscore the importance of the development of NILs to confirm the identification of QTL affecting complex traits such as drought resistance.
21682316	It is imperative that there be a diet designed specifically to improve lipid profile in order to impede the progress of atherosclerosis. Because rice is a staple food in Asia, it will be chosen as the diet of interest. This study sets out to discover whether consumption of different processed rice diets may result in a change of the lipid profile. The experiment was done on male New Zealand white rabbits after 10 weeks of treatment with diet containing 0.5% cholesterol. The experimental diets include white rice (WR), brown rice (BR), and germinated brown rice (GBR). Among them, rabbits fed a GBR diet demonstrated significantly lower levels of total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), LDL/HDL, and atherogenic index (AI) and a higher level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL). Results from atherosclerotic plaque assessment further support the findings. The level of malondialdehyde (MDA), which acts as an indicator for oxidative stress, was also reduced by GBR diet. The positive change in lipid profile in the rabbits fed GBR appeared to correspond with the higher amounts of γ-oryzanol, tocopherol, and monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) content.
21682860	The conserved Notch signaling pathway regulates cell fate decisions and maintains stem cells in multicellular organisms. Up-regulation of Notch signaling is observed in several types of cancer and is causally involved in proliferation and survival of cancer cells. Thus, it is of great interest to look for anti-Notch reagents for therapeutic purposes. In model animal Drosophila, Notch signaling restricts selection of sensory organ precursors (SOPs) during external sensory (ES) organ development. To look for novel genes that can suppress Notch signaling, we performed a gain-of-function modifier screen to look for genes that enhance the phenotype of ectopic ES organs induced by overexpression of phyllopod, a gene required for SOP specification. From the gain-of-function screen, we discovered that overexpression of polished rice/tarsal-less (pri/tal) increases the numbers of ES organs as well as SOPs. pri/tal is a polycistronic gene that contains four short open reading frames encoding three 11-amino acid and one 32-amino acid peptides. Ectopic expression of the 11 amino-acid peptides recapitulates the pri/tal misexpression phenotype in ectopic ES organ formation. In situ hybridization experiment reveals that pri/tal mRNA is expressed in the SOPs of the chemosensory organs and the stretch-sensing chordotonal organs.In Drosophila wing development, the Notch signaling pathway mediates the formation of the dorsal-ventral (DV) compartmental boundary and the restriction of the vein width from the primordial veins, the proveins. We also found that pri/tal mRNA is expressed in the DV boundary and the longitudinal proveins, and overexpression of Pri/Tal peptides disrupts the DV boundary formation and helps to expand the width of the wing vein. Genetic analyses further show that a Notch loss-of-function allele strongly enhances these two phenotypes. Cut and E(spl)mβ are target genes of the Notch pathway in DV boundary formation and vein specification, respectively. We also found that overexpression of Pri/Tal peptides abolishes Cut expression and co-expression of Pri/Tal peptides with phyl strongly reduces E(spl)mβ expression. We show for the first time that the overexpression of Pri/Tal 11-amino acid peptides disrupts multiple Notch-mediated processes and reduces Notch target gene expression in Drosophila, suggesting that these peptides have novel antagonistic activity to the Notch pathway. Thus, our discovery might provide insights into designing new therapeutic reagents for Notch-related diseases.
21683570	A voltammetric electronic tongue (VE-tongue) was developed to discriminate the difference between Chinese rice wines in this research. Three types of Chinese rice wine with different marked ages (1, 3, and 5 years) were classified by the VE-tongue by principal component analysis (PCA) and cluster analysis (CA). The VE-tongue consisted of six working electrodes (gold, silver, platinum, palladium, tungsten, and titanium) in a standard three-electrode configuration. The multi-frequency large amplitude pulse voltammetry (MLAPV), which consisted of four segments of 1 Hz, 10 Hz, 100 Hz, and 1000 Hz, was applied as the potential waveform. The three types of Chinese rice wine could be classified accurately by PCA and CA, and some interesting regularity is shown in the score plots with the help of PCA. Two regression models, partial least squares (PLS) and back-error propagation-artificial neural network (BP-ANN), were used for wine age prediction. The regression results showed that the marked ages of the three types of Chinese rice wine were successfully predicted using PLS and BP-ANN.
21683590	A gene (axe) encoding the AXE thermostable esterase in Thermobifida fusca NTU22 was cloned into a Yarrowia lipolytica P01g host strain. Recombinant expression resulted in extracellular esterase production at levels as high as 70.94 U/ml in Hinton flask culture broth, approximately 140 times higher than observed in a Pichia pastoris expression system. After 72 h of fermentation by the Y. lipolytica transformant in the fed-batch fermentor, the fermentation broth accumulated 41.11 U/ml esterase activity. Rice bran, wheat bran, bagasse and corncob were used as hydrolysis substrates for the esterase, with corncob giving the best ferulic acid yield. The corncob was incubated with T. fusca xylanase (Tfx) for 12h and then with the AXE esterase for an additional 12h. Ferulic acid accumulated to 396 μM in the culture broth, a higher concentration than with esterase alone or with Tfx and esterase together for 24 h.
21683874	We generated transgenic rice plants overexpressing OsHAP3E which encodes a subunit of a CCAAT-motif binding HAP complex. The OsHAP3E-overexpressing plants showed various abnormal morphologies both in their vegetative and reproductive phases. The OsHAP3E-overexpressing plants were dwarf with erected leaves and similar to brassinosteroid mutants in the vegetative phase. In the reproductive phase, dense panicle was developed, and occasionally successive generation of lateral rachises and formation of double flowers were observed. These phenotypes indicate association of OsHAP3E with determination of floral meristem identity. On the other hand, repression of OsHAP3E by RNAi or by overexpressing chimeric repressor fusion constructs brought about lethality to transformed cells, and almost no transformant was obtained. This suggests that the OsHAP3E function is essential for rice cells. Altogether, our loss-of-function and gain-of-function analyses suggest that OsHAP3E plays important pleiotropic roles in vegetative and reproductive development or basic cellular processes in rice.
21683877	The esp1 mutant CM21 specifically exhibits reduced levels of cysteine-poor (CysP) prolamin bands with pIs of 6.65, 6.95, 7.10, and 7.35 in rice seed. Matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) analysis demonstrated that the bands with pIs 6.65, 6.95, and 7.35 are encoded by different structural genes. These results suggest that the Esp1 locus encodes a regulatory factor involved in the synthesis and/or accumulation of CysP prolamin molecules. Isoelectric focusing (IEF) analysis of CysP prolamins in chromosome substitution lines showed that structural genes for bands with pI values of 6.95, 7.10, and 7.35, which are reduced in esp1 mutant lines, are located as a gene cluster in the 44.2 cM region on chromosome 5.
21683881	The rice genome contains 5 isogenes for sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS), the key enzyme in sucrose synthesis; however, little is known about their transcriptional regulation. In order to determine the expression patterns of the SPS gene family in rice plants, we conducted an expression analysis in various tissues and developmental stages by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. At the transcript level, the rice SPS genes, particularly SPS1, were preferentially expressed in source tissues, whereas SPS2, SPS6, and SPS8 were expressed equally in source and sink tissues. We also investigated diurnal changes in SPS gene expression, SPS activity, and soluble sugar content in leaf blades. Interestingly, the expression of all the SPS genes, particularly that of SPS1 and SPS11, tended to be higher at night when the activation state of the SPS proteins was low, and the mRNA levels of SPS1 and SPS6 were negatively correlated with sucrose content. Furthermore, the temporal patterns of SPS gene expression and sugar content under continuous light conditions suggested the involvement of endogenous rhythm and/or sucrose sensing in the transcriptional regulation of SPS genes. Our data revealed differential expression patterns in the rice SPS gene family and part of the complex mechanisms of their transcriptional control.
21684577	In Japan in 1968, rice-oil contaminated by polychlorinated biphenyls and polychlorinated dibenzofurans caused severe food poisoning, termed "Yusho" (oil disease). Several previous studies attempted to evaluate the effects targeting officially-certified Yusho patients. However, these studies have several limitations such as the left-truncated nature of the registry or residual confounding arising from the referent population selection. We thus conducted an area-based standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) study using vital statistics. A severely affected area (Tamanoura area) was adopted as the exposure group, with a reference population from Nagasaki prefecture in Kyushu, which included the Tamanoura. A large number of residents in Tamanoura were exposed to the rice-oil (28% of all the certified cases as of 2009). We estimated SMRs of non-cancer and cancer diseases for the years 1968-2002. Shortly after the exposure, SMRs of all causes, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, pneumonia/bronchitis, and bronchus/lung cancer were elevated. In particular, SMRs of heart disease were 1.97 [95% confidence intervals (CI): 1.09-3.56] in 1968, 2.05 (95% CI: 1.16-3.60) in 1969, and 1.89 (95% CI: 1.05-3.41) in 1975. However, we did not observe clear increase in SMRs more than 10 years after the exposure. This study provides further evidence in Yusho, especially on acute effects on non-cancer mortality.
21684578	Like arsenic (As), antimony (Sb) is known to be a genotoxic element in vitro and in vivo. Sb is now recognized as a global contaminant and has aroused the global concerns recently. However, knowledge is scarce concerning the transfer of Sb from the environment to humans and the related hazards to human health. In this pilot study, the health risk and main pathway of long-term human exposure to Sb and As for residents around Chinese Xikuangshan (XKS) Sb mine, the world's largest Sb mine, were evaluated by dietary exposure and hair accumulations survey. The concentrations and species of Sb and As in food samples (n=209) from three main categories and six subcategories, and in hair samples (n=89) were determined. Residents in the vicinity of XKS had an estimated dietary intake of Sb (554 μg/day) which was 1.5 times higher than the tolerable daily intake (TDI) (Sb, 360 μg/day), whereas their dietary intake of inorganic As (107 μg/day) was slightly lower than the provisional tolerable weekly intake (PTWI) of 15 μg/kg BW/week (equal to 129 μg As/day). Hair Sb and As concentrations (Sb, 15.7 mg/kg, DW; As, 3.99 mg/kg, DW) in XKS residents are both above the normal/toxic level. Rice, vegetables (especially leafy vegetable), drinking water, and meat/poultry were the dominant dietary intake sources of Sb for the residents. In contrast, rice was the uniquely dominant dietary intake source of As. Antimonate (Sb(V)) was the dominant Sb species in vegetables, drinking water and residents' hairs. This study highlighted the difference of exposure characteristics between Sb and As. The preliminary results suggested that dietary exposures to Sb, rather than As, was the dominant health risk to local residents. Nevertheless, the adverse effects of As levels on the health of residents still can not be ignored since the elevated As concentrations in human hair have reached the critical level for health risks. In addition, this pilot study did not consider the possible Sb and As combined effects.
21684864	Rice blast, caused by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, is one of the most devastating diseases of rice. The specific interaction between rice and M. grisea is an important model system for studying the host-pathogen interaction mechanisms. In this article, we summarized recent research progresses on avirulence genes, which are the most important effectors in M. grisea with the focus on chromosome mapping, cloning method, functional analysis, and evolution study of avirulence genes, and the possible hotspot of the research on avirulence genes in the future was also been discussed. This knowledge may shed a light on the molecular mechanism underlying avirulence genes function and the possible interaction relationship between the host and the pathogen.
21684871	Meiosis is a highly conservative process, which plays important role in the life cycles of all sexually reproductive organisms, while the pairing, synapsis, and recombination are the key events in this process and have become the hotspots in meiosis studies. At present, we cannot observe the process of cross and recombination of chromosomes directly in plant meiosis, and generally conclude the process by analysis the genetic population. In the present study, we analyzed 32 DH lines using graphical genotypes, and found 4 chromosomes out of 32 DH lines had regional heterozygosis, which was further confirmed using STS markers. We suggested that it may cause by repair incompletion or mis-repair of chromsome. These results provid some directly evidence for explaining the mechanism of plant meiosis.
21684988	Prolamin is the dominant class of seed storage protein in grasses (Poaceae). Information on the 10 kDa multigene family coding for prolamins characteristic of the bambusoid-oryzoid grasses is limited. Two genes encoding 10 kDa prolamin were cloned and sequenced in the bambusoid species Phyllostachys aurea to assess the sequence diversity of this gene family in the oryzoid-bambusoid grasses. The genes, ~417 bp in length, were 96% similar at the DNA sequence level, differing in 12 base substitutions dispersed throughout the sequence. Eight of these mutations were nonsynonymous, leading to amino acid substitutions in the coding region, and one was nonsense, producing an amber stop codon. One gene had an open reading frame (ORF) of 139 amino acids, while the other gene had a shorter ORF (106 amino acids) due to the presence of a stop codon in the coding region and, thus, represents a pseudogene. Deduced proteins showed amino acid composition similar to that of rice. The study underscores the overall conserved nature of this multigene family and reflects considerable sequence divergence at the DNA and amino acid levels between the Oryza and the Phyllostachys genes. The systematic implication of the data is discussed in light of the inconsistent placement of Oryza in the Bambusoideae or Oryzoideae.
21685489	Plant-specific NAC transcription factors (TFs) play important roles in regulating diverse biological processes, including development, senescence, growth, cell division and responses to environmental stress stimuli. Within the soybean genome, we identified 152 full-length GmNAC TFs, including 11 membrane-bound members. In silico analysis of the GmNACs, together with their Arabidopsis and rice counterparts, revealed similar NAC architecture. Next, we explored the soybean Affymetrix array and Illumina transcriptome sequence data to analyse tissue-specific expression profiles of GmNAC genes. Phylogenetic analysis using stress-related NAC TFs from Arabidopsis and rice as seeding sequences identified 58 of the 152 GmNACs as putative stress-responsive genes, including eight previously reported dehydration-responsive GmNACs. We could design gene-specific primers for quantitative real-time PCR verification of 38 out of 50 newly predicted stress-related genes. Twenty-five and six GmNACs were found to be induced and repressed 2-fold or more, respectively, in soybean roots and/or shoots in response to dehydration. GmNAC085, whose amino acid sequence was 39%; identical to that of well-known SNAC1/ONAC2, was the most induced gene upon dehydration, showing 390-fold and 20-fold induction in shoots and roots, respectively. Our systematic analysis has identified excellent tissue-specific and/or dehydration-responsive candidate GmNAC genes for in-depth characterization and future development of improved drought-tolerant transgenic soybeans.
21685718	A microbial culture was prepared by co-cultivation of Lactobacillus paracasei, Pichia membranifaciens and Saccharomyces cereviciae for 48 hr at 30°C in rice bran extract medium, supplemented with dextrose. Oral administration of the resulting non-viable heat-inactivated microbial culture to common carp, Cyprinus carpio L., delivered in feed for four weeks, induced effective protection against experimental atypical Aeromonas salmonicida infection which causes "ulcer disease". After challenge of the carp by immersion, fish mortality and development of skin lesions such as hemorrhages and ulcers were significantly suppressed in carp treated with mixed microbial culture adsorbed on dry pellets relative to carp treated with medium or without extract. Atypical A. salmonicida was re-isolated from ulcerative lesions in parts of dead and surviving fish, but Aeromonas hydrophila and Flavobacterium sp. were also isolated from these fish, verifying microbial population changes during the progression of skin lesions. Among interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α, as well as CXC-α and CXC-β chemokines, gene expression of IL-1β was up regulated in the spleen and head kidney three weeks after administration of the mixed microbial culture. These results clearly show that this mixed microbial culture, delivered in feed, is effective in preventing A. salmonicida disease in carp.
21686154	The Asian rice gall midge, Orseolia oryzae (Wood-Mason), is a serious pest of rice. Investigations into the gall midge-rice interaction will unveil the underlying molecular mechanisms which, in turn, can be used as a tool to assist in developing suitable integrated pest management strategies. The insect gut is known to be involved in various physiological and biological processes including digestion, detoxification and interaction with the host. We have cloned and identified two genes, OoprotI and OoprotII, homologous to serine proteases with the conserved His(87), Asp(136) and Ser(241) residues. OoProtI shared 52.26% identity with mosquito-type trypsin from Hessian fly whereas OoProtII showed 52.49% identity to complement component activated C1s from the Hessian fly. Quantitative real time PCR analysis revealed that both the genes were significantly upregulated in larvae feeding on resistant cultivar than in those feeding on susceptible cultivar. These results provide an opportunity to understand the gut physiology of the insect under compatible or incompatible interactions with the host. Phylogenetic analysis grouped these genes in the clade containing proteases of phytophagous insects away from hematophagous insects.
21687735	Modifying plant architecture to increase photosynthesis efficiency and reduce shade avoidance response is very important for further yield improvement when crops are grown in high density. Identification of alleles controlling leaf angle in maize is needed to provide insight into molecular mechanism of leaf development and achieving ideal plant architecture to improve grain yield. The gene cloning was done by using comparative genomics, and then performing real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis to assay gene expression. The gene function was validated by sequence dissimilarity analysis and QTL mapping using a functional cleaved amplified polymorphism (CAP). The leaf angle is controlled by a major quantitative trait locus, ZmTAC1 (Zea mays L. Leaf Angle Control 1). ZmTAC1 has 4 exons encoding a protein with 263 amino acids, and its domains are the same as those of the rice OsTAC1 protein. ZmTAC1 was found to be located in the region of qLA2 by using the CAP marker and the F(2:3) families from the cross between Yu82 and Shen137. Real-time PCR analysis revealed ZmTAC1 expression was the highest in the leaf-sheath pulvinus, less in the leaf and shoot apical meristem, and the lowest in the root. A nucleotide difference in the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) between the compact inbred line Yu82 ("CTCC") and the expanded inbred line Shen137 ("CCCC") influences the expression level of ZmTAC1, further controlling the size of the leaf angle. Sequence verification of the change in the 5'-UTR revealed ZmTAC1 with "CTCC" was present in 13 compact inbred lines and ZmTAC1 with "CCCC" was present in 18 expanded inbred lines, indicating ZmTAC1 had been extensively utilized in breeding with regard to the improvement of the maize plant architecture.
21687963	Alzheimer's disease is seen mainly in individuals over the age of 65, and the morbidity rate increases with age. Regarding the health function of Monascus-fermented red mold rice (RMR), besides hypolipidemic and hypotensive effects, other health functions of RMR such as anti-oxidation, cancer prevention, anti-fatigue, and anti-obesity have also been reported. Many published studies have shown the efficacy of RMR in the prevention of Alzheimer's disease. The current article discusses and provides evidence to support the beneficial potential of RMR in the prevention of Alzheimer's disease by discussing the pathogenic factors of Alzheimer's disease and the secondary metabolites of Monascus.
21688039	A Rice chitinase-3 under enhance version of CaMV 35S was introduced into peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) through Agrobacterium mediation. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LB4404 was used harboring the binary vector (pB1333-EN4-RCG3) containing the chitinase (chit) and hygromycin resistance (hpt) gene as selectable marker. Putative transgenic shoots were regenerated and grown on MS medium supplemented with 5 mg/l BAP, 1 mg/l kinetin, and 30 mg/l hygromycin. Elongated shoots were examined for the presence of the integrated rice chitinase gene along with hygromycin gene as selectable. The integration pattern of transgene in the nuclear genome of the putative transformed plants (T(0)) was confirmed through Southern hybridization analysis of the genomic DNA. Survival rate of the in vitro regenerated plantlets was over 60% while healthy putatively transgenic (T(0)) plants with over 42% transformation frequency were produced through Agrobacterium mediated gene transfer of the rice chitinase gene and all the plants flowered and set seed normally. T1 plants were tested for resistance against Cercospora arachidicola by infection with the microspores. Transgenic strains exhibited a higher resistance than the control (non-transgenic plants). chitinase gene expression in highly resistant transgenic strains was compared to that of a susceptible control. A good correlation was observed between chitinase activity and fungal pathogen resistance.
21688166	In this study, the non-target effects of Bt rice "KMD2" expressing a Cry1Ab protein on the performance of the brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens, over multiple generations were evaluated under laboratory and field conditions. In the laboratory, BPH was reared to observe the impact of the Bt rice as compared to its parental non-Bt cultivar Xiushui 11, while the population dynamics and oviposition performance of BPH were investigated in the field. The survival of BPH nymphs fed Bt and non-Bt rice did not differ significantly. The nymph developmental duration of BPH was significantly delayed by the Bt rice by comparison with the non-Bt rice for the 1st and 2nd but not the 4th generation. Most importantly, the fecundity of BPH on the Bt rice was significantly decreased in every generation when compared with the non-Bt rice. In the field investigations, the population density of BPH nymphs was significantly lower in the Bt rice field. However, the temporal pattern of population dynamics of BPH adults was similar between the Bt and non-Bt rice, presumably due to migratory interference of the adults. In the Bt rice field, the percentage of tillers with eggs and the number of eggs per tiller were also significantly lower from tillering to mature stage. Additionally, Cry1Ab protein could not be detected in guts from single BPH adults. In general, our results suggest that the Bt rice "KMD2" could not stimulate an outbreak of BPH.
21688391	A simple and sensitive method based on aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES)-silica hybrid monolithic capillary microextraction (CME) combined with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) was developed for the determination of trace elements in biological samples. Under the optimized conditions, the adsorption capacities of APTES-silica hybrid monolithic capillary were 42.5, 55, 57.5, 82.5, 52.5, and 40 μg/m for Mn(II), Co(II), Ni(II), Cu(II), Cd(II), and Pb(II), respectively. The LODs were in the range of 1.2 (Cd)-14 (Pb) ng/L with the relative standard deviations (RSDs) of <5.1% (c=1 μg/L, n=7). The reproducibility of APTES-silica hybrid monolithic preparation ranged from 1.6 to 5.6% in one batch, and from 2.3 to 6.2% in batch-to-batch, respectively. To validate the developed method, two certified reference materials of NIES No. 10-b rice flour and GBW 07601 (GSH-1) human hair were analyzed and the determined values were in good agreement with the certified values. The proposed method has also been applied for the analysis of human hair and urine samples with the recoveries for the spiked samples in the range of 89-106%.
2168929	Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) were raised against Penicillium islandicum, a fungus commonly isolated from stored rice grains in South-East Asia. Mice were immunized by a direct, simple method; fresh cell-free surface washings from a solid agar slant culture were injected directly into the peritoneum without prior concentration. Hybridoma supernatants were screened by ELISA. Most of the mAbs raised cross-reacted with other storage fungi and/or uninfected rice grains but there were species-specific. One of these, PI01, was used to develop ELISA and DIP-STICK assays for the detection of P. islandicum in individual grains. All inoculated grains and approximately 90% of grains in natural infected samples from Indonesia tested positively, by ELISA, for P. islandicum. This result and those obtained for discoloured grains from both Indonesia and the Philippines, 32% and 14% respectively, are higher than those obtained by direct plating of surface-sterilized grains. Heat and periodate treatment of the PI01 antigen and binding on Western blots indicate that it is a glycoprotein of Mr greater than 90,000. Hyphae of all ages stained uniformly by immunofluorescence using the PI01 antibody but mature conidia stained only weakly.
21689368	In planta expression of cell wall degrading enzymes is a promising approach for developing optimized biomass feedstocks that enable low-cost cellulosic biofuels production. Transgenic plants could serve as either an enzyme source for the hydrolysis of pretreated biomass or as the primary biomass feedstock in an autohydrolysis process. In this study, two xylanase genes, Bacillus sp. NG-27 bsx and Clostridium stercorarium xynB, were expressed in maize (Zea mays) under the control of two different promoters. Severe phenotypic effects were associated with xylanase accumulation in maize, including stunted plants and sterile grains. Global expression of these xylanases from the rice ubiquitin 3 promoter (rubi3) resulted in enzyme accumulation of approximately 0.01 mg enzyme per gram dry weight, or approximately 0.1% of total soluble protein (TSP). Grain-specific expression of these enzymes from the rice glutelin 4 promoter (GluB-4) resulted in higher-level accumulation of active enzyme, with BSX and XynB accumulating up to 4.0% TSP and 16.4% TSP, respectively, in shriveled grains from selected T0 plants. These results demonstrate the potential utility of the GluB-4 promoter for biotechnological applications. The phenotypic effects of xylanase expression in maize presented here demonstrate the difficulties of hemicellulase expression in an important crop for cellulosic biofuels production. Potential alternate approaches to achieve xylanase accumulation in planta without the accompanying negative phenotypes are discussed.
21689369	An HD-Zip IV gene from wheat, TaGL9, was isolated using a Y1H screen of a cDNA library prepared from developing wheat grain. TaGL9 has an amino acid sequence distinct from other reported members of the HD-Zip IV family. The 3' untranslated region of TaGL9 was used as a probe to isolate a genomic clone of the TaGL9 homologue from a BAC library prepared from Triticum durum L. cv. Langdon. The full-length gene containing a 3-kb-long promoter region was designated TdGL9H1. Spatial and temporal activity of TdGL9H1 was examined using promoter-GUS fusion constructs in transgenic wheat, barley and rice plants. Whole-mount and histochemical GUS staining patterns revealed grain-specific expression of TdGL9H1. GUS expression was initially observed between 3 and 8 days after pollination (DAP) in embryos at the globular stage and adjacent to the embryo fraction of the endosperm. Expression was strongest in the outer cell layer of the embryo. In developed wheat and barley embryos, strong activity of the promoter was only detected in the main vascular bundle of the scutellum, which is known to be responsible for the uptake of nutrients from the endosperm during germination and the endosperm-dependent phase of seedling development. Furthermore, this pattern of GUS staining was observed in dry seeds several weeks after harvesting but quickly disappeared during imbibition. The promoter of this gene could be a useful tool for engineering of early seedling vigour and protecting the endosperm to embryo axis pathway from pathogens during grain desiccation and storage.
21689752	Previous studies have shown that erythropoietin (EPO) is neuroprotective in both in vivo and in vitro models of hypoxia ischemia. However these studies hold limited clinical translations because the underlying mechanism remains unclear and the key molecules involved in EPO-induced neuroprotection are still to be determined. This study investigated if tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) and its upstream regulator signaling molecule Janus kinase-2 (JAK-2) are critical in EPO-induced neuroprotection. Hypoxia ischemia (HI) was modeled in-vitro by oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) and in-vivo by a modified version of Rice-Vannucci model of HI in 10-day-old rat pups. EPO treated cells were exposed to AG490, an inhibitor of JAK-2 or TIMP-1 neutralizing antibody for 2h with OGD. Cell death, phosphorylation of JAK-2 and signal transducers and activators of transcription protein-3 (STAT-3), TIMP-1 expression, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activity were measured and compared with normoxic group. Hypoxic ischemic animals were treated one hour following HI and evaluated 48 h after. Our data showed that EPO significantly increased cell survival, associated with increased TIMP-1 activity, phosphorylation of JAK-2 and STAT-3, and decreased MMP-9 activity in vivo and in vitro. EPO's protective effects were reversed by inhibition of JAK-2 or TIMP-1 in both models. We concluded that JAK-2, STAT-3 and TIMP-1 are key mediators of EPO-induced neuroprotection during hypoxia ischemia injury.
21689798	The rapidly growing biodiesel industry has created a scenario, where it is both important and challenging to deal with the enormous amount of crude glycerol generated as an inherent by-product. With every 100 gallons of biodiesel produced, 5-10 gallons of the crude glycerol is left behind containing several impurities which makes its disposal difficult. The objective of the present investigation was to evaluate the impact of biodiesel-derived crude glycerol upon microbial growth and production of 1,3-propanediol by Citrobacter freundii. Five different grades of crude glycerol (obtained from biodiesel preparation using jatropha, soybean, sunflower, rice bran and linseed oils) were used. Crude glycerol caused significant inhibition of microbial growth and subsequently 1,3-propanediol production as compared to pure glycerol. Therefore, a process was developed for the treatment of crude glycerol using solvents before fermentation wherein four different non-polar solvents were examined yielding different grades of pretreated glycerol. Subsequently, the potential toxic effects of pretreated glycerol on the growth and 1,3-propanediol production by C. freundii was evaluated. In case of petroleum ether-treated crude glycerol obtained from jatropha & linseed and hexane-treated crude glycerol obtained from rice bran, the yields obtained were comparable to the pure glycerol. Similarly, soybean-derived glycerol gave comparable results after treatment with either hexane or petroleum ether.
21691041	A new extremely thermophilic, anaerobic, gram-negative bacterium, strain NTOU1, was enriched and isolated from acidic marine hydrothermal fluids off Gueishandao island in Taiwan with 0.5% starch and 0.5% maltose as carbon sources. This strain was capable of growth utilizing various sugars found in lignocellulosic biomass as well as xylan and cellulose, and produced ethanol, lactate, acetate, and CO(2) as fermentation products. The results of a 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis (1,520 bp) revealed NTOU1 to belong to the genus Thermoanaerobacterium. When tested for the ability to grow and produce ethanol from xylose or rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate at 70°C, the strain showed the highest levels of ethanol production (1.65 mol ethanol mol xylose(-1)) in a medium containing 0.5% xylose plus 0.5% yeast extract. Maximum ethanol production from the rice straw hemicellulose was 0.509 g g(-1), equivalent to 98.8% theoretical conversion efficiency. Low concentrations of inhibitors (derived from dilute acid hydrolysis) in the rice straw hemicellulose hydrolysate did not affect the ethanol yield. Thus, Thermoanaerobacterium strain NTOU1 has the potential to be used for ethanol production from hemicellulose.
21691789	Deoxynivalenol (DON) is the major mycotoxin produced by Fusarium fungi in grains. Food and feed contaminated with DON pose a health risk to humans and livestock. The risk can be reduced by enzymatic detoxification. Complete mineralization of DON by microbial cultures has rarely been observed and the activities turned out to be unstable. The detoxification of DON by reactions targeting its epoxide group or hydroxyl on carbon 3 is more feasible. Microbial strains that de-epoxidize DON under anaerobic conditions have been isolated from animal digestive system. Feed additives claimed to de-epoxidize trichothecenes enzymatically are on the market but their efficacy has been disputed. A new detoxification pathway leading to 3-oxo-DON and 3-epi-DON was discovered in taxonomically unrelated soil bacteria from three continents; the enzymes involved remain to be identified. Arabidopsis, tobacco, wheat, barley, and rice were engineered to acetylate DON on carbon 3. In wheat expressing DON acetylation activity, the increase in resistance against Fusarium head blight was only moderate. The Tri101 gene from Fusarium sporotrichioides was used; Fusarium graminearum enzyme which possesses higher activity towards DON would presumably be a better choice. Glycosylation of trichothecenes occurs in plants, contributing to the resistance of wheat to F. graminearum infection. Marker-assisted selection based on the trichothecene-3-O-glucosyltransferase gene can be used in breeding for resistance. Fungal acetyltransferases and plant glucosyltransferases targeting carbon 3 of trichothecenes remain promising candidates for engineering resistance against Fusarium head blight. Bacterial enzymes catalyzing oxidation, epimerization, and less likely de-epoxidation of DON may extend this list in future.
21692433
21692537	Agroecological zones within Bangladesh with low levels of arsenic in groundwater and soils produce rice that is high in arsenic with respect to other producing regions of the globe. Little is known about arsenic cycling in these soils and the labile fractions relevant for plant uptake when flooded. Soil porewater dynamics of field soils (n = 39) were recreated under standardized laboratory conditions to investigate the mobility and interplay of arsenic, Fe, Si, C, and other elements, in relation to rice grain element composition, using the dynamic sampling technique diffusive gradients in thin films (DGT). Based on a simple model using only labile DGT measured arsenic and dissolved organic carbon (DOC), concentrations of arsenic in Aman (Monsoon season) rice grain were predicted reliably. DOC was the strongest determinant of arsenic solid-solution phase partitioning, while arsenic release to the soil porewater was shown to be decoupled from that of Fe. This study demonstrates the dual importance of organic matter (OM), in terms of enhancing arsenic release from soils, while reducing bioavailability by sequestering arsenic in solution.
21693643
21693671	Despite the accumulation of data on the genetic and molecular understanding of heterosis, there is little information on the regulation of heterosis at the physiological level. In this study, we performed a quantitative analysis of endogenous gibberellin (GA) content and expression profiling of the GA metabolism and signaling genes to investigate the possible relationship between GA signaling and heterosis for seedling development in rice (Oryza sativa). The materials used were an incomplete diallele set of 3 × 3 crosses and the six parents. In the growing shoots of the seedlings at 20 d after sowing, significant positive correlations between the contents of some GA species and performance and heterosis based on shoot dry mass were detected. Expression analyses of GA-related genes by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that 13 out of the 16 GA-related genes examined exhibited significant differential expression among the F1 hybrid and its parents, acting predominantly in the modes of overdominance and positive dominance. Expression levels of nine genes in the hybrids displayed significant positive correlations with the heterosis of shoot dry mass. These results imply that GAs play a positive role in the regulation of heterosis for rice seedling development. In shoots plus root axes of 4-d-old germinating seeds that had undergone the deetiolation, mimicking normal germination in soil, the axis dry mass was positively correlated with the content of GA₂₉ but negatively correlated with that of GA₁₉. Our findings provide supporting evidence for GAs playing an important regulatory role in heterosis for rice seedling development.
21694767	Circadian clocks provide an adaptive advantage through anticipation of daily and seasonal environmental changes. In plants, the central clock oscillator is regulated by several interlocking feedback loops. It was shown that a substantial proportion of the Arabidopsis genome cycles with phases of peak expression covering the entire day. Synchronized transcriptome cycling is driven through an extensive network of diurnal and clock-regulated transcription factors and their target cis-regulatory elements. Study of the cycling transcriptome in other plant species could thus help elucidate the similarities and differences and identify hubs of regulation common to monocot and dicot plants. Using a combination of oligonucleotide microarrays and data mining pipelines, we examined daily rhythms in gene expression in one monocotyledonous and one dicotyledonous plant, rice and poplar, respectively. Cycling transcriptomes were interrogated under different diurnal (driven) and circadian (free running) light and temperature conditions. Collectively, photocycles and thermocycles regulated about 60% of the expressed nuclear genes in rice and poplar. Depending on the condition tested, up to one third of oscillating Arabidopsis-poplar-rice orthologs were phased within three hours of each other suggesting a high degree of conservation in terms of rhythmic gene expression. We identified clusters of rhythmically co-expressed genes and searched their promoter sequences to identify phase-specific cis-elements, including elements that were conserved in the promoters of Arabidopsis, poplar, and rice. Our results show that the cycling patterns of many circadian clock genes are highly conserved across poplar, rice, and Arabidopsis. The expression of many orthologous genes in key metabolic and regulatory pathways is diurnal and/or circadian regulated and phased to similar times of day. Our results confirm previous findings in Arabidopsis of three major classes of cis-regulatory modules within the plant circadian network: the morning (ME, GBOX), evening (EE, GATA), and midnight (PBX/TBX/SBX) modules. Identification of identical overrepresented motifs in the promoters of cycling genes from different species suggests that the core diurnal/circadian cis-regulatory network is deeply conserved between mono- and dicotyledonous species.
21695282	Genealogical patterns in different genomic regions may be different due to the joint influence of gene flow and selection. The existence of two subspecies of cultivated rice provides a unique opportunity for analyzing these effects during domestication. We chose 66 accessions from the three rice taxa (about 22 each from Oryza sativa indica, O. sativa japonica, and O. rufipogon) for whole-genome sequencing. In the search for the signature of selection, we focus on low diversity regions (LDRs) shared by both cultivars. We found that the genealogical histories of these overlapping LDRs are distinct from the genomic background. While indica and japonica genomes generally appear to be of independent origin, many overlapping LDRs may have originated only once, as a result of selection and subsequent introgression. Interestingly, many such LDRs contain only one candidate gene of rice domestication, and several known domestication genes have indeed been "rediscovered" by this approach. In summary, we identified 13 additional candidate genes of domestication.
21695689	Global mean surface temperature has been predicted to increase by 1.8-4°C within this century, accompanied by an increase in the magnitude and frequency of extreme temperature events. Developing rice cultivars better adapted to non-optimal temperatures is essential to increase rice yield in the future and, hence, understanding the molecular response of rice to temperature stress is necessary. In this study, we investigated the proteomic responses of leaves of 24-day-old rice seedlings to sudden temperature changes. Rice seedlings grown at 28/20°C (day/night) were subjected to 3-day exposure to 12/5°C or 20/12°C (day/night) for low-temperature stress, and 36/28°C or 44/36°C (day/night) for high-temperature stress, followed by quantitative label-free shotgun proteomic analysis on biological triplicates of each treatment. Out of over 1100 proteins identified in one or more temperature treatments, more than 400 were found to be responsive to temperature stress. Of these, 43, 126 and 47 proteins were exclusively found at 12/5, 20/12 and 44/36°C (day/night), respectively. Our results showed that a greater change occurs in the rice leaf proteome at 20/12°C (day/night) in comparison to other non-optimal temperature regimes. In addition, our study identified more than 20 novel stress-response proteins.
21696349	The aim of this study was to develop a novel colon targeted matrix tablet containing Metronidazole (MTZ) as model drug. Matrix tablets were prepared using Assam Bora rice starch, which is essentially a natural polymer, by wet granulation technique. The granules prepared were subjected to evaluation for angle of repose, bulk density, compressibility index, Hausner's ratio, total porosity, and drug content. The developed tablets were also analysed for thickness, diameter, weight variation tests, tablet crushing strength, friability, and in vitro release studies. The granules displayed satisfactory flow properties, compressibility, Hausner's ratio and drug content. Almost all the tablet formulations showed acceptable pharmacotechnical properties and complied with the in-house developed specifications for the tested parameters. Drug release study confirmed to the initial fast release in the acidic environment of surface adhered drug followed by slow release in alkaline media subsequently leading to fast and major drug release in the caecal content. Furthermore, the release of drug was unaffected by the hostile environment of GIT which can be ascribed to microbial degradation, promptly followed by enzymatic degradation. Curve fitting proved that the drug release from the tablets followed the Higuchi model. In vitro bacterial inhibition studies illustrated that the released drugs were able to diffuse through agar medium, inhibiting MTZ sensitive Bacteroides fragilis. The selected MTZ matrix tablets (F1-F6) had zones of inhibition paralleling those of the marketed formulation.
21696979	The impact of UV-B radiation on photosynthetic related parameters was studied in Oryza sativa L. cv. Safari plants, after an UV-B irradiation performed 1h per day for 7days (between 8 and 14days after germination) with a ten narrow-band (λ 311nm) that resulted in a total biological effective UV-B (UVB(BE)) of 2.975kJm(-2)day(-1) and a total of 20.825kJm(-2). Gas exchange measurements were severely affected, showing reductions higher than 80% in net photosynthesis (P(n)), stomatal conductance and photosynthetic capacity (A(max)), 1day after the end of the 7-days UV-B treatment. Similarly, several fluorescence parameters (F(o), F(v)/F(m), Fv'/Fm', ϕ(e), q(P) and q(E)) and thylakoid electron transport (involving both photosystems) were also severely reduced. Concomitantly, a decline of xanthophylls, carotenes, Chl a, Chl (a+b) and Chl (a/b) values was accompanied by the increase of the lipoperoxidation level in chloroplast membranes, altogether reflecting a loss of protection against oxidative stress. Seven days after of the end of UV-B treatment, most fluorescence parameters recovered, but in P(n), A(max), thylakoid electron transport rates, Chl a and lipid classes, as well as the level of lipoperoxidation, the impacts were even stronger than immediately after the end of stress, denoting a clear loss of performance of photosynthetic structures. However, only a moderate impact on total lipids was observed, accompanied by some changes in the relative weight of the major chloroplast membrane lipid classes, with emphasis on the decrease of MGDG and the increase of phospholipids. That suggested an ability to de novo lipid synthesis allowing qualitative changes in the lipid matrix. Notably, the leaves developed after the end of UV-B irradiation showed a much lower impact, with significantly decreased values only in P(n) and g(s), rises in several fluorescence parameters, thylakoid electron transport, photosynthetic pigments (xanthophylls and chls) and DEPS, while lipid classes presented values close to control. The results showed a global impact of UV-B in the photosynthetic structures and performance in irradiated leaves, but revealed also a low impairment extent in the leaves entirely developed after the end of the irradiation, reflecting a remarkable recovery of the plant after the end of stress, what could constitute an advantage under occasional UV-B exposure events in this vital worldwide staple food crop.
2169702	Dietary fiber lowers atherogenic serum lipids and blood pressure and improves glucose metabolism. We compared in 24 mildly hypercholesterolemic men the effects of adding 11.8 g dietary fiber/d from each of three cereal brans (wheat, rice, and oat) to a low-fiber diet for 4 wk each. A double-blind, crossover design incorporated brans into bread and muffins. Plasma total- and low-density-lipoprotein-cholesterol concentrations were significantly lowered only by oat bran. Compared with wheat bran, the ratios of plasma high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol to total cholesterol and of apolipoprotein A-I to B were significantly increased with oat bran (both by 4.7%, P less than 0.05), and rice bran (2.3%, P less than 0.05, and 3.9%, P less than 0.05, respectively). Blood pressure, blood glucose, and serum insulin responses to a common test meal were unaltered. Oat and rice bran exert a small but potentially useful effect on plasma lipoprotein risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
21697258	Cadmium (Cd) is a heavy metal toxic to humans and the accumulation of Cd in the rice grain is a major agricultural problem, particularly in Asia. The role of the iron transporter OsNRAMP1 in Cd uptake and transport in rice was investigated here. An OsNRAMP1:GFP fusion protein was localized to the plasma membrane in onion epidermal cells. The growth of yeast expressing OsNRAMP1 was impaired in the presence of Cd compared with yeast transformed with an empty vector. Moreover, the Cd content of OsNRAMP1-expressing yeast exceeded that of the vector control. The expression of OsNRAMP1 in the roots was higher in a high Cd-accumulating cultivar (Habataki) than a low Cd-accumulating cultivar (Sasanishiki) regardless of the presence of Cd, and the amino acid sequence of OsNRAMP1 showed 100% identity between Sasanishiki and Habataki. Over-expression of OsNRAMP1 in rice increased Cd accumulation in the leaves. These results suggest that OsNRAMP1 participates in cellular Cd uptake and Cd transport within plants, and the higher expression of OsNRAMP1 in the roots could lead to an increase in Cd accumulation in the shoots. Our results indicated that OsNRAMP1 is an important protein in high-level Cd accumulation in rice.
21697731	Xuezhikang, extract of red yeast rice, is a traditional Chinese medicine with multiple cardioprotective effect. It contains a family of naturally occurring statins, such as lovastatin. Tissue factor (TF) is overexpressed in macrophages of lipid core plaques, which display high procoagulant activity and seem to be a potentially target for anti-atherothrombosis. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to explore the effect and possible molecular mechanisms of xuezhikang on inhibiting TF expression and hypercoagulable state and the differences compared with lovastatin. Our results showed that xuezhikang significantly suppressed oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced TF expression in macrophages in a concentration-dependent manner. Xuezhikang reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase activity by decreasing membrane translocation of p47 through inhibition of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 activation. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate inhibitor (diphenyleneiodonium) also inhibited the oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced TF expression, similar to the effects of xuezhikang. Furthermore, consistent with the severity of aortic atherosclerosis, xuezhikang (300 mg·kg·d) significantly reduced blood coagulation activation and TF expression in high-cholesterol diet-induced atherosclerotic rats. In addition, xuezhikang was more potent than lovastatin on inhibiting the expression of TF and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase activation. These observations provide evidences that inhibition of xuezhikang on hypercoagulation and TF expression may partly account for its cardioprotective benefits.
21698401	The knowledge of the impact of elevated ground-level O(3) below ground the agro-ecosystem is limited. A field experiment in China Ozone Free-Air Concentration Enrichment (FACE-O(3)) facility on a rice-wheat rotation system was carried out to investigate responses of anoxygenic phototrophic purple bacteria (AnPPB) to elevated ground-level O(3). AnPPB community structures and sizes in paddy soil were monitored by molecular approaches including PCR-DGGE and real-time quantitative PCR based upon the pufM gene on three typical rice growth stages. Repetitive sequence-based PCR (rep-PCR) in combination with culture-reliant method was conducted to reveal changes in genotypic diversity. Elevated ground-level O(3) statistically reduce AnPPB abundance and percentage in total bacterial community in flooded rice soil via decreasing their genotypic diversity and metabolic versatility. Concomitantly, their community composition changed after rice anthesis stage under elevated ground-level O(3). Our results from AnPPB potential responses imply that continuously elevated ground-level O(3) in the future would eventually harm the health of paddy ecosystem through negative effect on soil microorganisms.
21698458	Trehalose plays an important role in metabolic regulation and abiotic stress tolerance in a variety of organisms. In plants, its biosynthesis is catalyzed by two key enzymes: trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (TPS) and trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase (TPP). The genome of rice (Oryza sativa) contains 11 OsTPS genes, and only OsTPS1 shows TPS activity. To demonstrate the physiological function of OsTPS1, we introduced it into rice and found that OsTPS1 overexpression improved the tolerance of rice seedling to cold, high salinity and drought treatments without other significant phenotypic changes. In transgenic lines overexpressing OsTPS1, trehalose and proline concentrations were higher than in the wild type and some stress-related genes were up-regulated, including WSI18, RAB16C, HSP70, and ELIP. These results demonstrate that OsTPS1 may enhance the abiotic stress tolerance of plants by increasing the amount of trehalose and proline, and regulating the expression of stress-related genes. Furthermore, we found that overexpression of some Class II TPSs also enhanced plant tolerance of abiotic stress. This work will help to clarify the role of trehalose metabolism in abiotic stress response in higher plants.
21699437	Global warming is one of the most serious challenges facing us today. It may be linked to the increase in atmospheric CO2 and other greenhouse gases (GHGs), leading to a rise in sea level, notable shifts in ecosystems, and in the frequency and intensity of wild fires. There is a strong interest in stabilizing the atmospheric concentration of CO2 and other GHGs by decreasing carbon emission and/or increasing carbon sequestration. Biotic sequestration is an important and effective strategy to mitigate the effects of rising atmospheric CO2 concentrations by increasing carbon sequestration and storage capacity of ecosystems using plant photosynthesis and by decreasing carbon emission using biofuel rather than fossil fuel. Improvement of photosynthetic carbon assimilation, using transgenic engineering, potentially provides a set of available and effective tools for enhancing plant carbon sequestration. In this review, firstly different biological methods of CO2 assimilation in C3, C4 and CAM plants are introduced and three types of C4 pathways which have high photosynthetic performance and have evolved as CO2 pumps are briefly summarized. Then (i) the improvement of photosynthetic carbon assimilation of C3 plants by transgenic engineering using non-C4 genes, and (ii) the overexpression of individual or multiple C4 cycle photosynthetic genes (PEPC, PPDK, PCK, NADP-ME and NADP-MDH) in transgenic C3 plants (e.g. tobacco, potato, rice and Arabidopsis) are highlighted. Some transgenic C3 plants (e.g. tobacco, rice and Arabidopsis) overexpressing the FBP/SBPase, ictB and cytochrome c6 genes showed positive effects on photosynthetic efficiency and growth characteristics. However, over the last 28 years, efforts to overexpress individual, double or multiple C4 enzymes in C3 plants like tobacco, potato, rice, and Arabidopsis have produced mixed results that do not confirm or eliminate the possibility of improving photosynthesis of C3 plants by this approach. Finally, a prospect is provided on the challenges of enhancing carbon assimilation of C3 plants using transgenic engineering in the face of global warming, and the trends of the most promising approaches to improving the photosynthetic performance of C3 plants.
21700452	The gases and chars produced during fast pyrolysis of maize stalk, rice straw, cotton straw and rice husk at temperatures ranging from 600 to 1000°C were studied by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, non-dispersive infrared technique, thermal conductivity detection method, ultimate analysis, X-ray diffraction, helium density measurement and N(2) adsorption method. The gas yield increased by more than 80% from 600 to 1000°C, while the char and liquid yield decreased. The content of CO(2), CO and CH(4) accounted for more than 86%. The CO and CH(4) content increased with temperature, while the CO(2) content decreased. The hydroxyl, aliphatic CH, carbonyl, olefinic CC and ether groups were lost above 800°C. Carbon skeleton shrinkage increased by more than 23% when the temperature increased from 600 to 1000°C. Maximum porosity appeared at 900°C. This study revealed the relationships between gas composition/char properties and pyrolysis temperature under high heating rate conditions.
21700886	A quantity exists by which one can identify the approach of a dynamical system to the state of criticality, which is hard to identify otherwise. This quantity is the variance κ(1)(≡<χ(2)> - <χ>(2)) of natural time χ, where <f(χ)> = Σp(k)f(χ(k)) and p(k) is the normalized energy released during the kth event of which the natural time is defined as χ(k) = k/N and N stands for the total number of events. Then we show that κ(1) becomes equal to 0.070 at the critical state for a variety of dynamical systems. This holds for criticality models such as 2D Ising and the Bak-Tang-Wiesenfeld sandpile, which is the standard example of self-organized criticality. This condition of κ(1) = 0.070 holds for experimental results of critical phenomena such as growth of rice piles, seismic electric signals, and the subsequent seismicity before the associated main shock.
2170104	The extent of carbohydrate digestion and absorption from two diets including either instant bean flakes (174 g/d) or potato flakes (102 g/d) was measured in seven ileostomy subjects during a 2-day period. Test foods contributed 40 per cent of the total dietary starch intake (160 g/d), the remainder coming from rice and white bread. Overall, 4 per cent and 0.7 per cent of the dietary starch consumed remained unabsorbed during the bean and potato periods, respectively. Between 9.0 and 10.9 per cent of dietary bean starch and less than 1.7 per cent of potato starch were not absorbed. Dietary fibre and resistant starch were completely recovered in ileostomy effluents. In separate meal tests with 40 g starch, beans gave lower blood glucose (P less than 0.05) and serum insulin (P less than 0.01) responses than potatoes. Dietary starch malabsorption from leguminous foods is less than previously estimated and does not explain the attenuated glycaemic and insulinaemic responses.
21701100	In this study, the amount of copper or cadmium adsorbed using waste biomass (i.e., coffee grounds (CG) and rice bran (RB)) was investigated. The amount of crude protein in defatted CG (D-CG) or RB (D-RB) was greater than that in CG or RB, respectively. The amount of copper or cadmium adsorbed using CG was greater than that using RB. Additionally, the amount of copper or cadmium adsorbed was not affected by the presence of fat in CG. Adsorption data was fitted to the Freundlich equation, and the correlation coefficients were in the range of 0.794-0.991. The main adsorption mechanism was thought to be monolayer adsorption onto the surface of the waste biomass. The adsorption rate data was fitted to the pseudo-second-order model, and the correlation coefficient average was in the range of 0.891-0.945. This result showed that the rate-limiting step may be chemisorption. Moreover, the amount of copper or cadmium desorbed from CG or RB using 0.01 mol/L or 1.00 mol/L HNO(3) was investigated. Desorption with 0.01 mol/L HNO(3) resulted in the recovery of 86-97% of the copper and cadmium, indicating that copper or cadmium that was adsorbed using waste biomass was recoverable.
21701860	In this study, host-specific forms of the blast pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) were characterised from distinct cropping locations using a combination of molecular and biological assays. Finger millet blast populations in East Africa revealed a continuous genetic variation pattern and lack of clonal lineages, with a wide range of haplotypes. M. oryzae populations lacked the grasshopper (grh) element (96%) and appeared distinct to those in Asia. An overall near equal distribution (47-53%) of the mating types MAT1-1 and MAT1-2, high fertility status (84-89%) and the dominance of hermaphrodites (64%) suggest a strong sexual reproductive potential. Differences in pathogen aggressiveness and lack of cultivar incompatibility suggest the importance of quantitative resistance. Rice blast populations in West Africa showed a typical lineage-based structure. Among the nine lineages identified, three comprised ~90% of the isolates. Skewed distribution of the mating types MAT1-1 (29%) and MAT1-2 (71%) was accompanied by low fertility. Clear differences in cultivar compatibility within and between lineages suggest R gene-mediated interactions. Distinctive patterns of genetic diversity, sexual reproductive potential and pathogenicity suggest adaptive divergence of host-specific forms of M. oryzae populations linked to crop domestication and agricultural intensification.
21703279	To evaluate the possibility of an unknown protein to be a resistant gene against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, a different mode of pseudo amino acid composition (PseAAC) is proposed to formulate the protein samples by integrating the amino acid composition, as well as the Chaos games representation (CGR) method. Some numerical comparisons of triangle, quadrangle and 12-vertex polygon CGR are carried to evaluate the efficiency of using these fractal figures in classifiers. The numerical results show that among the three polygon methods, triangle method owns a good fractal visualization and performs the best in the classifier construction. By using triangle + 12-vertex polygon CGR as the mathematical feature, the classifier achieves 98.13% in Jackknife test and MCC achieves 0.8462.
21705276	The purpose of this study was to describe food consumption practices of Filipino-American adults, to describe how they respond to a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) as a function of acculturation and sex, and to suggest modifications to the FFQ to improve dietary assessment among Filipino-Americans. Twenty-one Filipino-American women and 14 Filipino-American men (aged 30-60 years) who varied on acculturation level were recruited from the general community of San Diego, California. Participants completed a focus group and rated the Fred Hutchinson Food Frequency Questionnaire. The most commonly eaten food items among Filipino-Americans were white rice, fish or meat, vegetables, and fruit. Most (76%) participants reported that the Fred Hutchinson Food Frequency Questionnaire lacked commonly eaten Filipino-American food. Commonly consumed food, such as adobo, lumpia, and pansit, might be added to a revised FFQ; doing so may improve recall and face validity among Filipino-Americans.
21705388	Studies of rice protein expression have increased considerably with the development of rice functional genomics. In order to obtain reliable expression results in western blotting, information on appropriate reference proteins is necessary for data normalization. To date, no published study has identified and systematically validated reference proteins suitable for the investigation of rice protein expression. In this study, nine candidate proteins were selected and their specific antibodies were obtained through immunization of rabbits with either recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli or synthesized peptides. Western blotting was carried out to detect the expression of target proteins in a set of 10 rice samples representing different rice tissues/organs at different developmental stages. The expression stability of the proteins was analysed using geNorm and Microcal Origin 6.0 software. The results indicated that heat shock protein (HSP) and elongation factor 1-α (eEF-1α) were the most constantly expressed among all rice proteins tested throughout all developmental stages, while the proteins encoded by conventional internal reference genes fluctuated in amount. Comparison among the profiling of translation and transcription [expressed sequence tags (EST) and massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS)] revealed that a correlation existed. Based on the standard curves derived from the antigen-antibody reaction, the concentrations of HSP and eEF-1α proteins in rice leaves were ∼0.12%. Under the present experimental conditions, the lower limits of detection for HSP and eEF-1α proteins in rice were 0.24 ng and 0.06 ng, respectively. In conclusion, the reference proteins selected in this study, and the corresponding antibodies, can be used in qualitative and quantitative analysis of rice proteins.
21705640	Because plant reproductive development occurs only in adult plants, the juvenile-to-adult phase change is an indispensable part of the plant life cycle. We identified two allelic mutants, peter pan syndrome-1 (pps-1) and pps-2, that prolong the juvenile phase in rice (Oryza sativa) and showed that rice PPS is an ortholog of Arabidopsis thaliana CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC1. The pps-1 mutant exhibits delayed expression of miR156 and miR172 and the suppression of GA biosynthetic genes, reducing the GA(3) content in this mutant. In spite of its prolonged juvenile phase, the pps-1 mutant flowers early, and this is associated with derepression of RAP1B expression in pps-1 plants independently of the Hd1-Hd3a/RFT1 photoperiodic pathway. PPS is strongly expressed in the fourth and fifth leaves, suggesting that it regulates the onset of the adult phase downstream of MORI1 and upstream of miR156 and miR172. Its ability to regulate the vegetative phase change and the time of flowering suggests that rice PPS acquired novel functions during the evolution of rice/monocots.
21705642	Aliphatic alcohols naturally exist in many organisms as important cellular components; however, their roles in extracellular polymer biosynthesis are poorly defined. We report here the isolation and characterization of a rice (Oryza sativa) male-sterile mutant, defective pollen wall (dpw), which displays defective anther development and degenerated pollen grains with an irregular exine. Chemical analysis revealed that dpw anthers had a dramatic reduction in cutin monomers and an altered composition of cuticular wax, as well as soluble fatty acids and alcohols. Using map-based cloning, we identified the DPW gene, which is expressed in both tapetal cells and microspores during anther development. Biochemical analysis of the recombinant DPW enzyme shows that it is a novel fatty acid reductase that produces 1-hexadecanol and exhibits >270-fold higher specificity for palmiltoyl-acyl carrier protein than for C16:0 CoA substrates. DPW was predominantly targeted to plastids mediated by its N-terminal transit peptide. Moreover, we demonstrate that the monocot DPW from rice complements the dicot Arabidopsis thaliana male sterile2 (ms2) mutant and is the probable ortholog of MS2. These data suggest that DPWs participate in a conserved step in primary fatty alcohol synthesis for anther cuticle and pollen sporopollenin biosynthesis in monocots and dicots.
21706293	Carbaryl application to soil collected from a rice fallow field was relatively less toxic to viable estimates of cyanobacteria and microalgae under nonflooded conditions than under flooded conditions. Application of 1-naphthol, the hydrolysis product of carbaryl, to soil under both the regimes increased the population of both cyanobacteria and microalgae. Soil application of carbaryl and 1-naphthol in combination, up to 1.0 kg ha(-1), was nontoxic to the viable population. The toxicity exerted by carbaryl and 1-naphthol towards growth, measured in terms of chlorophyll a, and nitrogenase activity was more pronounced in Anabaena spp. than in Nostoc spp.
21706885	Yusho is an incidence of food poisoning caused by rice bran oil in 1968. Its main causal agent is considered as 2,3,4,7,8-penta-chlorodibenzofuran (PeCDF). The patients have been suffered by the various symptoms, and their blood concentration of PeCDF is still higher than the general population. The purpose of this study is to estimate the change rate of PeCDF concentration among the examinees of annual health examination of Yusho patients. PeCDF concentration of 118 men and 140 women who received the health examination four times or more from 2001 to 2008 was statistically analyzed. The estimated annual change rate of the PeCDF concentration was low; 1.43% reduction and 1.03% increase were observed, respectively, for men and women who have low PeCDF concentration, and 3.6% and 3.7% reductions, respectively, for men and women who have high concentration of PeCDF. The reduction rate was associated with age and smoking habit in men, and drinking habit in women.
21706886	Blood levels of dioxins in Yusho patients have been measured for 10 years. The purposes of this study were to determine the half-lives of dioxins on the basis of the data obtained from Yusho patients and to compare the half-lives of the compounds. Linear regression analysis was performed using the binary logarithmic value of each dioxin level as the dependent variable and the year of measurement as the independent variable. The linear coefficient obtained from this linear regression analysis was the reciprocal number of the half-life. The relationship between the blood dioxin levels estimated in 2004 and the reciprocal number of half-life was evaluated. Of the studied dioxins, the concentrations of some compounds were strongly correlated with that of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF. For 2 such compounds, the correlation coefficient of the reciprocal numbers of half-life were greater than the correlation coefficient of the logarithmic values of the estimated concentrations. Of these 2 compounds, the concentration of 3,3,4,4,5,5-HxCB was at least 50 times less than that of the 2,3,4,7, 8-PeCDF in rice oil: however, their current concentrations are equivalent. Patients with high levels of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF also showed high levels of 3,3,4,4,5,5-HxCB. Yusho patients may have a disease-specific mechanism to supply 3,3,4,4,5,5-HxCB.
21706891	Forty two years have passed since the outbreak of Kanemi rice oil poisoning, namely, Yusho in the western Japan. However, even now the Yusho patients have been still suffering from several objective and subjective symptoms. In order to improve or, if possible, to cure such symptoms, the most important therapeutic treatment is considered to actively excrete the causative agents, that is, polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) from the bodies of the patients and to reduce their body burdens. In rats, chlorophyll and dietary fiber have been shown to promote the fecal excretion of PCDFs and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and to reduce their levels in rats. In this study, we have examined whether such kinds of effect are also observed by fermented brown rice with Aspergillus oryzae (FBRA) containing 5% spirulina, which is so-called spirulina HI * GENKI, the health food and relatively rich with chlorophyll and dietary fiber, in eighteen Yusho patients. They were divided into two groups, namely group A, ten patients (3 males and 7 females) with the mean age of 67.7 years old and group B, eight patients (4 males and 4 females) with the mean age of 64.1 years old. Among the patients of group A, three patients were especially highly contaminated with PCDFs and we classified them into group A (High). Respective mean concentrations of PCDFs in the blood just before initiating this study were as follows; group A : 145 pg/g lipid, group A (High) : 371 pg/g lipid and group B : 52.1 pg/g lipid. Contamination levels of PCDFs, PCDDs and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in group A (High) were 1.7 to 2.6 times higher than those in group A and 2.4 to 7.1 times higher than those in group B. Accordingly, concentrations of dioxins (PCDFs + PCDDs + dioxin-like PCBs) in the blood of groups A, A (High) and B were, respectively, 194, 458 and 85 pg-TEQ/g lipid. Concentrations of PCBs were also the highest in group A (High) : 1399 ng/g lipid, in group A : 748 ng/g lipid and the lowest in group B : 456 ng/g lipid. Groups A and A (High) took around 7.0 g of spirulina HI * GENKI after each meal and three times a day for the first one year and for the second one year, they did not take spirulina HI * GENKI anymore. Group B took spirulina HI * GENKI with the same manner as the group A only for the second one year. The concentrations of PCDFs, PCDDs, dioxin-like PCBs and PCBs in the blood were also measured at the end of the first and second year, respectively. Assuming the body fat is also contaminated with these compounds at their concentrations on lipid weight basis in the blood and the content of body fat is 20% of 60 kg body weight, we computed the average amounts in their net excretion from the body of the patients due to spirulina HI * GENKI in the three groups. As a result, in group A (High), 341 ng-TEQ/patient of dioxins was excreted from the body, which was 3.4 times greater than that in group A and 12 times higher than that in group B. Therefore, promotive excretions of causative agents of Yusho were the most effective in group A (High) and we consider spirulina HI * GENKI is more effective from the therapeutic point of view in more highly contaminated Yusho patients.
21706894	In 1968, the contamination of cooking oil by heat-degraded polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) caused a case of mass poisoning, the so-called Yusho incident. The cause of Yusho disease is thought to be ingested toxic substances, including not only PCBs but polychlorinated dibenzofuran (PCDFs) in Kanemi rice oil. Extensive studies have been performed since 1995 by the Yusho study group involving follow-up surveys of human blood concentrations of the casual compounds in Yusho patients as well as clinical trials of the acceleration of the excretion of these compounds in Yusho patients. We have previously measured dioxin concentrations in the blood of 649 Yusho patients in annual medical examinations from 2001 to 2009. We determined that the concentrations of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF, and 3,3',4,4',5,5'-HxCB (#169) in the blood of Yusho patients were more than twice as high levels to as those of normal controls. In this study, we compared the concentrations of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF, 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF, and 3,3',4,4',5,5'-HxCB (#169) in the blood of male Yusho patients with those of female Yusho patients. As a result, it was found that the mean concentrations of 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF 1,2,3,4, 7,8-HxCDF 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF, and 3,3',4,4',5,5'-HxCB (#169) in female Yusho patients were 2.9, 3.7, 2.4, and 1.3 times higher, respectively, than those of male Yusho patients.
21707637	Cyclin proteins, associated to cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), play fundamental roles in cell cycle control as they constitute a very important driving force to allow cell cycle progression. D-type cyclins (CycDs) are important both for interpreting external mitogenic signals and in the control of the G1 phase. The maize (Zea mays) genome appears to contain at least 17 different CycD genes, and they fall into the subgroups previously described for other plants. Maize CycDs have been named according to identity percentages of the corresponding orthologs in rice and Arabidopsis. In silico analysis confirmed the presence of characteristic cyclin domains in each maize CycD gene and showed that their genomic organization is similar to their orthologs in rice and Arabidopsis. The expression of maize CycD genes was followed in seeds, during germination in the presence/absence of exogenously added hormones, and also in different plantlet tissues (mesocotyl, root tips and first leaf). Most cyclins were expressed in germinating seeds and at least in one of the plantlet tissues tested; almost all of the detected cyclins show an accumulating pattern of mRNA along germination (0-24 h) and higher levels in root tissue. Interestingly, some cyclins show high levels in non-proliferating tissues as leaf. Addition of auxins or cytokinins does not seem to importantly modify transcript levels; on the other hand, addition of abscisic acid repressed the expression of several cyclins. The role of each CycD during germination and plant growth and its interaction with other cell cycle proteins becomes a topic of the highest interest.
21707638	The micronutrient content of most cereal grains is low and responsible for malnutrition deficiencies in millions of people who rely on grains as their primary food source. Any strategy that can increase the micronutrient content of grain will have significant benefits to world health. We identified a gene from barley encoding a cell wall protein with multiple histidine (His)-rich motifs interspersed with short arabinogalactan-protein (AGP) domains and have called it Hordeum vulgare His-rich AGP (HvHRA1). Sequence analysis shows that His-rich AGPs are rare in plants and that the number of His-rich and AGP domains differ between cereals and dicots. The barley and wheat encoded proteins have more than 13 His-rich domains, whereas the putative rice orthologue has only 5 His-rich regions. His-rich motifs are well-established metal-binding motifs; therefore, we developed transgenic (Tx) rice plants that constitutively overexpress barley HvHRA1. There was no significant effect on plant growth or grain yield in Tx plants. Purification of AGPs from wild-type and Tx plants showed that only Tx plants contained detectable levels of a His-rich AGP. Calcein assay shows that the AGP fraction from Tx plants had increased binding affinity for Cu(2+) . Micronutrient analysis of brown and white rice showed that the grain nutrient yield for Fe, Zn and Cu was higher in two Tx lines compared to their respective nulls, although the differences were not statistically significant. This approach highlights the potential of the plant apoplast (cell wall) for storage of key nutrients through overexpression of genes for metal-binding proteins.
21708440	When chemical shift selective (CHESS) imaging is used with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for simultaneous imaging of both hands for the evaluation of rheumatoid arthritis, the fat suppression effect is poor. We investigated whether these fat-suppressed images using CHESS could be improved with the use of rice pads. T1-weighted images were obtained with CHESS and the same imaging parameters were used with and without rice pads on the coronal plane of both hands in 10 healthy volunteers. Patients were placed in a prone position with both hands extended overhead. The fat-suppression effect was classified into four categories and scored for both sets of images, and visual assessments were made by one radiologist and one radiologic technologist. The evaluation score was 1.1 for the images made without rice pads, and 3.2 for the images made with rice pads. The fat suppression effect was thus significantly better in the images made using rice pads (P<0.0001). Lingering fat signals disappeared almost completely in images of both hands using CHESS with rice pads, and it was confirmed that the images were improved and had good fat suppression. More accurate evaluation of inflammatory sites that occur in rheumatoid arthritis may thus be possible, promising better diagnostic accuracy.
21708892	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of rice vinegar administered via nasogastric feeding tube on catheter-associated bacteriuria in patients with long-term urinary catheterization. The authors conducted a randomized controlled trial (n = 60) to compare treatment with dilute vinegar and usual care. The authors recruited patients with chronic catheters from a long-term care facility in northern Taiwan. The experimental group received 100 ml of diluted rice vinegar each day for 4 weeks, whereas the control group received 100 ml of water. The authors analyzed urine weekly and cultured it on Day 28. The generalized estimating equation results showed significant between-group differences in urinary pH, bacterial titer, and turbidity. No patient in the experimental group, but three in the control group, exhibited symptomatic urinary tract infection (UTI). Rice vinegar may decrease bacteriuria. Medicinal use of vinegar may decrease the risk of symptomatic UTI, but further study is needed to determine the effects of ingesting vinegar for a longer period and with a larger sample size.
2170986	The maize transposon Activator (Ac) and in vitro-generated nonautonomous derivatives thereof [Ac delta or Dissociation (Ds) elements] were inserted into the genome of a geminivirus of graminaceous plants, wheat dwarf virus, at a site that does not interfere with viral replication. These recombinant viral genomes were introduced into wheat, maize, and rice protoplasts, where rapid and efficient excision of Ac was observed. Excision was detected only in vectors in which, after transfection, the virus could replicate. This result is not restricted to the autonomous Ac; excision of Ds elements was also induced by transposase activity provided in trans by plasmids expressing the cDNA of Ac. The potential of this combination of a transposon with a viral replicon for plant molecular genetic engineering is discussed.
21709995	This article presents conclusions of research conducted at Ensp/Fiocruz, as part of a master's degree course. One of the objectives of the research to investigate the eating habits of women living in the Rocinha Shantytown (Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil) from a socio-anthropological perspective. The results revealed that the eating habits of the group were repetitive, with few variations in the menu consisting basically of rice, bean, sugars and fats. We further observed the rejection of industrialized and canned products. This food consumption pattern seems to conform to Brazilian food culture revealing the preservation of the national identity based on feeding habits. Consequently, it is necessary to set aside presuppositions regarding the relationship between food consumption and obesity, especially with respect to the predominant idea of changes in diet with the incorporation of a "modern" or "western" diet that prevail in studies in the field of nutrition in Brazil. In this sense, we signaled the need to reassert a multidimensional approach for studies about food and nutrition in the country. This proposal involves overcoming restricted conceptual outlooks and the creation of new avenues of investigation.
21710178	Transposable elements (TEs) have a significant impact on the evolution of gene function and genome structures. An endogenous nonautonomous transposable element nDart was discovered in an albino mutant that had an insertion in the Mg-protoporphyrin IX methyltransferase gene in rice. In this study, we elucidated the transposition behavior of nDart, the frequency of nDart transposition and characterized the footprint of nDart. Novel independent nDart insertions in backcrossed progenies were detected by DNA blotting analysis. In addition, germinal excision of nDart occurred at very low frequency compared with that of somatic excision, 0-13.3%, in the nDart1-4(3-2) and nDart1-A loci by a locus-specific PCR strategy. A total of 253 clones from somatic excision at five nDart loci in 10 varieties were determined. nDart rarely caused deletions beyond target site duplication (TSD). The footprint of nDart contained few transversions of nucleotides flanking to both sides of the TSD. The predominant footprint of nDart was an 8-bp addition. Precise excision of nDart was detected at a rate of only 2.2%, which occurred at two loci among the five loci examined. Furthermore, the results in this study revealed that a highly conserved mechanism of transposition is involved between maize Ac/Ds and rice Dart/nDart, which are two-component transposon systems of the hAT superfamily transposons in plant species.
21711449	Gelatinization temperature (GT) is an important parameter in evaluating the cooking and eating quality of rice. Indeed, the phenotype, biochemistry and inheritance of GT have been widely studied in recent times. Previous map-based cloning revealed that GT was controlled by ALK gene, which encodes a putative soluble starch synthase II-3. Complementation vector and RNAi vector were constructed and transformed into Nipponbare mediated by Agrobacterium. Phenotypic and molecular analyses of transgenic lines provided direct evidence for ALK as a key gene for GT. Meanwhile, amylose content, gel consistency and pasting properties were also affected in transgenic lines. Two of four nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms in coding sequence of ALK were identified as essential for GT. Based on the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), two new sets of SNP markers combined with one cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence marker were developed for application in rice quality breeding.
21712068	Arabidopsis thaliana At-4/1 is the protein of unknown function capable of polar localization in plant cells and intercellular trafficking. In this work, we cloned cDNAs and chromosomal genes of At-4/1 orthologues from several Nicotiana species. Similarly to the 4/1 genes of A. thaliana and Oryza sativa, Nicotiana 4/1 genes have eight exons and seven introns but are considerably longer due to their larger introns. The allotetraploid genome of Nicotiana tabacum, which is known to consist of the 'S genome' originated from Nicotiana sylvestris and the 'T genome' derived from Nicotiana tomentosiformis, encodes two 4/1 genes. The T genome-encoded 4/1 gene, but not that of the S genome, contains a SINE-like transposable element in its intron 2. The 4/1 genes of Nicotiana hesperis and Nicotiana benthamiana lack such an element in the intron 2, but possess a related SINE-like sequence in their intron 4. Collectively, the sequence analysis data provide an insight into the organization of 4/1 genes in flowering plants and the patterns of evolution in the genus Nicotiana. The Nicotiana 4/1 proteins and those of other flowering plants show a significant level of sequence similarity. Computer-assisted analysis was further used to compare their predicted secondary structures. Several algorithms confidently predicted the presence of several coiled-coil domains occupying similar positions in different 4/1 proteins. Analysis of circular dichroism spectra carried out for bacterially expressed N. tabacum 4/1 protein (Nt-4/1) and its N- and C-terminally truncated mutants confirmed that the secondary structure of Nt-4/1 is generally alpha-helical. The C-terminal region of Nt-4/1 was found to undergo a partial proteolysis in Escherichia coli cells. Differential scanning calorimetry of Nt-4/1 protein and its mutants revealed three calorimetric domains most probably corresponding to the N-terminal, central, and C-terminal structural domains of the protein.
21712097	Opisthorchis viverrini is one of the most common and medically important food-borne parasites in the Lower Mekong area of Southeast Asia. As we learn more about its ecology, pathology and epidemiology we see the need to consider more deeply the socio-cultural dynamics with which food-borne species complexes are associated. This paper argues that the Mekong region is characterized by strong livelihoods and life-style associations within wetland ecosystems, which are inseparable from human eating habits ("raw attitudes"). Within the fish-rice economies of the region there are many long-cherished food cultures based on eating raw, semi-cooked and fermented fish dishes, which are known to lead to opisthorchiasis, and potentially cholangiocarcinoma. This paper examines evidence from northeast Thailand showing that dedicated health outreach campaigns do help to reduce prevalence of opisthorchiasis over time. For disease prevention and health education approaches to be most effective, they must be sensitive to culture, livelihood economics, gender, and age. Further integrative, inter-disciplinary and international research must incorporate the complex dynamics of parasite ecology, human behavior, socio-economics, and public health awareness.
21712596	This study investigated seasonal and geographical variation in the fluorescence properties of dissolved organic matter (DOM) in a river system that includes rice paddy fields in its watershed. The river system covers a northern area of the main island of Japan, and between 6 and 45% the watershed area of the tributaries is paddy fields. Water samples were collected monthly from eight tributaries for 1 yr, and the fluorescence properties of DOM were monitored by combined excitation-emission matrix (EEM) and parallel factor analysis. The EEM was statistically decomposed into six fluorescence components with different environmental dynamics. The relative proportion of these components varied with season and geographic location, the former having a greater effect than the latter. Seasonal variation is largely attributed to changes in the source of DOM associated with irrigated rice cultivation practice. The fluorescence component composition showed a stronger autochthonous signature, which varied over a wider range during off-cropping period (October-April) than cropping period (May-September). During the cropping period, a large amount of allochthonous DOM with relatively similar quality was transported into river water from flooded paddy fields and masked the variability in the quality of DOM among tributaries. Therefore, irrigated rice cropping practices are considered to be one of major factors that influence seasonal and geographical variation of fluvial DOM composition.
21713003	Plant genomes are complex and contain large amounts of repetitive DNA including microsatellites that are distributed across entire genomes. Whole genome sequences of several monocot and dicot plants that are available in the public domain provide an opportunity to study the origin, distribution and evolution of microsatellites, and also facilitate the development of new molecular markers. In the present investigation, a genome-wide analysis of microsatellite distribution in monocots (Brachypodium, sorghum and rice) and dicots (Arabidopsis, Medicago and Populus) was performed. A total of 797,863 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were identified in the whole genome sequences of six plant species. Characterization of these SSRs revealed that mono-nucleotide repeats were the most abundant repeats, and that the frequency of repeats decreased with increase in motif length both in monocots and dicots. However, the frequency of SSRs was higher in dicots than in monocots both for nuclear and chloroplast genomes. Interestingly, GC-rich repeats were the dominant repeats only in monocots, with the majority of them being present in the coding region. These coding GC-rich repeats were found to be involved in different biological processes, predominantly binding activities. In addition, a set of 22,879 SSR markers that were validated by e-PCR were developed and mapped on different chromosomes in Brachypodium for the first time, with a frequency of 101 SSR markers per Mb. Experimental validation of 55 markers showed successful amplification of 80% SSR markers in 16 Brachypodium accessions. An online database 'BraMi' (Brachypodium microsatellite markers) of these genome-wide SSR markers was developed and made available in the public domain. The observed differential patterns of SSR marker distribution would be useful for studying microsatellite evolution in a monocot-dicot system. SSR markers developed in this study would be helpful for genomic studies in Brachypodium and related grass species, especially for the map based cloning of the candidate gene(s).
21713282	Rice is an important crop throughout the world and is the staple food for about half the world's population. For better breeding and improved production, we need to know the function of rice molecules which facilitate their function through interactions with each other. The database of interacting proteins in Oryza sativa (DIPOS) provides comprehensive information of interacting proteins in rice, where the interactions are predicted using two computational methods, i.e., interologs and domain based methods. DIPOS contains 14 614 067 pairwise interactions among 27 746 proteins, covering about 41% of the whole Oryaza sativa proteome. Furthermore, each interaction is assigned a confidence score which further enables biologists to sort out the important proteins. Biological explanations of pathways and interactions are also provided based on the database. Public access to the DIPOS is available at and .
21713481	Conventional blanket application of nitrogen (N) fertilizer results in more loss of N from soil system and emission of nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas (GHG). The leaf color chart (LCC) can be used for real-time N management and synchronizing N application with crop demand to reduce GHG emission. A 1-year study was carried out to evaluate the impact of conventional and LCC-based urea application on emission of nitrous oxide, methane, and carbon dioxide in a rice-wheat system of the Indo-Gangetic Plains of India. Treatments consisted of LCC scores of ≤4 and 5 for rice and wheat and were compared with conventional fixed-time N splitting schedule. The LCC-based urea application reduced nitrous oxide emission in rice and wheat. Application of 120 kg N per hectare at LCC ≤ 4 decreased nitrous oxide emission by 16% and methane by 11% over the conventional split application of urea in rice. However, application of N at LCC ≤ 5 increased nitrous oxide emission by 11% over the LCC ≤ 4 treatment in rice. Wheat reduction of nitrous oxide at LCC ≤ 4 was 18% as compared to the conventional method. Application of LCC-based N did not affect carbon dioxide emission from soil in rice and wheat. The global warming potential (GWP) were 12,395 and 13,692 kg CO(2) ha(-1) in LCC ≤ 4 and conventional urea application, respectively. Total carbon fixed in conventional urea application in rice-wheat system was 4.89 Mg C ha(-1) and it increased to 5.54 Mg C ha(-1) in LCC-based urea application (LCC ≤ 4). The study showed that LCC-based urea application can reduce GWP of a rice-wheat system by 10.5%.
21713535	Since apomixis was first mapped in Paspalum, the absence of recombination that characterizes the related locus appeared to be the most difficult bottleneck to overcome for the dissection of the genetic determinants that control this trait. An approach to break the block of recombination was developed in this genus through an among-species comparative mapping strategy. A new apomictic species, P. procurrens (Q4094) was crossed with a sexual plant of P. simplex and their progeny was classified for reproductive mode with the aid of morphological, embryological and genetic analyses. On this progeny, a set of heterologous rice RFLP markers strictly co-segregating in coupling phase with apomixis was identified. These markers were all located on the telomeric region of the long arm of the chromosome 12 of rice. In spite of the lack of recombination exhibited by the apomixis-linked markers in P. procurrens, a comparative mapping analysis among P. simplex, P. malacophyllum, P. notatum and P. procurrens, allowed us to identify a small group of markers co-segregating with apomixis in all these species. These markers bracketed a chromosome region that likely contains all the genetic determinants of apomictic reproduction in Paspalum. The implications of this new inter-specific approach for overcoming the block of recombination to isolate the genetic determinants of apomixis and gain a better comprehension of genome structure of apomictic chromosome region are discussed.
21713536	During the last decade, a large number of QTLs and candidate genes for rice tolerance to salinity have been reported. Using 124 SNP and 52 SSR markers, we targeted 14 QTLs and 65 candidate genes for association mapping within the European Rice Core collection (ERCC) comprising 180 japonica accessions. Significant differences in phenotypic response to salinity were observed. Nineteen distinct loci significantly associated with one or more phenotypic response traits were detected. Linkage disequilibrium between these loci was extremely low, indicating a random distribution of favourable alleles in the ERCC. Analysis of the function of these loci indicated that all major tolerance mechanisms were present in the ERCC although the useful level of expression of the different mechanisms was scattered among different accessions. Under moderate salinity stress some accessions achieved the same level of control of Na(+) concentration and Na(+)/K(+) equilibrium as the indica reference variety for salinity tolerance Nona Bokra, although without sharing the same alleles at several loci associated with Na(+) concentration. This suggests (a) differences between indica and japonica subspecies in the effect of QTLs and genes involved in salinity tolerance and (b) further potential for the improvement of tolerance to salinity above the tolerance level of Nona Bokra, provided the underlying mechanisms are complementary at the whole plant level. No accession carried all favourable alleles, or showed the best phenotypic responses for all traits measured. At least nine accessions were needed to assemble the favourable alleles and all the best phenotypic responses. An effective strategy for the accumulation of the favourable alleles would be marker-assisted population improvement.
21715160	Transesterification of vegetable oils (from soybeans and rice bran) into methyl and ethyl esters using a batch microwave system was investigated in this study. A critical comparison between the two alcohols was performed in terms of yields, quality, and reaction kinetics. Parameters tested were temperature (60, 70 and 80°C) and time (5, 10, 15 and 20 min). At all tested conditions, more than 96% conversion rates were obtained for both ethanol and methanol. Use of microwave technology to assist the transesterification process resulted in faster reaction times and reduced catalyst requirement (about ten-fold decrease). Methanol required lower alcohol:oil ratios than normally used in conventional heating, whereas ethanol required higher molar ratios. All esters produced using this method met ASTM biodiesel quality specifications. Methanol performed better in terms of performance and costs, while ethanol may have some environmental and safety benefits.
21715163	The aim of this study was to evaluate fermented rice bran phospholipids, lipids and fatty acid content in a fermentation solid system with Rhizopus oryzae fungus. For this, aliquots were withdrawn every 24h over 120 h. The content of phospholipids was determined by colorimetric method. Esterified fatty acids were separated by gas chromatography, then identified and quantified. The total lipids from fermented rice bran (FB) decreased from 20.4% to 11.2% in the range between 0 h and 120 h of fermentation while phospholipid contents were increased up to 2.4 mg P g(lipid)(-1). In fermented bran, oleic, palmitic and linoleic acids prevailed, with a decrease in saturated fatty acids (20%) and increase in the unsaturated ones (5%). This study showed that rice bran fermentation with R. oryzae can be applied to the production of phospholipids altering the saturated to unsaturated fatty acid ratio.
21715672	Complex defense signaling pathways, controlled by different hormones, are involved in the reaction of plants to a wide range of biotic and abiotic stress factors. We studied the ability of salicylic acid, jasmonate (JA), and ethylene (ET) to induce systemic defense in rice (Oryza sativa) against the root knot nematode Meloidogyne graminicola. Exogenous ET (ethephon) and JA (methyl jasmonate) supply on the shoots induced a strong systemic defense response in the roots, exemplified by a major up-regulation of pathogenesis-related genes OsPR1a and OsPR1b, while the salicylic acid analog BTH (benzo-1,2,3-thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester) was a less potent systemic defense inducer from shoot to root. Experiments with JA biosynthesis mutants and ET-insensitive transgenics showed that ET-induced defense requires an intact JA pathway, while JA-induced defense was still functional when ET signaling was impaired. Pharmacological inhibition of JA and ET biosynthesis confirmed that JA biosynthesis is needed for ET-induced systemic defense, and quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction data revealed that ET application onto the shoots strongly activates JA biosynthesis and signaling genes in the roots. All data provided in this study point to the JA pathway to play a pivotal role in rice defense against root knot nematodes. The expression of defense-related genes was monitored in root galls caused by M. graminicola. Different analyzed defense genes were attenuated in root galls caused by the nematode at early time points after infection. However, when the exogenous defense inducers ethephon and methyl jasmonate were supplied to the plant, the nematode was less effective in counteracting root defense pathways, hence making the plant more resistant to nematode infection.
21715673	Arsenic (As) accumulation in rice (Oryza sativa) may pose a significant health risk to consumers. Plants take up different As species using various pathways. Here, we investigated the contribution of the phosphate (Pi) transport pathway to As accumulation in rice grown hydroponically or under flooded soil conditions. In hydroponic experiments, a rice mutant defective in OsPHF1 (for phosphate transporter traffic facilitator1) lost much of the ability to take up Pi and arsenate and to transport them from roots to shoots, whereas transgenic rice overexpressing either the Pi transporter OsPht1;8 (OsPT8) or the transcription factor OsPHR2 (for phosphate starvation response2) had enhanced abilities of Pi and arsenate uptake and translocation. OsPT8 was found to have a high affinity for both Pi and arsenate, and its overexpression increased the maximum influx by 3- to 5-fold. In arsenate-treated plants, both arsenate and arsenite were detected in the xylem sap, with the proportion of the latter increasing with the exposure time. Under the flooded soil conditions, the phf1 mutant took up less Pi whereas the overexpression lines took up more Pi. But there were no similar effects on As accumulation and distribution. Rice grain contained predominantly dimethylarsinic acid and arsenite, with arsenate being a minor species. These results suggest that the Pi transport pathway contributed little to As uptake and transport to grain in rice plants grown in flooded soil. Transgenic approaches to enhance Pi acquisition from paddy soil through the overexpression of Pi transporters may not increase As accumulation in rice grain.
21716679	The rice fermented by Monascus, called red mold rice (RMR), and has a long tradition in East Asia as a dietary staple. Monascus-fermented dioscorea called red mold dioscorea (RMD) contains various metabolites to perform the ability of reducing oxidative stress and anti-inflammatory response. We used Wistar rats and induced diabetes by injecting streptozotocin (STZ, 65 mg/kg i.p.). RMD was administered daily starting six weeks after disease onset. Throughout the experimental period, significantly (P < .05) lowered plasma glucose, triglyceride, cholesterol, free fatty acid and low density lipoprotein levels were observed in the RMD-treated groups. The RMD-treated diabetic rats showed higher activities of glutathione disulfide reductase, glutathione reductase, catalase and superoxide dismutase (P < .05) in the pancreas compared with the diabetic control rats. RMD also inhibited diabetes-induced elevation in the levels of interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, interferon-γ and tumor necrosis factor-α. Pancreatic β-cells damaged by STZ in the RMD supplemented groups were ameliorated. The results of this study clearly demonstrated that RMD possesses several treatment-oriented properties, including the control of hyperglycemia, antioxidant effects, pancreatic β-cell protection and anti-inflammatory effects. Considering these observations, it appears that RMD may be a useful supplement to delay the development of diabetes and its complications.
21717056	Bacterial leaf streak of rice (BLS) caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc) is a widely-spread disease in the main rice-producing areas of the world. Investigating the genes that play roles in rice-Xoc interactions helps us to understand the defense signaling pathway in rice. Here we report a differentially expressed protein gene (DEPG1), which regulates susceptibility to BLS. DEPG1 is a nucleotide-binding site (NBS)-leucine rich repeat (LRR) gene, and the deduced protein sequence of DEPG1 has approximately 64% identity with that of the disease resistance gene Pi37. Phylogenetic analysis of DEPG1 and the 18 characterized NBS-LRR genes revealed that DEPG1 is more closely related to Pi37. DEPG1 protein is located to the cytoplasm, which was confirmed by transient expression of DEPG1-GFP (green fluorescent protein) fusion construct in onion epidermal cells. Semi-quantitative PCR assays showed that DEPG1 is widely expressed in rice, and is preferentially expressed in internodes, leaf blades, leaf sheaths and flag leaves. Observation of cross sections of leaves from the transgenic plants with a DEPG1-promoter::glucuronidase (GUS) fusion gene revealed that DEPG1 is also highly expressed in mesophyll tissues where Xoc mainly colonizes. Additionally, Xoc negatively regulates expression of DEPG1 at the early stage of the pathogen infection, and so do the three defense-signal compounds including salicylic acid (SA), methyl jasmonate (MeJA) and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic-acid (ACC). Transgenic rice plants overexpressing DEPG1 exhibit enhanced susceptibility to Xoc compared to the wild-type controls. Moreover, enhanced susceptibility to Xoc may be mediated by inhibition of the expression of some SA biosynthesis-related genes and pathogenesis-related genes that may contribute to the disease resistance. Taken together, DEPG1 plays roles in the interactions between rice and BLS pathogen Xoc.
21717189	One of the rare sugars, D-allose, which is the epimer of D-glucose at C3, has an inhibitory effect on rice growth, but the molecular mechanisms of the growth inhibition by D-allose were unknown. The growth inhibition caused by D-allose was prevented by treatment with hexokinase inhibitors, D-mannoheptulose and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine. Furthermore, the Arabidopsis glucose-insensitive2 (gin2) mutant, which is a loss-of-function mutant of the glucose sensor AtHXK1, showed a D-allose-insensitive phenotype. D-Allose strongly inhibited the gibberellin-dependent responses such as elongation of the second leaf sheath and induction of α-amylase in embryo-less half rice seeds. The growth of the slender rice1 (slr1) mutant, which exhibits a constitutive gibberellin-responsive phenotype, was also inhibited by D-allose, and the growth inhibition of the slr1 mutant by D-allose was also prevented by D-mannoheptulose treatment. The expressions of gibberellin-responsive genes were down-regulated by D-allose treatment, and the down-regulations of gibberellin-responsive genes were also prevented by D-mannoheptulose treatment. These findings reveal that D-allose inhibits the gibberellin-signaling through a hexokinase-dependent pathway.
21717205	Autochthonous strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae from traditional starters used for the production of rice-based ethnic fermented beverage in North East India were examined for their genetic polymorphism using mitochondrial DNA-RFLP and electrophoretic karyotyping. Mitochondrial DNA-RFLP analysis of S. cerevisiae strains with similar technological origins from hamei starter of Manipur and marcha starter of Sikkim revealed widely separated clusters based on their geographical origin. Electrophoretic karyotyping showed high polymorphism amongst the hamei strains within similar mitochondrial DNA-RFLP cluster and one unique karyotype of marcha strain was widely distributed in the Sikkim-Himalayan region. We conceptualized the possibility of separate domestication events for hamei strains in Manipur (located in the Indo-Burma biodiversity hotspot) and marcha strains in Sikkim (located in Himalayan biodiversity hotspot), as a consequence of less homogeneity in the genomic structure between these two groups, their clear separation being based on geographical origin, but not on technological origin and low strain level diversity within each group. The molecular markers developed based on HinfI-mtDNA-RFLP profile and the chromosomal doublets in chromosome VIII position of Sikkim-Himalayan strains could be effectively used as geographical markers for authenticating the above starter strains and differentiating them from other commercial strains.
21717464	Fermented rice flour (khao-khab, a non-glutinous rice) and related products are Thai traditional products. The types of acetic acid bacteria (AAB) microflora in khao-khab have not been reported. In this study, Acetobacter strains were isolated and identified based on the phenotypic and chemotaxonomic characteristics and molecular aspects. Twenty-five acetic acid bacteria isolated from fermented rice products and a starter for sweetened rice in Thailand by an enrichment culture approach, were assigned to the genus Acetobacter by phenotypic and chemotaxonomic characterisations. On the basis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence and 16S-23S rRNA gene ITS restriction analyses, 25 isolates were divided into six groups and identified at the specific level: (1) Group 1 included five isolates, which were identified as A. indonesiensis; (2) Group 2 included two isolates, which were identified as A. lovaniensis; (3) Group 3 included one isolate, which was identified as A. orientalis; (4) Group 4 included eleven isolates, which were identified as A. pasteurianus; (5) Group 5 included three isolates, which were identified as A. syzygii and (6) Group 6 included three isolates, which were unidentified and considered to constitute a new species. Results revealed that various Acetobacter species were distributed in Thai fermented rice flour and related products. A novel Acetobacter species was isolated from the product.
21717565	Quinclorac (3,7-dichloro-quinoline-carboxylic acid) is a selective herbicide widely used to control annual grasses and certain broadleaf weeds. Echinochloa phyllopogon (Stapf) Koss. is the most noxious grass weed in California rice fields and has evolved resistance to multiple herbicides with different modes of action. A quinclorac-resistant (R) E. phyllopogon biotype found in a Sacramento Valley rice field where quinclorac has never been applied was investigated. Resistant to susceptible (S) GR(50) (herbicide rate for 50% growth reduction) ratios ranged from 6 to 17. The cytochrome P450 inhibitor malathion (200 mg L(-1)) caused R plants to become as quinclorac susceptible as S plants. Quinclorac rapidly (6 HAT) stimulated ethylene formation in S plants, but only marginally in R plants. Malathion pretreatment did not reduce ethylene formation by quinclorac-treated S and R plants. Activity of β-cyanoalanine synthase (β-CAS) in tissue extracts was 2-3-fold greater in R than in S plants, and incubation of shoot extracts with 1 mM malathion reduced β-CAS activity by 40% in both biotypes. Resistance to quinclorac in R E. phyllopogon involved at least two mechanisms: (a) insensitivity along the response pathway whereby quinclorac induces ethylene production; (b) enhanced β-CAS activity, which should enable greater HCN detoxification following quinclorac stimulation of ethylene biosynthesis. This unveils new resistance mechanisms for this multiple-resistant biotype widely spread throughout California rice fields.
21717764	The effects of paper mill sludge, red mud and zinc fertilizer addition on remediation of acid cadmium contaminated paddy soil were studied in a pot experiment, and their beneficial effects were verified in a field experiment, by using lime as comparison. The pot experiment results showed that a single application (2 g x kg(-1)) of lime, paper mill sludge or red mud increased soil pH significantly. Compared with no applying alkaline substances, the soil exchangeable Ca content was increased by 33.1%-76.0% at 7 days after applying alkaline substances and 31.0%-78.3% at 30 days after rice transplanting, respectively. The soil available Cd content was significantly decreased by 38.4%-45.0% at 7 days after the three alkaline substances applications, and was decreased by 37.4%-52.9% and 33.2%-38.7% at 30 days and 60 days after rice transplanting, respectively. The Cd content in rice root and brown rice was decreased by 24.0%-48.5% and 26.3%-44.7%, respectively. With equal applications of lime, paper mill sludge and red mud, the effects on increase of soil pH and decrease in Cd accumulation by rice was lime > red mud > paper mill sludge. Compared with a single application (2 g x kg(-1)) of paper mill sludge or red mud, Cd accumulation decreased significantly following the application of zinc fertilizer (0.2 g x kg(-1)) field experimental results were similar to the pot experiment that Cd accumulation apparently declined in the first and second crops (late rice and autumn rape) following the application of paper mill sludge, red mud and addition of zinc fertilizer. The Cd content in brown rice and rape seeds was decreased by 27.1-65.1% and 16.4%-41.6%, respectively, compared with no alkaline substances application. The Cd content in brown rice reached the National Hygienic Standard for Grains (GB 2715-2005). Therefore, combined application of paper mill sludge or red mud with zinc fertilizer was a feasible method to remediate acid cadmium contaminated paddy soil. Rice quality was guaranteed by determination of rational amount of alkaline wastes and a proportion of zinc fertilizer which was in accord with soil Cd contamination level and chemical properties, etc.
21717823	An effective treatment for fibromyalgia (FM) has yet to become available. To assess the efficacy ofa lifestyle program consisting of a modified elimination diet and a supplemental medical food on clinical symptoms of FM assessed by the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ), FibroQuest Symptoms Survey (FibroQuest), Medical Symptoms Questionnaire (MSQ), metallothionein mRNA expression, and urinary toxic element excretion. Eight women (aged 48-74 years) were enrolled in an 8-week pilot trial employing a sequential design. During the initial 4-week Program A (control), participants consumed a modified US Department of Agriculture food pyramid diet and a rice protein powder supplement that provided basic macronutrient support. During the second 4-week Program B (intervention), participants consumed a modified elimination diet and a phytonutrient-rich medical food. Compared to baseline, both programs showed trends toward lower mean FIQ total score, MSQ total score, and FibroQuest total score, FIQ stiffness score, and FibroQuest headaches score. Compared to Program A, Program B resulted in a significant decrease (P< .05) in the FIQpain score and stiffness score. Participants also had better pain tolerance at five tender points during Program B than during Program A. Higher metallothionein mRNA expression was observed during Program B. An increase in creatinine-adjusted mercury excretion and suggestive increase in creatinine-adjusted arsenic excretion were noted when Program B was compared to baseline. Urinary mercury/arsenic concentrations were inversely associated with FIQand FibroQuest scores. Program B was shown to be a safe and efficacious botanically derived medical food treatment program for the amelioration of FM symptoms.
21717916	The density of minerals and vitamins in food staples eaten widely by the poor may be increased either through conventional plant breeding or through the use of transgenic techniques, a process known as biofortification. HarvestPlus seeks to develop and distribute varieties of food staples (rice, wheat, maize, cassava, pearl millet, beans, and sweet potato) that are high in iron, zinc, and provitamin A through an interdisciplinary, global alliance of scientific institutions and implementing agencies in developing and developed countries. In broad terms, three things must happen for biofortification to be successful. First, the breeding must be successful--high nutrient density must be combined with high yields and high profitability. Second, efficacy must be demonstrated--the micronutrient status of human subjects must be shown to improve when they are consuming the biofortified varieties as normally eaten. Thus, sufficient nutrients must be retained in processing and cooking and these nutrients must be sufficiently bioavailable. Third, the biofortified crops must be adopted by farmers and consumed by those suffering from micronutrient malnutrition in significant numbers. Biofortified crops offer a rural-based intervention that, by design, initially reaches these more remote populations, which comprise a majority of the undernourished in many countries, and then penetrates to urban populations as production surpluses are marketed. In this way, biofortification complements fortification and supplementation programs, which work best in centralized urban areas and then reach into rural areas with good infrastructure. Initial investments in agricultural research at a central location can generate high recurrent benefits at low cost as adapted, biofortified varieties become available in country after country across time at low recurrent costs.
21718517	High temperature is a critical abiotic stress that reduces crop yield and quality. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants remodel their proteomes in response to high temperature stress. Moreover, phosphorylation is the most common form of protein post-translational modification (PTM). However, the differential expression of phosphoproteins induced by heat in rice remains unexplored. Phosphoprotein in the leaves of rice under heat stress were displayed using two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) and Pro-Q Diamond dye. Differentially expressed phosphoproteins were identified by MALDI-TOF-TOF-MS/MS and confirmed by Western blotting. Ten heat-phosphoproteins were identified from twelve protein spots, including ribulose bisphos-phate carboxylase large chain, 2-Cys peroxiredoxin BAS1, putative mRNA binding protein, Os01g0791600 protein, OSJNBa0076N16.12 protein, putative H(+)-transporting ATP synthase, ATP synthase subunit beta and three putative uncharacterized proteins. The identification of ATP synthase subunit beta was further validated by Western-blotting. Four phosphorylation site predictors were also used to predict the phosphorylation sites and the specific kinases for these 10 phosphoproteins. Heat stress induced the dephosphorylation of RuBisCo and the phosphorylation of ATP-β, which decreased the activities of RuBisCo and ATP synthase. The observed dephosphorylation of the mRNA binding protein and 2-Cys peroxiredoxin may be involved in the transduction of heat-stress signaling, but the functional importance of other phosphoproteins, such as H+-ATPase, remains unknown.
21718555	An estimated 4.6 billion cases of diarrhoea occurred worldwide in 2004, resulting in 2.2 million deaths. We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the following clinical questions: What are the effects of treatments for acute diarrhoea in adults living in resource-rich countries? What are the effects of treatments for acute mild-to-moderate diarrhoea in adults from resource-rich countries travelling to resource-poor countries? What are the effects of treatments for acute mild-to-moderate diarrhoea in adults living in resource-poor countries? What are the effects of treatments for acute severe diarrhoea in adults living in resource-poor countries? We searched: Medline, Embase, The Cochrane Library, and other important databases up to January 2010 (Clinical Evidence reviews are updated periodically, please check our website for the most up-to-date version of this review). We included harms alerts from relevant organisations such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). We found 72 systematic reviews, RCTs, or observational studies that met our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of evidence for interventions. In this systematic review we present information relating to the effectiveness and safety of the following interventions: antibiotics, antimotility agents, antisecretory agents, bismuth subsalicylate, diet, intravenous rehydration, nasogastric tube rehydration, oral rehydration solutions (amino acid oral rehydration solution, bicarbonate oral rehydration solution, reduced osmolarity oral rehydration solution, rice-based oral rehydration solution, standard oral rehydration solution), vitamin A supplementation, and zinc supplementation.
21719259	Rice-like polymeric nanoparticles (NPs) composed of a new redox-responsive polymer, poly(ethylene glycol)-b-poly(lactic acid) (MPEG-SS-PLA), were prepared to carry paclitaxel (PTX) for glutathione (GSH)-regulated drug delivery. The PTX-loaded MPEG-SS-PLA NPs were fabricated using an optimized oil-in-water emulsion/solvent evaporation method. The size and morphology of the prepared NPs were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The SEM results demonstrate that the NPs were dispersed as individual particles and were rice-shaped. The PTX loading efficiency, in vitro release, and stability of the NPs were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The HPLC results revealed that the NPs released almost 90% PTX within 96 h when GSH presented at intracellular concentrations, whereas only a very small PTX amount was released at plasma GSH levels. The in vitro cytotoxicities of the NPs against A549, MCF-7, and HeLa carcinoma cells were assessed using a standard methyl thiazolyl tetrazoliun (MTT) assay. The MTT assay results show that the NPs caused concentration- and time-dependent changes in cell viability. To investigate the cellular uptake of the PTX-loaded NPs, visual endocytosis assay was performed using the fluorescent dye coumarin-6 as a model drug. The endocytosis assay results reveal rapid penetration and intracellular accumulation of coumarin-6-loaded NPs, as well as rapid coumarin-6 dispersion from the NPs. Overall, these findings establish that the NPs containing the synthesized redox-responsive polymer MPEG-SS-PLA can be used as potential carrier systems for antitumor drug delivery.
21719276	This study aimed to obtain natural cultures of anaerobic fungi and their indigenously associated methanogens from herbivores and investigate their ability to degrade lignocelluloses to methane. Eight natural cultures were obtained by Hungate roll tube technique. The fungi were identified as belonging to Piromyces, Anaeromyces and Neocallimastix respectively by microscopy, and the methanogens as Methanobrevibacter spp. by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. In vitro studies with rice straw showed that these cultures degraded 33.5-48.3% substrate and produced 0.33-0.84 mmol/(100ml culture) methane. Two cultures were further selected for their ability to degrade different lignocellulosic materials and could produce 0.38-1.27 mmol/(100ml culture) methane. When methanogens were inhibited, the lignocellulose-degrading ability of cultures significantly reduced. In conclusion, natural cultures of anaerobic fungi with indigenously associated methanogens with high fiber degradation ability were obtained, and these cultures may have the potential in industrial use in lignocelluloses degradation and methane production.
21719639	Ubiquitin-regulated protein degradation is a critical regulatory mechanism that controls a wide range of biological processes in plants. Here, we report that OsDIS1 (for Oryza sativa drought-induced SINA protein 1), a C3HC4 RING finger E3 ligase, is involved in drought-stress signal transduction in rice (O. sativa). The expression of OsDIS1 was up-regulated by drought treatment. In vitro ubiquitination assays showed that OsDIS1 possessed E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and that the conserved region of the RING finger was required for the activity. Transient expression assays in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves and rice protoplasts indicated that OsDIS1 was localized predominantly in the nucleus. Overexpression of OsDIS1 reduced drought tolerance in transgenic rice plants, while RNA interference silencing of OsDIS1 enhanced drought tolerance. Microarray analysis revealed that a large number of drought-responsive genes were induced or suppressed in the OsDIS1 overexpression plants under normal and drought conditions. Yeast two-hybrid screening showed that OsDIS1 interacted with OsNek6 (for O. sativa NIMA-related kinase 6), a tubulin complex-related serine/threonine protein kinase. Coexpression assays in N. benthamiana leaves indicated that OsNek6 was degraded by OsDIS1 via the 26S proteasome-dependent pathway and that this degradation was abolished by the OsDIS1(H71Y) mutation, which is essential for its E3 ligase activity. Together, these results demonstrate that OsDIS1 plays a negative role in drought stress tolerance through transcriptional regulation of diverse stress-related genes and possibly through posttranslational regulation of OsNek6 in rice.
21719994	The decontamination effect of milling by a jet mill was investigated by counting the number of bacteria in brown and white rice flour with mean particle diameters of 3, 20, and 40µm prepared by the jet mill. In the jet mill, the particles are crushed and reduced in size by the mechanical impact caused by their collision. Although the brown and white rice grains were contaminated with approximately 10(6) and 10(5) CFU/g bacteria, the microbial load of the rice flour decreased as the mean particle diameter decreased, ultimately decreasing to approximately 104 and 103 CFU/g in the brown and white rice flour. The temperature and pressure changes of the sample were not considered to have an effect on reducing the bacterial count during the milling. Hence, it was thought that the rice flour was decontaminated by other effects.
21722940	Although organoarsenical pesticides are being phased out, sites with high concentrations of organic arsenical residues still exist due to the long-term application of these pesticides. The biotic and abiotic speciation of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) can result in the formation of inorganic arsenic (As) species. Oxidation state, retention, and thereby persistence, varies according to temporal changes, influencing the availability and toxicity of contaminants. The current greenhouse study aimed at evaluating temporal changes in the oxidation state of As, geochemical partitioning, and bioaccessibility. Four soils with varying physiochemical properties were contaminated with DMA at two concentrations (675 and 1,500 mg kg(-1) of As). Rice plants were grown for a 6 months period, following which, the soils were allowed to age. The operationally defined forms of As and its bioaccessibility was analyzed at 0, 6 months, 1 year, and 3 years. Changes in oxidation state of As were evaluated immediately after spiking and after 3 years of soil-pesticide equilibration. Results show that geochemical partitioning of As was affected significantly (P<0.05) by soil type, loading rates, and equilibration time. Arsenic was bound mainly to the poorly-crystalline Fe/Al-oxyhydroxides in the soil. However, these interactions did not affect As bioaccessibility, presumably due to the dissolution of the bound fractions of As in the acidic stomach. While 74-94% of the total bioaccessible As was transformed to As(V), 4-19% was transformed to the more toxic As(III). This study indicates that although aging affected the geochemical partitioning of As in the soil, bioaccesibility was controlled by the gastric pH.
21723585	Accumulated maternal dioxins are passed onto the fetus and neonate via the placenta and maternal milk. In Japan in 1968, an accidental human exposure to rice oil contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and other dioxin-related compounds, such as polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), led to development of Yusho oil disease. We investigated differences in blood dioxin concentrations in mother-children pairs affected by the Yusho incident. From 2002 to 2008, blood samples were collected from 26 pairs of Yusho mothers and their children (19 mothers, 26 children). Specific congeners of seven polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), ten PCDFs, and four non-ortho PCBs were analyzed. The children had significantly lower TEQ concentrations of PCDDs, PCDFs, and coplanar PCBs compared to their mothers. The mother-child difference in blood concentrations varied with the congeners; the largest for 2,3,4,7,8-pentaCDF and the smallest for 1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptaCDD. The level for 2,3,4,7,8-pentaCDF, which characterizes Yusho oil disease, was approximately 17-30 times higher in the mothers than in the general population, whereas there were no significant differences between children in the formula-fed group and the general population. In contrast, the mean level for 2,3,4,7,8-pentaCDF in the breast-fed group was approximately 1.5 times, (range 0.5-6.5 times) higher than that in the general population. Over 30 years after the Yusho incident, the mean blood dioxin levels in the offspring were only a fraction of the levels in their mothers. This is more consistent with exposure via breast milk than via transplacental transfer in the Yusho incident.
21723604	Toxic cyanobacteria are considered emerging world threats, being responsible for the degradation of the aquatic ecosystems. Aphanizomenon ovalisporum produces the toxin Cylindrospermopsin (CYN) being a concern in fresh water habitats. This work aims to increase our knowledge on the effects of this toxic cyanobacterium in plants by studying the alterations in growth parameters and oxidative stress status of rice (Oriza sativa) exposed to the cyanobacteria cell extracts containing CYN. Significant increases in glutathione S-transferase (GST) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activities were detected in the different experiments performed. The roots showed to be more sensitive than leaves regarding the enzyme activities. A reduction in the leaf tissue fresh weight was observed after 9 days of plant treatment suggesting a major physiological stress. The exposure of rice plants to a mixture of A. ovalisporum and Microcystis aeruginosa cell extracts containing CYN and microcystins including microcystin-LR, resulted in a significant increase in the GST and GPx activities, suggesting a synergistic effect of both extracts. Together these results point out the negative effects of cyanotoxins on plant growth and oxidative status, induced by A. ovalisporum cell extracts, raising also concerns in the accumulation of CYN.
21724386	Bio-chars with high adsorption capacity derived from rice-husks and corncobs were prepared at different retention times (RTs) in a pyrolysis reactor. At a fixed pyrolysis temperature, the pyrolysis RT is a key factor influencing the surface areas and functional group contents of the bio-chars, and further influencing their adsorption capacities. The results indicate that the bio-char prepared at RT of 1.6s exhibits a higher phenol adsorption capacity (589 mg g(-1)) than other bio-chars and many activated carbons reported in the literature. An adsorption mechanism based on acid-base interaction and hydrogen binding between phenol and the functional groups was proposed to elucidate the adsorption process. An economic evaluation of the use of bio-chars as adsorbents was made.
21725029	Although allelic diversity of genes has been shown to contribute to many phenotypic variations associated with different physiological processes in plants, information on allelic diversity of abiotic stress-responsive genes is limited. Here it is shown that the alleles OsWRKY45-1 and OsWRKY45-2 play different roles in abscisic acid (ABA) signalling and salt stress adaptation in rice. The two alleles had different transcriptional responses to ABA and salt stresses. OsWRKY45-1-overexpressing lines showed reduced ABA sensitivity, whereas OsWRKY45-1-knockout lines showed increased ABA sensitivity. OsWRKY45-1 transgenic plants showed no obvious difference from negative controls in response to salt stress. In contrast, OsWRKY45-2-overexpressing lines showed increased ABA sensitivity and reduced salt stress tolerance, and OsWRKY45-2-suppressing lines showed reduced ABA sensitivity and increased salt stress tolerance. OsWRKY45-1 and OsWRKY45-2 transgenic plants showed differential expression of a set of ABA- and abiotic stress-responsive genes, but they showed similar responses to cold and drought stresses. These results suggest that OsWRKY45-1 negatively and OsWRKY45-2 positively regulates ABA signalling and, in addition, OsWRKY45-2 but not OsWRKY45-1 negatively regulates rice response to salt stress. The different roles of the two alleles in ABA signalling and salt stress may be due to their transcriptional mediation of different signalling pathways.
21725032	To identify genes involved in the response to the fire blight pathogen Erwinia amylovora in apple (Malus×domestica), expression profiles were investigated using an apple oligo (70-mer) array representing 40, 000 genes. Blossoms of a fire blight-susceptible apple cultivar Gala were collected from trees growing in the orchard, placed on a tray in the laboratory, and spray-inoculated with a suspension of E. amylovora at a concentration of 10(8) cfu ml(-1). Uninoculated detached flowers served as controls at each time point. Expression profiles were captured at three different time points post-inoculation at 2, 8, and 24 h, together with those at 0 h (uninoculated). A total of about 3500 genes were found to be significantly modulated in response to at least one of the three time points. Among those, a total of 770, 855, and 1002 genes were up-regulated, by 2-fold, at 2, 8, and 24 h following inoculation, respectively; while, 748, 1024, and 1455 genes were down-regulated, by 2-fold, at 2, 8, and 24 h following inoculation, respectively. Over the three time points post-inoculation, 365 genes were commonly up-regulated and 374 genes were commonly down-regulated. Both sets of genes were classified based on their functional categories. The majority of up-regulated genes were involved in metabolism, signal transduction, signalling, transport, and stress response. A number of transcripts encoding proteins/enzymes known to be up-regulated under particular biotic and abiotic stress were also up-regulated following E. amylovora treatment. Those up- or down-regulated genes encode transcription factors, signaling components, defense-related, transporter, and metabolism, all of which have been associated with disease responses in Arabidopsis and rice, suggesting similar response pathways are involved in apple blossoms.
21725757	Cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is an important cause of mortality and disability in newborns. It is a result of insufficient oxygen and glucose circulation to the brain, initiating long-term cerebral damage and cell death. Emerging evidence suggests that endothelin receptor-A (ETA) activation can play an important role in mediating brain damage. In this study, we investigated the role of ETA receptor inhibition using ABT-627 in neonatal HI injured rats. Postnatal day 10 Sprague-Dawley rat pups (n=91) were assigned to the following groups: sham (n=28), HI (vehicle, n=32), and HI with ABT-627 at 3 mg/kg (n=31). The Rice-Vannucci model was used to induce ischemia by ligating the right common carotid artery, followed by a 2 h hypoxic episode using 8% oxygen in a 37°C chamber. Postoperative assessment was conducted at 48 h after injury and again at 4 weeks. At the acute time point, investigative markers included cerebral edema, infarction volume, and body weight change. Neurobehavioral testing was measured at 4 weeks post-injury. Our findings indicated that ABT-627 had no effect on the measured parameters. This study suggests that ETA receptor blockade using ABT-627 post-treatment fails to improve neurological outcomes in neonatal HI injured rats.
21725760	Capsaicin, a transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) agonist, has recently been shown to provide neuroprotection against brain injury in experimental adult models of cerebral ischemia. Accordingly, in this study, we investigated the way in which capsaicin-mediated TRPV1 modulation could attenuate damage in an experimental hypoxic-ischemic (HI) neonatal brain injury model. The Rice-Vannucci method was used in 10-day-old rat pups by performing unilateral carotid artery ligation followed by 2 h of hypoxia (8% O2 at 37°C). Capsaicin was administered intraperitoneally (0.2 mg/kg or 2.0 mg/kg) at 3 h pre-HI or 1 h post-HI. Post assessment included measurement of infarction volume at 24 and 72 h in addition to an assessment of the vascular dynamics of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) at 6 h post-HI. The results indicated that pre-treatment with capsaicin reduced infarction volume significantly with either low-dose or high-dose treatment. Pre-treatment also improved myogenic tone and decreased apoptotic changes in the distal MCA. We concluded that capsaicin pre-treatment may provide neurovascular protection against neonatal HI.
21725856	Two abiotic stress-inducible upstream regulatory sequences (URSs) from rice have been identified and functionally characterized in rice. NBS-Str1 and BLEC-Str8 genes have been identified, by analysing the transcriptome data of cold, salt and desiccation stress-treated 7-day-old rice (Oryza sativa L. var. IR64) seedling, to be preferentially responsive to desiccation and salt stress, respectively. NBS-Str1 and BLEC-Str8 genes code for putative NBS (nucleotide binding site)-LRR (leucine rich repeat) and β-lectin domain protein, respectively. NBS-Str1 URS is induced in root tissue, preferentially in vascular bundle, during 3 and 24 h of desiccation stress condition in transgenic 7-day-old rice seedling. In mature transgenic plants, this URS shows induction in root and shoot tissue under desiccation stress as well as under prolonged (1 and 2 day) salt stress. BLEC-Str8 URS shows basal activity under un-stressed condition, however, it is inducible under salt stress condition in both root and leaf tissues in young seedling and mature plants. Activity of BLEC-Str8 URS has been found to be vascular tissue preferential, however, under salt stress condition its activity is also found in the mesophyll tissue. NBS-Str1 and BLEC-Str8 URSs are inducible by heavy metal, copper and manganese. Interestingly, both the URSs have been found to be non responsive to ABA treatment, implying them to be part of ABA-independent abiotic stress response pathway. These URSs could prove useful for expressing a transgene in a stress responsive manner for development of stress tolerant transgenic systems.
21726058	Rice straw is always regarded as a by-product of rice production, but it could be a significant energy source for ruminant animals. Knowledge of the genetic variation and genetic architecture of cell wall traits will facilitate rice breeders by improving relevant traits through selective breeding and genetic engineering. The common wild rice, Oryza rufipogon Griff., which is considered to be the progenitor of Oryza sativa, has been widely utilized for the identification of genes of agronomic importance for rice genetic improvement. In the present study, the mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for acid detergent fiber (ADF), neutral detergent fiber (NDF), acid detergent lignin (ADL), and ADL/NDF ratio was carried out in two environments using a backcrossed inbred line (BIL) population derived from a cross between the recurrent parent Xieqingzao B (XB) and an accession of Dongxiang wild rice (DWR). The results indicated that all four traits tested were continuously distributed among the BILs, but many BILs showed transgressive segregation. A total of 16 QTLs were identified for the four traits, but no QTLs were in common in two environments, suggesting that environment has dramatic effects on fiber and lignin syntheses. Compared to the QTL positions for grain yield-related traits, there were no unfavorable correlations between grain yield components and cell wall traits in this population. The QTLs identified in this study are useful for the development of dual-purpose rice varieties that are high in grain yield and are also high in straw quality.
21726237	Approximately one third of the identified 34 rice major disease resistance (R) genes conferring race-specific resistance to different strains of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), which causes rice bacterial blight disease, are recessive genes. However, only two of the recessive resistance genes have been characterized thus far. Here we report the characterization of another recessive resistance gene, xa25, for Xoo resistance. The xa25, localized in the centromeric region of chromosome 12, mediates race-specific resistance to Xoo strain PXO339 at both seedling and adult stages by inhibiting Xoo growth. It encodes a protein of the MtN3/saliva family, which is prevalent in eukaryotes, including mammals. Transformation of the dominant Xa25 into a resistant rice line carrying the recessive xa25 abolished its resistance to PXO339. The encoding proteins of recessive xa25 and its dominant allele Xa25 have eight amino acid differences. The expression of dominant Xa25 but not recessive xa25 was rapidly induced by PXO339 but not other Xoo strain infections. The nature of xa25-encoding protein and its expression pattern in comparison with its susceptible allele in rice-Xoo interaction indicate that the mechanism of xa25-mediated resistance appears to be different from that conferred by most of the characterized R proteins.
21726383	A rice cDNA library was screened by a galactosidase 4 (Gal4)-based yeast two-hybrid system with Rice stripe virus (RSV) p2 as bait. The results revealed that RSV p2 interacted with a rice protein exhibiting a high degree of identity with Arabidopsis thaliana suppressor of gene silencing 3 (AtSGS3). The interaction was confirmed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay. SGS3 has been shown to be involved in sense transgene-induced RNA silencing and in the biogenesis of trans-acting small interfering RNAs (ta-siRNAs), possibly functioning as a cofactor of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 6 (RDR6). Given the intimate relationships between virus and RNA silencing, further experiments were conducted to show that p2 was a silencing suppressor. In addition, p2 enhanced the accumulation and pathogenicity of Potato virus X in Nicotiana benthamiana. Five genes that have been demonstrated to be targets of TAS3-derived ta-siRNAs were up-regulated in RSV-infected rice. The implications of these findings are discussed.
21726398	In Arabidopsis, gene expression studies and analysis of knock-out (KO) mutants have been instrumental in building an integrated view of disease resistance pathways. Such an integrated view is missing in rice where shared tools, including genes and mutants, must be assembled. This work provides a tool kit consisting of informative genes for the molecular characterization of the interaction of rice with the major fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae. It also provides for a set of eight KO mutants, all in the same genotypic background, in genes involved in key steps of the rice disease resistance pathway. This study demonstrates the involvement of three genes, OsWRKY28, rTGA2.1 and NH1, in the establishment of full basal resistance to rice blast. The transcription factor OsWRKY28 acts as a negative regulator of basal resistance, like the orthologous barley gene. Finally, the up-regulation of the negative regulator OsWRKY28 and the down-regulation of PR gene expression early during M. oryzae infection suggest that the fungus possesses infection mechanisms that enable it to block host defences.
21726399	Plant 'activators', such as benzothiadiazole (BTH), protect plants from various diseases by priming the plant salicylic acid (SA) signalling pathway. We have reported previously that a transcription factor identified in rice, WRKY45 (OsWRKY45), plays a pivotal role in BTH-induced disease resistance by mediating SA signalling. Here, we report further functional characterization of WRKY45. Different plant activators vary in their action points, either downstream (BTH and tiadinil) or upstream (probenazole) of SA. Rice resistance to Magnaporthe grisea, induced by both types of plant activator, was markedly reduced in WRKY45-knockdown (WRKY45-kd) rice, indicating a universal role for WRKY45 in chemical-induced resistance. Fungal invasion into rice cells was blocked at most attempted invasion sites (pre-invasive defence) in WRKY45-overexpressing (WRKY45-ox) rice. Hydrogen peroxide accumulated within the cell wall underneath invading fungus appressoria or between the cell wall and the cytoplasm, implying a possible role for H(2)O(2) in pre-invasive defence. Moreover, a hypersensitive reaction-like reaction was observed in rice cells, in which fungal growth was inhibited after invasion (post-invasive defence). The two levels of defence mechanism appear to correspond to Type I and II nonhost resistances. The leaf blast resistance of WRKY45-ox rice plants was much higher than that of other known blast-resistant varieties. WRKY45-ox plants also showed strong panicle blast resistance. BTH-induced resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae was compromised in WRKY45-kd rice, whereas WRKY45-ox plants were highly resistant to this pathogen. However, WRKY45-ox plants were susceptible to Rhizoctonia solani. These results indicate the versatility and limitations of the application of this gene.
21726591	One of the main hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is senile plaques composed of amyloid β (Aβ). We developed a new edible vaccine: rice expressing GFP-Aβ42. In a previous report, we described the production of anti-Aβ antibodies in B6 mice fed Aβ rice mixed with cholera toxin B subunit (CTB). In this report, we investigated whether Aβ rice had therapeutic effects in the Tg2576 AD model mice. The anti-Aβ antibody titer was increased and levels of intracerebral Aβ (soluble and insoluble) and serum Aβ decreased. Because the value of IgG1/IgG2a in the Aβ feeding group was >1, immunization via Aβ rice may induce a non-inflammatory Th2 reaction. We also found that the Aβ vaccine improved memory, as assessed in a Y-maze test. The number of arm entries in the Y-maze test was lower in the Aβ feeding group than in the control group. These results suggest that the new edible vaccine Aβ rice may have therapeutic effects in AD.
21726754	The poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (PNIPA) gel is a widely studied thermo-responsive material that exhibits discontinuous change in volume when the external temperature is increased. In this paper, PNIPA gel was prepared and applied as a novel polymer coating for fiber-in-tube capillary microextraction of trace Co, Ni and Cd followed by on-line ICP-MS detection. The PNIPA coating was synthesized by using ethylene triethoxysilane (ETEOS) as the cross-linking agent under acidic conditions. This siloxane incorporated PNIPA gel achieves a dramatically rapid response rate when the external temperature is changed. The micro-structure of PNIPA coating was examined by scanning electron micrograph (SEM). Various experimental parameters including pH, temperature, sample flow rate and volume, elution solution and interfering ions affecting the extraction of the target analytes have been carefully investigated and optimized. Under the optimized conditions, the limits of detection were 0.45, 4.6 and 6.9 ng L(-1) for Co, Ni and Cd, respectively. With a sampling frequency of 13 h(-1), the relative standard deviations (RSDs) for Co, Ni and Cd were 4.8, 5.1 and 6.4% (C=1 μg L(-1), n=7), respectively. The proposed method had been successfully applied to the determination of Co, Ni and Cd in human urine. To validate the proposed method, certified reference materials of NIES No. 10-b rice flour and GBW07601 (GSH-1) human hair were analyzed and the determined values were in a good agreement with the certified values. The PNIPA coated fiber-in-tube capillary can be reused for more than 150 times without decreasing the extraction efficiency.
21728079	Rubisco frequently undergoes unproductive interactions with its sugar-phosphate substrate that stabilize active sites in an inactive conformation. Restoring catalytic competence to these sites requires the "molecular chiropractic" activity of Rubisco activase (activase). To make the study of activase more routine and physiologically relevant, an assay was devised for measuring activase activity in leaf extracts based on the ATP-dependent activation of inactive Rubisco. Control experiments with an Arabidopsis activase-deficient mutant confirmed that the rate of Rubisco activation was dependent on the concentration of activase in the extracts. Activase catalyzed Rubisco activation at rates equivalent to 9-14% catalytic sites per min in desalted extracts of Arabidopsis, camelina, tobacco, cotton, and wheat. Faster rates were observed in a transgenic line of Arabidopsis that expresses only the β-isoform of activase, whereas no activity was detected in a line that expresses only the α-isoform. Activase activity was also low or undetectable in rice, maize, and Chlamydomonas, revealing differences in the stability of the enzyme in different species. These differences are discussed in terms of the ability of activase subunits to remain associated or to reassociate into active oligomers when the stromal milieu is diluted by extraction. Finally, the temperature response of activase activity in leaf extracts differed for Arabidopsis, camelina, tobacco, and cotton, corresponding to the respective temperature responses of photosynthesis for each species. These results confirmed the exceptional thermal lability of activase at physiological ratios of activase to Rubisco.
21729215	The present experiment investigated durability during the repetitive use of washed rice straw, as bedding material, and washing water as a model study. Residual nitrogen levels, elasticity, and water suction rates for washed rice straw-adhered urea were measured. In addition, outflow levels of nitrogen and mineral ions (Na(+), NO(2)(-) + NO(3)(-), SO(4)(2-), PO(4)(3-), Cl(-)) for washing water were measured to determine durability. Nitrogen levels of rice straw significantly (P<0.05) decreased after two washings. There was no significant change in elasticity of repetitively used rice straw. Suction rates of rice straw after the second and third washings increased significantly (P<0.05) compared to the first time. With regard to the number of washings, the mineral ion outflow level in the washing water for nitrogen, Na(+), NO(2)(-) + NO(3)(-) and PO(4)(3-) after each washing was not significant. However, nitrogen outflow level tended to decrease after the third washing. SO(4)(-) and Cl(-) did significantly decrease (P<0.05) with the number of washings. In this study, it was considered that rice straw and washing water could be used repetitively three times. Furthermore, in order to maintain effluent standards, washing water from the first washing needs to be processed in a septic tank.
21729241	Binding of heat shock factors (Hsfs) to heat shock elements (HSEs) leads to transcriptional regulation of heat shock genes. Genome-wide, 953 rice genes contain perfect-type, 695 genes gap-type and 1584 genes step-type HSE sequences in their 1-kb promoter region. The rice genome contains 13 class A, eight class B and four class C Hsfs (OsHsfs) and has OsHsf26 (which is of variant type) genes. Chemical cross-linking analysis of in vitro synthesized OsHsf polypeptides showed formation of homotrimers of OsHsfA2c, OsHsfA9 and OsHsfB4b proteins. Binding analysis of polypeptides with oligonucleotide probes containing perfect-, gap-, and step-type HSE sequences showed that OsHsfA2c, OsHsfA9 and OsHsfB4b differentially recognize various model HSEs as a function of varying reaction temperatures. The homomeric form of OsHsfA2c and OsHsfB4b proteins was further noted by the bimolecular fluorescence complementation approach in onion epidermal cells. In yeast two-hybrid assays, OsHsfB4b showed homomeric interaction as well as distinct heteromeric interactions with OsHsfA2a, OsHsfA7, OsHsfB4c and OsHsf26. Transactivation activity was noted in OsHsfA2c, OsHsfA2d, OsHsfA9, OsHsfC1a and OsHsfC1b in yeast cells. These differential patterns pertaining to binding with HSEs and protein-protein interactions may have a bearing on the cellular functioning of OsHsfs under a range of different physiological and environmental conditions.
21729461	To determine the dietary patterns of a national sample of 2-8-year-old Australian children and to establish whether breast-feeding is associated with dietary patterns in this age group. Cross-sectional study using 24 h recall data from the 2007 Australian National Children's Nutrition and Physical Activity Survey. Australia. A total of 2287 children aged 2-8 years. Principal component factor analysis identified three distinct patterns. The 'Non-core food groups' pattern included food groups such as whole-fat dairy products, cheese, medium-high sugar-sweetened breakfast cereals and sweet biscuits, no fruit, reduced/low-fat dairy products and wholegrain bread/rolls. The 'Healthy, meat and vegetable' pattern included vegetables, red meat, fruit and wholegrain bread/rolls and was inversely associated with take-away foods and carbonated sugar-sweetened beverages. The 'Combination' pattern contained many food groups including candy (not chocolate based), pasta/rice products, nuts/seeds, cakes and chocolate, but no fruit or vegetables. Of the 2287 children, 2064 (89·3 %) had been breast-fed. A positive association was found between breast-feeding and the healthy, meat and vegetable pattern (r = 0·267) but not with the other two patterns. Higher scores on this pattern were also associated with younger age, lower BMI, higher birth weight, high likelihood of being in the less-disadvantaged Socio-economic Indexes for Areas category and less likelihood of the child's parents having a lower educational level. These results provide suggestive evidence that breast-feeding during infancy is associated with a healthy dietary pattern in childhood and offers a likely pathway to explain the previously reported association between breast-feeding and chronic disease.
21729923	The interactions between transcription factors (TFs) and cis-regulatory DNA sequences control gene expression, constituting the essential functional linkages of gene regulatory networks. The aim of this study is to identify and integrate all putative TFs from six grass species: Brachypodium distachyon, maize, rice, sorghum, barley, and wheat with significant information into an integrative database (GramineaeTFDB) for comparative genomics and functional genomics. For each TF, sequence features, promoter regions, domain alignments, GO assignment, FL-cDNA information, if available, and cross-references to various public databases and genetic resources are provided. Additionally, GramineaeTFDB possesses a tool which aids the users to search for putative cis-elements located in the promoter regions of TFs and predict the functions of the TFs using cis-element-based functional prediction approach. We also supplied hyperlinks to expression profiles of those TF genes of maize, rice, and barley, for which data are available. Furthermore, information about the availability of FOX and Ds mutant lines for rice and maize TFs, respectively, are also accessible through hyperlinks. Our study provides an important user-friendly public resource for functional analyses and comparative genomics of grass TFs, and understanding of the architecture of transcriptional regulatory networks and evolution of the TFs in agriculturally important cereal crops.
21730200	Several angiosperm plant genomes, including Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), rice (Oryza sativa), poplar (Populus trichocarpa), and grapevine (Vitis vinifera), have been sequenced, but the lack of reference genomes in gymnosperm phyla reduces our understanding of plant evolution and restricts the potential impacts of genomics research. A gene catalog was developed for the conifer tree Picea glauca (white spruce) through large-scale expressed sequence tag sequencing and full-length cDNA sequencing to facilitate genome characterizations, comparative genomics, and gene mapping. The resource incorporates new and publicly available sequences into 27,720 cDNA clusters, 23,589 of which are represented by full-length insert cDNAs. Expressed sequence tags, mate-pair cDNA clone analysis, and custom sequencing were integrated through an iterative process to improve the accuracy of clustering outcomes. The entire catalog spans 30 Mb of unique transcribed sequence. We estimated that the P. glauca nuclear genome contains up to 32,520 transcribed genes owing to incomplete, partially sequenced, and unsampled transcripts and that its transcriptome could span up to 47 Mb. These estimates are in the same range as the Arabidopsis and rice transcriptomes. Next-generation methods confirmed and enhanced the catalog by providing deeper coverage for rare transcripts, by extending many incomplete clusters, and by augmenting the overall transcriptome coverage to 38 Mb of unique sequence. Genomic sample sequencing at 8.5% of the 19.8-Gb P. glauca genome identified 1,495 clusters representing highly repeated sequences among the cDNA clusters. With a conifer transcriptome in full view, functional and protein domain annotations clearly highlighted the divergences between conifers and angiosperms, likely reflecting their respective evolutionary paths.
21730357	Starch synthase (SS) I and IIIa are the first and second largest components of total soluble SS activity, respectively, in developing japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) endosperm. To elucidate the distinct and overlapping functions of these enzymes, double mutants were created by crossing the ss1 null mutant with the ss3a null mutant. In the F(2) generation, two opaque seed types were found to have either the ss1ss1/SS3ass3a or the SS1ss1/ss3ass3a genotype. Phenotypic analyses revealed lower SS activity in the endosperm of these lines than in those of the parent mutant lines since these seeds had different copies of SSI and SSIIIa genes in a heterozygous state. The endosperm of the two types of opaque seeds contained the unique starch with modified fine structure, round-shaped starch granules, high amylose content, and specific physicochemical properties. The seed weight was ∼90% of that of the wild type. The amount of granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) and the activity of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) were higher than in the wild type and parent mutant lines. The double-recessive homozygous mutant prepared from both ss1 and ss3a null mutants was considered sterile, while the mutant produced by the leaky ss1 mutant×ss3a null mutant cross was fertile. This present study strongly suggests that at least SSI or SSIIIa is required for starch biosynthesis in rice endosperm.
21731054	Striga hermonthica is an angiosperm parasite that causes substantial damage to a wide variety of cereal crop species, and to the livelihoods of subsistence farmers in sub-Saharan Africa. The broad host range of this parasite makes it a fascinating model for the study of host-parasite interactions, and suggests that effective long-term control strategies for the parasite will require an understanding of the potential for host range adaptation in parasite populations. We used a controlled experiment to test the extent to which the success or failure of S. hermonthica parasites to develop on a particular host cultivar (host resistance/compatibility) depends upon the identity of interacting host genotypes and parasite populations. We also tested the hypothesis that there is a genetic component to host range within individual S. hermonthica populations, using three rice cultivars with known, contrasting abilities to resist infection. The developmental success of S. hermonthica parasites growing on different rice-host cultivars (genotypes) depended significantly on a parasite population by host-genotype interaction. Genetic analysis using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers revealed that a small subset of AFLP markers showed 'outlier' genetic differentiation among sub-populations of S. hermonthica attached to different host cultivars. We suggest that, this indicates a genetic component to host range within populations of S. hermonthica, and that a detailed understanding of the genomic loci involved will be crucial in understanding host-parasite specificity and in breeding crop cultivars with broad spectrum resistance to S. hermonthica.
21731209	Stomach cancer is the one of the leading cause of cancer in southern region of India. Its incidence is decreasing worldwide yet on global scale stomach cancer remains one of the most common causes of cancer death. Etiology of gastric cancer includes Helicobacter pylori infection, diet and lifestyle, tobacco, alcohol and genetic susceptibility. In this review, we tried to find the contribution of Indian scientist in understanding the descriptive and observational epidemiology of stomach cancer. PubMed was used as a search platform using key words such as "stomach cancer, treatment, clinical characteristics, stomach cancer outcome, epidemiology, etiological factor and their corresponding Mesh terms were used in combination with Boolean operators OR, AND". Most of the reported studies on gastric cancer from India are case report or case series and few are case-control studies. Indian studies on this topic are limited and have observed H. pylori infection, salted tea, pickled food, rice intake, spicy food, soda (additive of food), tobacco and alcohol as risk factors for gastric cancer. More research is required to understand the etiology, develop suitable screening test, to demarcate high-risk population and to develop and evaluate the effect of primary prevention programs.
21731368
21731454	Salinity stress is an important environmental constraint limiting the productivity of many crops worldwide. In this report, experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of seed presoaking by bovine hemoglobin, an inducer of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), on salinity tolerance in rice (Oryza sativa) plants. The results showed that different concentrations of the hemoglobin (0.01, 0.05, 0.2, 1.0, and 5.0 g/L) differentially alleviated the inhibition of rice seed germination and thereafter seedling shoot growth caused by 100 mM NaCl stress, and the responses of 1.0 g/L hemoglobin was the most obvious. Further analyses showed that application of hemoglobin not only increased the HO-1 gene expression, but also differentially induced catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities or transcripts, thus decreasing the lipid peroxidation in germinating rice seeds subjected to salt stress. Compared with non-hemoglobin treatment, hemoglobin presoaking also increased the potassium (K) to sodium (Na) ratio both in the root and shoot parts after salinity stress. The effect is specific for HO-1 since the potent HO-1 inhibitor zinc protoporphyrin IX (ZnPPIX) blocked the positive actions of hemoglobin on seed germination and seedling shoot growth. Overall, these results suggested that hemoglobin performs an advantageous role in enhancement of salinity tolerance during rice seed germination.
21731498	Genomic imprinting causes the expression of an allele depending on its parental origin. In plants, most imprinted genes have been identified in Arabidopsis endosperm, a transient structure consumed by the embryo during seed formation. We identified imprinted genes in rice seed where both the endosperm and embryo are present at seed maturity. RNA was extracted from embryos and endosperm of seeds obtained from reciprocal crosses between two subspecies Nipponbare (Japonica rice) and 93-11 (Indica rice). Sequenced reads from cDNA libraries were aligned to their respective parental genomes using single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Reads across SNPs enabled derivation of parental expression bias ratios. A continuum of parental expression bias states was observed. Statistical analyses indicated 262 candidate imprinted loci in the endosperm and three in the embryo (168 genic and 97 non-genic). Fifty-six of the 67 loci investigated were confirmed to be imprinted in the seed. Imprinted loci are not clustered in the rice genome as found in mammals. All of these imprinted loci were expressed in the endosperm, and one of these was also imprinted in the embryo, confirming that in both rice and Arabidopsis imprinted expression is primarily confined to the endosperm. Some rice imprinted genes were also expressed in vegetative tissues, indicating that they have additional roles in plant growth. Comparison of candidate imprinted genes found in rice with imprinted candidate loci obtained from genome-wide surveys of imprinted genes in Arabidopsis to date shows a low degree of conservation, suggesting that imprinting has evolved independently in eudicots and monocots.
21732035	Phenylpropanoids, flavonoids and plant growth regulators in rice (Oryza sativa) variety (UPR 1823) inoculated with different cyanobacterial strains namely Anabaena oryzae, Anabaena doliolum, Phormidium fragile, Calothrix geitonos, Hapalosiphon intricatus, Aulosira fertilissima, Tolypothrix tenuis, Oscillatoria acuta and Plectonema boryanum were quantified using HPLC in pot conditions after 15 and 30 days. Qualitative analysis of the induced compounds using reverse phase HPLC and further confirmation with LC-MS/MS showed consistent accumulation of phenolic acids (gallic, gentisic, caffeic, chlorogenic and ferulic acids), flavonoids (rutin and quercetin) and phytohormones (indole acetic acid and indole butyric acid) in rice leaves. Plant growth promotion (shoot, root length and biomass) was positively correlated with total protein and chlorophyll content of leaves. Enzyme activity of peroxidase and phenylalanine ammonia lyase and total phenolic content was fairly high in rice leaves inoculated with O. acuta and P. boryanum after 30 days. Differential systemic accumulation of phenylpropanoids in plant leaves led us to conclude that cyanobacterial inoculation correlates positively with plant growth promotion and stress tolerance in rice. Furthermore, the study helped in deciphering possible mechanisms underlying plant growth promotion and stress tolerance in rice following cyanobacterial inoculation and indicated the less explored avenue of cyanobacterial colonization in stress tolerance against abiotic stress.
21732880	1. An experiment was conducted to test the directionality, scaling and reversibility of phenotypic responses of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) of adult ganders to rice husk (RH) diluted dietary switching. 2. A total of 96 140-d-old ganders were acclimatised to a basal diet for 2 weeks. The birds were randomly assigned to 4 treatments. On d 1, diets in the experimental groups were switched from the basal diet to diets which contained 200, 400 or 600 g/kg RH by mass, with no RH in the basal diet. After 21 d, the diet of all the experimental birds was switched back to the basal diet until d 42. 3. Increasing RH content significantly increased feed intake, and a decreased trend appeared after diet-switching. The weights of geese fed on the 600 g/kg RH diet for 21 d reduced, and were significantly less than those of the other three groups, while body weights (BW) of the geese in all groups increased after diet-switching back to the basal diet. At d 21, significantly heavier relative weights of proventriculus, gizzard and all gut components, except duodenum, were observed in birds fed on a 600 g/kg RH diet, and significantly heavier relative weights of gizzard were observed in birds given a 400 g/kg RH diet. Thickness of the two gastric walls, gizzard length and all gut components lengths increased significantly in birds given a 600 g/kg RH diet compared with the other three groups. At d 42, no significant differences were noted in the relative weights or lengths of GIT, except for the caeca, which were significantly heavier in birds fed on 600 g/kg RH diet. 4. The results of the experiment were in accordance with the predictions of the hypothesis that there is matching between loads and capacities. The observed phenotypic responses were directional and scaled to the demands.
21733337	Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs cause gastric ulceration through a number of mechanisms including inhibition of PG synthesis, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and induction of apoptosis. Recently, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) have been suggested to play a crucial role in these mechanisms. The present study investigated the protective effect of anthocyanins isolated from black rice bran (Heugjinjubyeo) against naproxen-induced gastric mucosal injury in rats. The oral administration of anthocyanins (5, 25 or 50 mg/kg body weight) showed significant protection against naproxen (80 mg/kg body weight)-induced gastric ulcer and inhibited lipid peroxidation in the gastric mucosa. In addition, pretreatment with anthocyanins resulted in a significant increase in the activities of radical-scavenging enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase. Also biochemical and zymographic analyses suggested that the administration of anthocyanins gives a significant protection against naproxen-induced gastric antral ulcer through scavenging ROS and regulation of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) activity. The results of intracellular radical activation show that anthocyanins suppress the generation of intracellular ROS and attenuate the suppression of MMP-2 activity by naproxen. These results suggest that anthocyanins extracted from black rice may offer potential remedy of gastric antral ulceration.
21733417	Ankle sprains are usually treated with the RICE protocol often with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) for pain reduction. We evaluated the effect of diclofenac, an NSAID, versus paracematol in the reduction of pain and acute edema of severe ankle sprains. Ninety patients, 18 to 60 years old, with Grade II acute ankle sprains were randomized into two groups. Group A (45 patients) received for the first 10 days diclofenac 75 mg orally twice per day. Group B (45 patients) received paracetamol 500 mg orally three times per day for the same period. We evaluated ankle joint edema with the Figure-of-Eight method and with the volumetric method, as well as pain with the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) in both groups. The patients had no significant differences concerning their baseline values (p > 0.05). The ankle joint edema was decreased in both groups (p < 0.001) but there was more edema in group A than in group B at the third post-traumatic day with both measurement methods (p = 0.028/0.025). By the tenth post-traumatic day no difference was found. Pain decreased in both groups at the third day and at the tenth day (p < 0.001). According to these results, diclofenac and paracetamol had the same effect on pain reduction of ankle sprains but more acute ankle edema was present in patients who were treated with diclofenac than in patients who were treated with paracetamol.
21733548	Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (DL-PCBs) contained in the smoke generated from rice straw burning in post-harvest paddy fields in Japan were analyzed to determine their congener profiles. Both the apportionment of toxic equivalent (TEQ) by using indicative congeners and the comparison of the homolog profiles showed that the PCDDs/PCDFs/DL-PCBs present in the rice-straw smoke were greatly influenced by those present as impurities in pentachlorophenol (PCP) and chlornitrofen (CNP, 4-nitrophenyl-2,4,6-trichlorophenyl ether) formulations that had been widely used as herbicides in paddy fields in Japan. Further, in order to investigate the effects of paddy-field soil on the PCDDs/PCDFs/DL-PCBs present in rice-straw smoke, PCDD/PCDF/DL-PCB homolog profiles of rice straw, rice-straw smoke and paddy-field soil were compared. Rice-straw smoke was generated by burning rice straw on a stainless-steel tray in a laboratory. The results suggested that the herbicides-originated PCDDs/PCDFs/DL-PCBs and the atmospheric PCDDs/PCDFs/DL-PCBs contributed predominantly to the presence of PCDDs/PCDFs/DL-PCBs in the rice-straw smoke while the contribution of PCDDs/PCDFs/DL-PCBs formed during rice straw burning was relatively minimal. The major sources of the PCDDs/PCDFs/DL-PCBs found in the rice-straw smoke were attributed primarily to the paddy-field soil adhered to the rice straw surface and secondarily to the air taken by the rice straw. The principal component analysis supported these conclusions. It is concluded that rice straw burning at paddy fields acts as a driving force in the transfer of PCDDs/PCDFs/DL-PCBs from paddy-field soil to the atmosphere.
21733624	A laccase-producing white-rot fungi strain Ganoderma sp.En3 was newly isolated from the forest of Tzu-chin Mountain in China. Ganoderma sp.En3 had a strong ability of decolorizing four synthetic dyes, two simulated dye bath effluents and the real textile dye effluent. Induction in the activity of laccase during the decolorization process indicated that laccase played an important role in the efficient decolorization of different dyes by this fungus. Phytotoxicity study with respect to Triticum aestivum and Oryza sativa demonstrated that Ganoderma sp.En3 was able to detoxify four synthetic dyes, two simulated dye effluents and the real textile dye effluent. The laccase gene lac-En3-1 and its corresponding full-length cDNA were then cloned and characterized from Ganoderma sp.En3. The deduced protein sequence of LAC-En3-1 contained four copper-binding conserved domains of typical laccase protein. The functionality of lac-En3-1 gene encoding active laccase was verified by expressing this gene in the yeast Pichia pastoris successfully. The recombinant laccase produced by the yeast transformant could decolorize the synthetic dyes, simulated dye effluents and the real textile dye effluent. The ability of decolorizing different dyes was positively related to the laccase activity. In addition, the 5'-flanking sequence upstream of the start codon ATG in lac-En3-1 gene was obtained. Many putative cis-acting responsive elements were predicted in the promoter region of lac-En3-1.
21734114	Ferredoxin-NADP(+)-oxidoreductase (FNR) mediates electron transfer between ferredoxin (Fd) and NADP(+); therefore, it is a key enzyme that provides the reducing power used in the Calvin cycle. Other than FNR, nitrite reductase, sulfite reductase, glutamate synthase, and Fd-thioredoxin reductase also accept electrons from Fd, an electron carrier protein in the stroma. Therefore, the regulation of electron partitioning in the chloroplast is important for photosynthesis and other metabolic pathways. The regulatory mechanism of electron partitioning, however, remains to be elucidated. We found, by taking advantage of a gain-of-function approach, that expression of two rice (Oryza sativa) full-length cDNAs of leaf-type FNRs (OsLFNR1 and OsLFNR2) led to altered chlorophyll fluorescence and growth in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice. We revealed that overexpression of the OsLFNR1 and OsLFNR2 full-length cDNAs resulted in distinct phenotypes despite the high sequence similarity between them. Expression of OsLFNR1 affected the nitrogen assimilation pathway without inhibition of photosynthesis under normal conditions. On the other hand, OsLFNR2 expression led to the impairment of photosynthetic linear electron transport as well as Fd-dependent cyclic electron flow around photosystem I. The endogenous protein level of OsLFNR was found to be suppressed in both OsLFNR1- and OsLFNR2-overexpressing rice plants, leading to changes in the stoichiometry of the two LFNR isoforms within the thylakoid and soluble fractions. Thus, we propose that the stoichiometry of two LFNR isoforms plays an important role in electron partitioning between carbon fixation and nitrogen assimilation.
21735161	Levoglucosan and carbonaceous species in the background aerosol of coastal southeast China were measured at Jianfengling (JFL), a background mountain site in a National Reserve Park on Hainan Island, and at Hok Tsui (HT), a rural site on the southern coast of Hong Kong from April to May of 2004 during an intensive field study. We integrated the information from field study, satellite and backward trajectory model to examine the long-range transport of biomass burning smoke from the Philippines and assess its impact on background aerosol in coastal southeast China. The average levoglucosan concentrations were 42 and 30 ng m(-3) at JFL and HT, respectively, while the organic and elemental carbon concentrations were 3.1 and 0.4 μg C m(-3) respectively at JFL, and 4.1 and 1.3 μg C m(-3) respectively at HT. Elevated levoglucosan concentrations of 85-106 ng m(-3) (250-340% extra loadings) at JFL and 57 ng m(-3) (170% extra loading) at HT were observed during transport events in which air masses originated from the Philippines. Fire hot spot counts and aerosol index derived from satellite data showed that the spread of biomass burning smoke from the Philippines resulted in large-scale dense aerosol clouds in the adjacent South China Sea and the western Pacific Ocean. The observed high ratio of two biomass-burning tracers (levoglucosan to mannosan) at JFL (7-36) and HT (27) indicated that the biomass smoke originating from the Philippines had significant contributions from open-field burning of agricultural residues, such as rice straw. The pollution plumes were transported to southeast China resulting in elevated concentrations of carbonaceous aerosol and levoglucosan in particular. Using a simplified receptor-based approach, biomass smoke aerosol was estimated to account for 16-28% of OC in the background atmosphere of Hainan and 4.9% of OC at the rural site of Hong Kong during these episode cases, indicating that biomass burning smoke generated in the Philippines could have a significant contribution to background ambient aerosol of southeast coastal China.
21735198	Endogenous brassinosteroid concentrations are an important target for optimizing the growth of crop plants because these hormones influence yield and stress tolerance. The CYP734A subfamily of cytochrome P450 enzymes has been shown to inactivate brassinosteroid hormones in Arabidopsis and tomato. Rice has three genes for CYP734A enzymes whose expression appears to be up-regulated by exogenous brassinolide. The amino acids predicted to be in the active site of the rice enzymes vary when compared with the Arabidopsis protein sequence, suggesting that there could be differences in their ability to inactivate the hormone. We have cloned three CYP734A rice genes and expressed them in Arabidopsis to assess their efficacy as brassinosteroid-inactivating enzymes. We found that incorrect transcript splicing can complicate the expression of monocot genomic clones in a eudicot. However, the Arabidopsis system allowed us to characterize an atypical splice variant in one of the rice genes. cDNA clones produced high levels of expression and conferred the brassinosteroid inactivation phenotype. This study shows that Arabidopsis is a useful heterologous system for testing plant genes predicted to act in biochemical pathways that are conserved between monocots and eudicots.
21735233	Auxin response factors (ARFs) encode transcriptional factors that bind specifically to the TGTCTC-containing auxin response elements found in the promoters of primary/early auxin response genes that regulate plant development. In this study, investigation of the tomato genome revealed 21 putative functional ARF genes (SlARFs), a number comparable to that found in Arabidopsis (23) and rice (25). The full cDNA sequences of 15 novel SlARFs were isolated and delineated by sequencing of PCR products. A comprehensive genome-wide analysis of this gene family is presented, including the gene structures, chromosome locations, phylogeny, and conserved motifs. In addition, a comparative analysis between ARF family genes in tomato and maize was performed. A phylogenetic tree generated from alignments of the full-length protein sequences of 21 OsARFs, 23 AtARFs, 31 ZmARFs, and 21 SlARFs revealed that these ARFs were clustered into four major groups. However, we could not find homologous genes in rice, maize, or tomato with AtARF12-15 and AtARF20-23. The expression patterns of tomato ARF genes were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR. Our comparative analysis will help to define possible functions for many of these newly isolated ARF-family genes in plant development.
21736653	Although the quiescent center (QC) is crucial to root development, the molecular mechanisms that regulate its postembryonic maintenance remain obscure. In this study, a semi-dominant mutant that exhibits pleiotropic defects in root tissues, which includes the root cap, lateral and crown roots, was isolated. The mutant is characterized by a loss of QC identity during postembryonic development, and the displayed defects result from a stabilizing mutation in domain II of OsIAA23 (Os06g39590). Expression of OsIAA23 is specific to the QC of the root tip during the development of primary, lateral and crown roots. Consistent with OsIAA23 expression in the QC, the auxin signaling marked by DR5p::GUS (ß-glucuronidase) was absent in the QC region of Osiaa23. Transgenic rice plants harboring Osiaa23 under the control of the QHB promoter mimic partially the defects of Osiaa23. These results indicate that the maintenance of the QC is dependent on OsIAA23-mediated auxin signaling in the QC. These findings provide insight into Aux/IAA-based auxin signaling during postembryonic maintenance of the QC in plants.
21736849	It is posed that protein intake is tightly regulated by the human body. The role of sensory qualities in the satiating effects of protein, however, requires further clarification. Our objective was to determine the effect of within-meal protein content and taste on subsequent food choice and satiety. We used a cross-over design whereby sixty healthy, unrestrained subjects (twenty-three males and thirty-seven females) with a mean age of 20·8 (SD 2·1) years and a mean BMI of 21·5 (SD 1·6) kg/m2 were offered one of four isoenergetic preloads (rice meal) for lunch: two low in protein (about 7 % energy derived from protein) and two high in protein (about 25 % energy from protein). Both had a sweet and savoury version. At 30 min after preload consumption, subjects were offered an ad libitum buffet, consisting of food products differing in protein content (low/high) and taste (sweet/savoury). In addition, the computerised Leeds Food Preference Questionnaire (LFPQ) was run to assess several components of food reward. The results showed no effect of protein content of the preloads on subsequent food choice. There was an effect of taste; after eating the savoury preloads, choice and intake of sweet products were higher than of savoury products. No such preference was seen after the sweet preloads. No differences in satiety were observed. To conclude, within one eating episode, within-meal protein content in these quantities seems not to have an effect on subsequent food choice. This appears to be mostly determined by taste, whereby savoury taste exerts the strongest modulating effect. The results of the LFPQ provided insight into underlying processes.
21737190	The effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) -Glomus intraradices and G. geosporum on arsenic (As) and phosphorus (P) uptake by lowland (Guangyinzhan) and upland rice (Handao 502) were investigated in soil, spiked with and without 60 mg As kg(-1). In As-contaminated soil, Guangyinzhan inoculated with G. intraradices or Handao 502 inoculated with G. geosporum enhanced As tolerance, grain P content, grain yield. However, Guangyinzhan inoculated with G. geosporum or Handao 502 inoculated with G. intraradices decreased grain P content, grain yield and the molar ratio of grain P/As content, and increased the As concentration and the ratio of grain/straw As concentration. These results show that rice/AMF combinations had significant (p < 0.05) effects on grain As concentration, grain yield and grain P uptake. The variation in the transfer and uptake of As and P reflected strong functional diversity in AM (arbuscular mycorrhizal) symbioses.
21737194	To examine the link between corn agriculture and the observed decline of the endangered southern bell frog (SBF), the effects of two corn crop pesticides on larval growth and development were investigated. Tadpoles were exposed to terbufos sulfone (10 μg/L), a major breakdown product of the insecticide terbufos, and the herbicide atrazine (25 μg/L) individually and as a mixture until the completion of metamorphosis. Atrazine did not interact synergistically with terbufos sulfone or result in significant effects on growth and development alone, although there was some indication of accelerated metamorphosis in the pilot study. Terbufos sulfone alone and as a mixture (terbufos/atrazine) significantly slowed larval development and ultimately delayed metamorphosis. The observed developmental effects from an environmentally relevant concentration of terbufos sulfone indicates a risk posed by this persistent degradation product to the endangered SBF, which breeds and develops in the rice bays adjacent to corn fields treated with pesticides.
21737279	It is unclear whether gene regulatory changes that drive evolution at the population and species levels [1-3] can be extrapolated to higher taxonomic levels. Here, we investigated the role of cis-regulatory changes in fruit evolution within the Brassicaceae family. REPLUMLESS (RPL, At5g02030) controls development of the replum, a structure with an important role in fruit opening and seed dispersal [6]. We show that reduced repla resembling the Arabidopsis rpl mutant correlated across the Brassicaceae with a point mutation in a conserved cis-element of RPL. When introduced in Arabidopsis, this nucleotide change specifically reduced RPL expression and function in the fruit. Conversely, Brassica RPL containing the Arabidopsis version of the cis-element was sufficient to convert the Brassica replum to an Arabidopsis-like morphology. A mutation in the same nucleotide position of the same cis-element in a RPL ortholog has been independently selected to reduce seed dispersal during domestication of rice, in spite of its very different fruit anatomy. Thus, single-nucleotide regulatory mutations at the same position explain developmental variation in seed-dispersal structures at the population and family levels and suggest that the same genetic toolkit is relevant to domestication and natural evolution in widely diverged species.
21737747	Land plants have developed a cuticle preventing uncontrolled water loss. Here we report that an ATP-binding cassette (ABC) subfamily G (ABCG) full transporter is required for leaf water conservation in both wild barley and rice. A spontaneous mutation, eibi1.b, in wild barley has a low capacity to retain leaf water, a phenotype associated with reduced cutin deposition and a thin cuticle. Map-based cloning revealed that Eibi1 encodes an HvABCG31 full transporter. The gene was highly expressed in the elongation zone of a growing leaf (the site of cutin synthesis), and its gene product also was localized in developing, but not in mature tissue. A de novo wild barley mutant named "eibi1.c," along with two transposon insertion lines of rice mutated in the ortholog of HvABCG31 also were unable to restrict water loss from detached leaves. HvABCG31 is hypothesized to function as a transporter involved in cutin formation. Homologs of HvABCG31 were found in green algae, moss, and lycopods, indicating that this full transporter is highly conserved in the evolution of land plants.
21737944	Plants synthesize isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) via the mevalonate pathway and the methylerythritol phosphate (MEP) pathway. IPP is condensed to its allylic isomer, dimethylallyl diphosphate, to yield geranylgeranyl diphosphate, a common precursor for the production of cyclic diterpenoids. Studies of subcellular localization and of transgenic plants defective in the enzymes involved in the pathway have revealed that the synthesis processes of plastidic diterpenoids are metabolically separated in the plastids. Ditepenoid phytoalexins are synthesized through the plastidic MEP pathway in rice. The biosynthetic genes responsible for diterpenoid phytoalexins are clustered on the rice chromosomes, and the expression of them was coordinately regulated under stress conditions. Furthermore, a basic leucine zipper transcription factor, OsTGAP1, which is induced by the fungal chitin oligosaccharide elicitor, was identified as a key regulator of coordinated expression of the clustered biosynthetic genes for phytoalexin production in rice.
21738774	Rice paddies harbour a large variety of organisms including larvae of malaria mosquitoes. These paddies are challenging for mosquito control because their large size, slurry and vegetation make it difficult to effectively apply a control agent. Aquatain, a monomolecular surface film, can be considered a suitable mosquito control agent for such breeding habitats due to its physical properties. The properties allow Aquatain to self-spread over a water surface and affect multiple stages of the mosquito life cycle. A trial based on a pre-test/post-test control group design evaluated the potential of Aquatain as a mosquito control agent at Ahero rice irrigation scheme in Kenya. After Aquatain application at a dose of 2 ml/m(2) on rice paddies, early stage anopheline larvae were reduced by 36%, and late stage anopheline larvae by 16%. However, even at a lower dose of 1 ml/m(2) there was a 93.2% reduction in emergence of anopheline adults and 69.5% reduction in emergence of culicine adults. No pupation was observed in treated buckets that were part of a field bio-assay carried out parallel to the trial. Aquatain application saved nearly 1.7 L of water in six days from a water surface of 0.2 m(2) under field conditions. Aquatain had no negative effect on rice plants as well as on a variety of non-target organisms, except backswimmers. We demonstrated that Aquatain is an effective agent for the control of anopheline and culicine mosquitoes in irrigated rice paddies. The agent reduced densities of aquatic larval stages and, more importantly, strongly impacted the emergence of adult mosquitoes. Aquatain also reduced water loss due to evaporation. No negative impacts were found on either abundance of non-target organisms, or growth and development of rice plants. Aquatain, therefore, appears a suitable mosquito control tool for use in rice agro-ecosystems.
21739352	This is the first effort to investigate the candidate genes involved in kranz developmental regulation and C(4) metabolic fluxes in Eleocharis vivipara, which is a leafless freshwater amphibious plant and possesses a distinct culms anatomy structure and photosynthetic pattern in contrasting environments. A terrestrial specific SSH library was constructed to investigate the genes involved in kranz anatomy developmental regulation and C(4) metabolic fluxes. A total of 73 ESTs and 56 unigenes in 384 clones were identified by array hybridization and sequencing. In total, 50 unigenes had homologous genes in the databases of rice and Arabidopsis. The real-time quantitative PCR results showed that most of the genes were accumulated in terrestrial culms and ABA-induced culms. The C(4) marker genes were stably accumulated during the culms development process in terrestrial culms. With respect to C(3) culms, C(4) photosynthesis metabolism consumed much more transporters and translocators related to ion metabolism, organic acids and carbohydrate metabolism, phosphate metabolism, amino acids metabolism, and lipids metabolism. Additionally, ten regulatory genes including five transcription factors, four receptor-like proteins, and one BURP protein were identified. These regulatory genes, which co-accumulated with the culms developmental stages, may play important roles in culms structure developmental regulation, bundle sheath chloroplast maturation, and environmental response. These results shed new light on the C(4) metabolic fluxes, environmental response, and anatomy structure developmental regulation in E. vivipara.
21739353	The blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, one of the most devastating rice pathogens in the world, shows biotin-dependent growth. We have developed a strategy for creating disease resistance to M. oryzae whereby intercellular production of tamavidin 1, a biotin-binding protein from Pleurotus cornucopiae occurs in transgenic rice plants. The gene that encodes tamavidin 1, fused to the sequence for a secretion signal peptide derived from rice chitinase gene, was connected to the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, and the resultant construct was introduced into rice. The tamavidin 1 was accumulated at levels of 0.1-0.2% of total soluble leaf proteins in the transgenic rice and it was localized in the intercellular space of rice leaves. The tamavidin 1 purified from the transgenic rice was active, it bound to biotin and inhibited in vitro growth of M. oryzae by causing biotin deficiency. The transgenic rice plants showed a significant resistance to M. oryzae. This study shows the possibility of a new strategy to engineer disease resistance in higher plants by taking advantage of a pathogen's auxotrophy.
21739496	Cereals are an important source of food, feed and fuel with a rapidly increasing global demand. However, cereal seeds contain high levels of starch and polysaccharides, making the isolation of high quality RNA extremely difficult. To develop a novel method for extracting high quality total RNA from various starch- and polysaccharides-rich cereal seeds, such as maize, rice, sorghum and wheat. We developed a modified sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS)/TRIzol method. The combined use of a Tris buffer (pH 9.0) and SDS before TRIzol extraction effectively resolved the problem of seed homogenate solidification in such a buffer. A high concentration of SDS was used separately, not only to promote cell lysis but also to effectively dissolve seed sample containing high levels of starch. Moreover, acid phenol saturated with 0.1 M citrate buffer (pH 4.3) was used to separate RNA from DNAs, proteins and high levels of starch. This rapid protocol was compared with other RNA isolation methods preferentially used for plants rich in polysaccharides and secondary metabolites. Gel electrophoresis analysis indicated that the extracted total RNA had good integrity without apparent DNA contamination. Furthermore, an A₂₆₀/₂₈₀ ratio of approximately 2.0, an A₂₆₀/₂₃₀ ratio of more than 2.0 and RIN values of more than 8.6 indicated that the isolated RNA was of high purity. The isolated RNA was suitable for subsequent molecular manipulations, such as reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR), rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and real-time PCR. The study has described an easy, efficient and highly reproducible method for RNA isolation from various cereal seeds.
21740720	A total of 201 samples of brown rice, polished rice, and two types of by-products, blue-tinged rice and discolored rice, were collected from rice stores maintained at 51 rice processing complexes in Korea. These samples were analyzed for the presence of Fusarium mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON), nivalenol (NIV), and zearalenone (ZEA). Contaminants (and their ranges) found in discolored rice samples were DON (59 to 1,355 ng g(-1)), NIV (66 to 4,180 ng g(-1)), and ZEA (25 to 3,305 ng g(-1)); those found in blue-tinged (less-ripe) rice were DON (86 to 630 ng g(-1)), NIV (50 to 3,607 ng g(-1)), and ZEA (26 to 3,156 ng g(-1)). Brown rice samples were contaminated mostly with NIV and ZEA (52 to 569 ng g(-1) and 47 to 235 ng g(-1), respectively). Polished rice samples were largely free from mycotoxins, although one sample was contaminated with NIV (77 ng g(-1)). When the fungal flora associated with each rice sample was investigated, blue-tinged rice was the most often contaminated with Fusarium graminearum (3.8%), followed by the discolored rice (2.4%) and brown rice (1.6%) samples. Using PCR, toxin genotyping of 266 isolates of F. graminearum revealed that most isolates (96%) were NIV producers. In conclusion, this survey is the first report of the cocontamination of Korean rice and its by-products with trichothecenes and ZEA. Importantly, it also provides new information on the natural contamination of rice by Fusarium mycotoxins.
21741417	The cost of the lignocellulose-hydrolyzing enzymes used in the saccharification process of ethanol production from biomass accounts for a relatively high proportion of total processing costs. Cell surface engineering technology has facilitated a reduction in these costs by integrating saccharification and fermentation processes into a recombinant microbe strain expressing heterologous enzymes on the cell surface. We constructed a recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae that not only hydrolyzed hemicelluloses by codisplaying endoxylanase from Trichoderma reesei, β-xylosidase from Aspergillus oryzae, and β-glucosidase from Aspergillus aculeatus but that also assimilated xylose through the expression of xylose reductase and xylitol dehydrogenase from Pichia stipitis and xylulokinase from S. cerevisiae. The recombinant strain successfully produced ethanol from rice straw hydrolysate consisting of hemicellulosic material containing xylan, xylooligosaccharides, and cellooligosaccharides without requiring the addition of sugar-hydrolyzing enzymes or detoxication. The ethanol titer of the strain was 8.2g/l after 72h fermentation, which was approximately 2.5-fold higher than that of the control strain. The yield (grams of ethanol per gram of total sugars in rice straw hydrolysate consumed) was 0.41g/g, which corresponded to 82% of the theoretical yield. The cell surface-engineered strain was thus highly effective for consolidating the process of ethanol production from hemicellulosic materials.
21741764	Greenhouse hydroponic experiments were conducted using Cd-sensitive (cv. Xiushui63) and tolerant (Bing97252) rice genotypes to evaluate how different genotypes responded to Cd toxicity in presence of glutathione (GSH). Results showed that GSH alleviates Cd-toxicity, ameliorates Cd-induced damages on leaf/root ultrastructures. Nine proteins in roots were identified, using 2-DE coupled with mass spectrometry, whose expression were down-regulated in Xiushui63, up-regulated/unchanged in Bing97252 by Cd; coinstantaneously enhanced/unchanged in Cd+GSH over Cd alone treatment in both genotypes. They are l-ascorbate peroxidase, putative short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase, Glycolipid transfer protein, elongation factor, Os04g0652700, carbonic anhydrase, Os08g0374000, chitinase, and putative disease resistance response protein. Eight proteins in leaves with expression of increase in Bing97252 but down-regulate/unchange in Xiushui63, categorized as four groups of their functions: carbon metabolism, TCA cycle, photorespiration and RNA processing. Furthermore, we identified eight proteins with repressed expression in Cd-treated and up-regulated in Cd+GSH-treated rice leaves of Xiushui63.
21741836	Strigolactones (SLs) are rhizosphere communication chemicals. Recent studies of highly branched mutants revealed that SL or its metabolites work as a phytohormone to inhibit shoot branching. When SLs are exogenously applied to the rice d10-1 mutant that has a highly branched phenotype caused by a defect in the SL biosynthesis gene (CCD8), they inhibit tiller bud outgrowth (branching in rice) of the mutant. We focused our attention on the SL function as a phytohormone and tried to find new chemicals mimicking the hormonal action of SL by screening chemicals that inhibit branching of rice d10-1 mutant. Fortunately, we found 5-(4-chlorophenoxy)-3-methylfuran-2(5H)-one (3a) as a new chemical possessing SL-like activity against the rice d10-1 mutant. Then, we prepared several derivatives of 3a (3b-3k) to examine their ability to inhibit shoot branching of rice d10-1. These derivatives were synthesized by a one-pot coupling reaction between phenols and halo butenolide to give 5-phenoxy 3-methylfuran-2(5H)-one (3) derivatives, which possess a common substructure with SLs. Some of the derivatives showed SL-like activity more potently than GR24, a typical SL derivative, in a rice assay. As SLs also show activity by inducing seed germination of root parasitic plants, the induction activity of these derivatives was also evaluated. Here we report the structure-activity relationships of these compounds.
