15639985	In eukaryotic cells, the role of mitochondria is to generate both ATP and carbon skeletons for biosynthetic purposes. Meanwhile, the mitochondrial genes, in plant, are also involved in the development of anther. The presence of genetic information within mitochondria and nucleus make intracellular cooperation necessary. In this paper, a new RAPD method is used to analyze the expression differences of rice mitochondrial gene with the change of nuclear background. Many different fragments are obtained from hybrids, but not from sterile line or remainder line. According to the results, it is concluded that there are extensive effects of nuclear background on mitochondrial gene expression.
15640031	Zinc finger protein is one of the important transcription factors with zinc finger domain that regulates gene expression in the eukaryotic organisms mainly by specifically interacting with target DNA sequence(cis-acting element). It could be divided into several types of zinc finger proteins, such as C2H2, C2HC, C2C2, C2HCC2C2, C2C2C2C2 etc, based on numbers and positions of Cys and His residues. Of these, C2H2 type zinc finger protein is the most clearly identified zinc finger transcription factor, with the wide existence in human, animals and plants. The characterized plant C2H2 zinc finger proteins are mainly involved in plant growth and development and the responses to environmental stresses. Up to now, more than 50 C2H2 zinc finger proteins have been reported in plants including petunia, Arabidopsis, wheat and rice, and most of them have the plant-specific QALGGH motif in zinc finger domain. This paper briefly introduces the structure, recognition of target-DNA sequence and functions involved in development or environmental stresses of plant C2H2 zinc finger proteins.
15640121	In this research, Rubisco activase gene (rca) was amplified using specific primers and inserted into pGEM T-easy vector, and then cut with EcoRI after confirming by sequencing. The fragment was subcloned into pBluescript KS+, digested with the enzyme BamHI and inserted into the binary expression vector pCAMBIA1301, and the resulting construction with antisense rca was named pCAMR02. The pCAMR02 vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 by electroporation and transformed to embryos of rice (Oryza. Sativa L.ssp.japonica) cultivar Zhonghua11 via Agrobacterium tumefaciens system. Plantlets were regenerated in vitro by resistance selection on medium containing various concentrations of hygromycin. Both GUS histochemical assays and PCR amplification demonstrated that antisense rca was integrated into T0 genomes and inherited to T1. The measurement of phenotypes of transgenic rice plants with antisense rca showed that most of them could hardly survive at ambient CO2 concentration, even could not grow. The antisense plants that survived under natural condition were dwarf and grew slower than the wild-type controls, and their contents of RCA and Rubisco changed significantly. These plants generated in this experiment will be used to study the relationship between RCA and Rubisco and their regulation.
15640122	An EST related to the gene PCD was isolated from SSH (suppression subtractive hybridization) library of callus tissues of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Primers were designed to obtain its complete cDNA encoding putative apoptosis-related protein from Shanyou 63 (Oryza sativa L.). Sequencing indicated that the gene contained a 387 bp open reading frame, which encodes a protein containing 128 aa. Sequence alignment showed that the deduced protein is highly homologous to the known PDCD5. Real time quantitative PCR was performed to reveal that rPDCD5 was up-regulated in abiotic stress (low temperature and NaCl treatment).
15640123	The intersubspecific hybrids between Indica and Japanica varieties are generally semi sterile, which limits the use of Indica-Japanica heterosis. Genetic study of wide compatibility gene (WCG) in rice helps to understand the mechanism of semi sterility and make it possible to overcome this phenomenon. In this study, the P1,P2,F1,B1,B2,and F2 of Indica-Japanica hybrid of 3037/02428 were analyzed by the major gene and minor gene mixed inheritance model. The research showed that Apart from single major gene, the WCG inheritance is also affected by minor genes. Not only major gene's effect on fertility but also minor gene's effect should be considered when utilize WCG to overcome semisterile between subspecies.
15640461	The cholesterol-lowering abilities of rice bran's fiber and oil apart from its fatty acid composition remain unclear. The objective of the study was to assess the effects of defatted rice bran and rice bran oil in an average American diet on blood lipids in moderately hypercholesterolemic persons. Study 1 used a parallel-arm design. Twenty-six healthy volunteers consumed a diet with 13-22 g dietary fiber/d for 3 wk, and then 13 of the volunteers were switched to a diet with defatted rice bran to double the fiber intake for 5 wk. Study 2 was a randomized, crossover, 10-wk feeding study performed in 14 volunteers who consumed a diet with rice bran oil (1/3 of the total dietary fat) substituted for an oil blend that had a fatty acid composition similar to that of the rice bran oil. Serum lipids and factor VII were measured in both studies. Defatted rice bran did not lower lipid concentrations. In study 2, total cholesterol was significantly lower with consumption of the diet containing rice bran oil than with consumption of the control diet. Moreover, with consumption of the rice bran oil diet, LDL cholesterol decreased by 7% (P < 0.0004), whereas HDL cholesterol was unchanged. Rice bran oil, not fiber, lowers cholesterol in healthy, moderately hypercholesterolemic adults. There were no substantial differences in the fatty acid composition of the diets; therefore, the reduction of cholesterol was due to other components present in the rice bran oil, such as unsaponifiable compounds.
15642004	The Ghanaian National Malaria Control Programme has prioritized insecticide-treated materials as a key strategy for malaria control. We report on a survey of the distribution of the molecular forms of Anopheles gambiae Giles (Diptera: Culicidae) and insecticide resistance (the kdr mutation), carried out by sampling mosquitoes from 11 locations in Ghana and one additional site in Burkina Faso. The molecular M and S forms of An. gambiae were found to occur in sympatry in southern Ghana. The S form predominated throughout its distribution in the coastal savannah, except at one location in the strand and mangrove zone where rice was cultivated. The M form was the only form collected in northern Ghana and was the predominant form (97.5%) in Burkina Faso. No M/S hybrids were detected. The kdr mutation was observed at very high frequencies (98-100%) within the S form but reached a maximum of only 3.38% in the M form in one population at an irrigation scheme in the Ghanaian coastal savannah zone.
15642712	Plants contain at least five subfamilies of starch synthases, granule bound starch synthase (GBSS) and starch synthases I, II, III, and IV (SSI, SSII, SSIII, SSIV). In this work, two members of SSIII and SSIV, respectively, were cloned and designated OsSSIII-1/-2 and OsSSIV-1/-2 in rice. Together with six other previously reported genes, the SS gene family in rice therefore is known to be duplicated and to comprise ten SS genes distributed among the five subfamilies. The starch synthase activity of each SS was confirmed by expression and enzyme activity assay in E. coli. Expression profile analysis with reverse transcription-PCR, western blotting and zymogram, indicates that OsSSIII-2 and OsSSIV-1 are mainly expressed in endosperm, while OsSSIII-1 and OsSSIV-2 are mainly expressed in the leaves. With a similar pattern of genes encoding other enzymes for starch synthesis, (such as GBSS, SSII, ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylases, and branching enzymes), it is suggested that two divergent groups of these genes should be classified in rice. Group I genes are preferentially expressed in the endosperm and function on storage starch synthesis. Group II genes are mainly expressed in leaves and some of them in the early developing endosperm, and function on transient starch synthesis in rice.
15643083	The plasmid p13W8 carrying antisense fragment of waxy gene and plasmid pCAMBIA1300 containing hpt gene were introduced into rice by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated co-transformation, and 86 transgenic plants were obtained, 32 of them showed positive bands for antisense waxy gene by PCR analysis, the waxy-positive plant frequency is 37.2%. The segregation of antisense fragment of waxy gene and hpt gene was observed by PCR using hpt gene primers and waxy gene primers respectively in 29 T(1) population. One hundred and eighty-three plants containing only the antisense fragment of waxy gene were identified in 1 264 T(1) plants, the waxy-positive plant frequency is 14.4% (Table 1). The amylose content of seeds derived from transgenic plants with only the antisense fragment of waxy gene were determined, varying degrees of reduction in amylose content were found in some plants (Table 2). Four T(1) plants with reduced amylose content were selected through anther culture. Thirty-four anther culture plants seed normally, 23 of them were shown to contain only the antisense fragment of waxy gene (Table 3) by PCR analysis, and the amylose content was reduced to 5%-12% (Table 4). It took only one and half years to obtain the stably inherited markerless transgenic rice with reduced amylose content by co-transformation and anther culture technique.
15643811	In a 4 x 4 Latin square design study, four rumen-cannulated local yellow cattle, average weight 330 kg, were fed urea-treated fresh rice straw (UFRS) ad libitum and given 1 kg cassava root meal daily as basal diet in each 30-day trial period. Four treatment levels of crude protein of fresh cassava tops (FCT) were supplied: 0 (FCT0), 50 (FCT50), 100 (FCT100) and 150 g (FCT150) crude protein per 100 kg body weight. The results showed a continuous decrease in dry matter intake (DMI) of UFRS with increasing level of FCT supplementation (p<0.001). Total DMI for treatments FCT150, FCT100, FCT50 and FCT0 were 2.66, 2.42, 2.23 and 2.05 kg dry matter per 100 kg live weight per day, respectively. Increasing levels of FCT supplementation increased the concentration of total volatile fatty acids (p<0.05) and ammonia (p<0.001) and resulted in a decrease in pH (p<0.05). Rumen protozoa population varied widely but was significantly lower with increasing FCT supplementation (p<0.001), while rumen bacteria population was higher (p<0.05). Overall, average plasma triiodothyronine and thyroxine concentrations in the four groups were respectively 1.36, 0.94, 0.91, 0.80 ng/ml (p<0.01) and 60.9, 48.7, 45.2, 42.5 ng/ml (p<0.001). There were non-significant differences in alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase concentrations among the treatments.
15644130	Cyclic nucleotides are ubiquitous intracellular messengers. Until recently, the roles of cyclic nucleotides in plant cells have proven difficult to uncover. With an understanding of the protein domains which can bind cyclic nucleotides (CNB and GAF domains) we scanned the completed genomes of the higher plants Arabidopsis thaliana (mustard weed) and Oryza sativa (rice) for the effectors of these signalling molecules. Our analysis found that several ion channels and a class of thioesterases constitute the possible cyclic nucleotide binding proteins in plants. Contrary to some reports, we found no biochemical or bioinformatic evidence for a plant cyclic nucleotide regulated protein kinase, suggesting that cyclic nucleotide functions in plants have evolved differently than in mammals. This paper provides a molecular framework for the discussion of cyclic nucleotide function in plants, and resolves a longstanding debate about the presence of a cyclic nucleotide dependent kinase in plants.
15644465	Publicly available protein sequences represent only a small fraction of the full catalog of genes encoded by the genomes of different plants, such as green algae, mosses, gymnosperms, and angiosperms. By contrast, an enormous amount of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) exists for a wide variety of plant species, representing a substantial part of all transcribed plant genes. Integrating protein and EST sequences in comparative and evolutionary analyses is not straightforward because of the heterogeneous nature of both types of sequence data. By combining information from publicly available EST and protein sequences for 32 different plant species, we identified more than 250,000 plant proteins organized in more than 12,000 gene families. Approximately 60% of the proteins are absent from current sequence databases but provide important new information about plant gene families. Analysis of the distribution of gene families over different plant species through phylogenetic profiling reveals interesting insights into plant gene evolution, and identifies species- and lineage-specific gene families, orphan genes, and conserved core genes across the green plant lineage. We counted a similar number of approximately 9,500 gene families in monocotyledonous and eudicotyledonous plants and found strong evidence for the existence of at least 33,700 genes in rice (Oryza sativa). Interestingly, the larger number of genes in rice compared to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) can partially be explained by a larger amount of species-specific single-copy genes and species-specific gene families. In addition, a majority of large gene families, typically containing more than 50 genes, are bigger in rice than Arabidopsis, whereas the opposite seems true for small gene families.
15644506	The effects of propylene glycol (PEG) on performance, ruminal fermentation, blood glucose and insulin, carcass traits, and abundance of IGF-1 mRNA in LM and leptin mRNA in adipose tissue were examined in 20 Korean native steers, with 10 each in control and PEG-fed groups, respectively. Propylene glycol mixed with concentrate diet was provided daily at a rate of 2.5 mL/kg BW(0.75). Experimental animals were fed a concentrate diet to 1.8% of BW twice daily plus rice straw ad libitum during the 4-mo period before marketing. Daily DMI and ADG did not differ between control and PEG-fed steers. Steers receiving PEG displayed an increase (P = 0.044) in propionate concentration, whereas acetate concentration decreased (P = 0.032). Although blood glucose was not affected, serum insulin was increased (P = 0.047) by PEG feeding. Propylene glycol did not affect carcass weight, 13th-rib fat depth, marbling score, or lipid content of LM. The backfat of PEG-fed steers did not differ in leptin mRNA from control steers, whereas increased leptin mRNA was found in i.m. fat with PEG feeding. There was no treatment effect on the level of IGF-1 mRNA in the LM of the tested steers. These results indicate that the amount of PEG fed to steers was not sufficient to improve marbling score through enhanced ruminal propionate and insulin. The role of increased i.m. leptin mRNA level in PEG-fed steers remains to be further elucidated.
15644978	Transposons of the Tc1-mariner superfamily are widespread in eukaryotic genomes. We have isolated the mariner element Vulmar1 from Beta vulgaris L., which is 3909 bp long and bordered by perfect terminal inverted repeats of 32 bp with homology to terminal inverted repeats of transposons from soybean and rice. According to a characteristic amino acid signature, Vulmar1 can be assigned to the DD39D group of mariner transposons. Vulmar1 is flanked by a 5'-TA-3' target site duplication that is typical for mariner transposons. Southern hybridization revealed that mariner-like copies are highly abundant in Beta species, and sequence analysis of 10 transposase fragments from representative species of the four Beta sections revealed an identity between 34% and 100% after conceptual translation. By fluorescent in situ hybridization, Vulmar1 was detected in distal euchromatin as well as in some intercalary and pericentromeric regions of all B. vulgaris chromosomes. In addition, using PCR, we were able to amplify fragments of the transposase gene of En/Spm-like transposons in the genus Beta. En/Spm-like transposase sequences are highly amplified in four Beta sections and showed a considerable degree of conservation (88.5-100%) at the protein level, while the homology to corresponding regions of En/Spm transposons of other plant species ranges from 49.5% to 62.5%. By fluorescent in situ hybridization, En/Spm-like transposon signals of strong intensity were detected on all chromosomes of B. vulgaris.
15645304	A submergence-induced gene, OsGGT, was cloned from 7-day submerged rice (Oryza sativa L. plants, FR13A (a submergence-tolerant cultivar, Indica), using suppression subtractive hybridization and both 5'- and 3'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). The full-length OsGGT cDNA contains 1,273 bp with an open reading frame of 1,140 bp (17-1,156) that encodes 379 amino acids. Its deduced amino acid sequence is homologous with glycogenin glucosyltransferase. We found that the OsGGT gene is located in the 17,970-20,077 bp region of genome fragment AAAA01002475.1 of the Indica cultivar and in the 53,293-51,186 bp region of genome fragment AC037426.12 of chromosome 10 of the Japanica cultivar. A time-course study showed that OsGGT-gene expression increased in FR13A during submergence but decreased in IR42 (submergence-intolerant cultivar, Indica). The expression of the OsGGT gene in FR13A was induced by salicylic acid and benzyladenine. The accumulation of OsGGT mRNA in FR13A also increased in response to ethylene, gibberellin, abscisic acid, drought and salt treatment, but methyl jasmonate treatment and cold stress had no effect on expression. These results suggest that the OsGGT gene could be related to submergence stress and associated with a general defensive response to various environmental stresses.
15647298	Transcription start site selection and alternative splicing greatly contribute to diversifying gene expression. Recent studies have revealed the existence of alternative first exons, but most have involved mammalian genes, and as yet the regulation of usage of alternative first exons has not been clarified, especially in plants. We systematically identified putative alternative first exon transcripts in rice, verified the candidates using RT-PCR, and searched for the promoter elements that might regulate the alternative first exons. As a result, we detected a number of unreported alternative first exons, some of which are regulated in a tissue-specific manner. http://www.bioinfo.sfc.keio.ac.jp/research/intron.
15647315	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) has been used to study the long-term responses of photosynthesis to high irradiance focusing on the composition of the photosynthetic apparatus and leaf morphology. Typical sun/shade differences in chloroplast composition are seen in the fifth leaf following growth in high irradiance compared with low irradiance (1000 and 200 micromol m(-2) s(-1), respectively): higher light-saturated rates of photosynthesis (P(max)), higher amounts of Rubisco protein, and a lower chlorophyll a:b ratio. In addition, leaves were thicker under high light compared with low light. However, responses appear more complex when leaf developmental stage is considered. Using a system of transferring plants from low to high light in the laboratory responses that occur before and after full leaf extension have been studied. Acclimation of photosynthesis is limited by leaf age: the transfer to high light, post-leaf extension, is characterized by alterations in chlorophyll a:b but not in Rubisco protein, which may be limited by leaf morphology. Microarray analysis of gene expression was carried out on plants that were transferred to high light post-leaf extension. A down-regulation of light-harvesting genes was seen. No change in the expression level of Rubisco genes was observed. Up-regulation of genes involved in photoprotection was observed. It was also shown that high-light leaf morphology is established prior to formation of the zone of cellular elongation and division. The endogenous and environmental factors which establish the characteristics of high light acclimation may be important for attaining high rates of assimilation in leaves and crop canopies, and the fifth leaf in rice provides a convenient model system for the determination of the mechanisms involved.
15647349	Glucuronoarabinoxylan, xyloglucan, and galactomannan are noncellulosic polysaccharides found in plant cell walls. All consist of beta-linked glycan backbones substituted with sugar side chains. Although considerable progress has been made in characterizing the structure of these polysaccharides, little is known about the biosynthetic enzymes that produce them. Cellulose synthase-like (Csl) genes are hypothesized to encode Golgi-localized beta-glycan synthases that polymerize the backbones of noncellulosic polysaccharides. To investigate this hypothesis, we used heterologous expression in Drosophila Schneider 2 (S2) cells to systematically analyze the functions of the gene products of a group of Csl genes from Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa L.), including members from five Csl gene families (CslA, CslC, CslD, CslE, and CslH). Our analyses indicate that several members of the CslA gene family encode beta-mannan synthases. Recombinant CslA proteins produce beta-linked mannan polymers when supplied GDP-mannose. The same proteins can produce beta-linked glucomannan heteropolymers when supplied both GDP-mannose and GDP-glucose. One CslA protein also produced beta-linked glucan polymers when supplied GDP-glucose alone. Heterologous expression studies of additional candidate glycan synthases in insect cells or other systems may help identify other noncellulosic polysaccharide biosynthetic enzymes.
15647442
15647520	Hybridization between different species plays an important role in plant genome evolution, as well as is a widely used approach for crop improvement. McClintock has predicted that plant wide hybridization constitutes a "genomic shock" whereby cryptic transposable elements may be activated. However, direct experimental evidence showing a causal relationship between plant wide hybridization and transposon mobilization has not yet been reported. The miniature-Ping (mPing) is a recently isolated active miniature inverted-repeat transposable element transposon from rice, which is mobilized by tissue culture and gamma-ray irradiation. We show herein that mPing, together with its putative transposase-encoding partner, Pong, is mobilized in three homologous recombinant inbred lines (RILs), derived from hybridization between rice (cultivar Matsumae) and wild rice (Zizania latifolia Griseb.), harboring introgressed genomic DNA from wild rice. In contrast, both elements remain immobile in two lines sharing the same parentage to the RILs but possessing no introgressed DNA. Thus, we have presented direct evidence that is consistent with McClintock's insight by demonstrating a causal link between wide hybridization and transposon mobilization in rice. In addition, we report an atypical behavior of mPing/Pong mobilization in these lines, i.e., the exclusive absence of footprints after excision.
15647552	Bacterial reduction of the Se oxyanions selenate [Se(VI)] and selenite [Se(IV)] to elemental selenium [Se0] is an important biological process in removing Se from drainage water. This study was conducted to characterize the molecular diversity of bacterial populations involved in Se reduction of drainage water amended with rice (Oryza sativa L.) straw and also to monitor the bacterial community shifts during the course of the study. Selenate was removed in the drainage water by the bacteria 5 to 6 d after addition of rice straw. Six Se(VI)- and 32 Se(IV)-reducing bacteria were isolated from rice straw containing sterilized drainage water. Three Se(VI)- and two Se(IV)-reducing bacteria were also isolated from the drainage water. Identification of Se(VI)- and Se(IV)-reducing bacteria by 16S rDNA sequence analysis showed a broad phylogenetic diversity in Se-reducing assemblages. Three major phyla (Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, and Firmicutes) of bacterial domain with numerous classes, orders, and families constituted the Se-reducing bacterial community. We documented changes in the composition of bacterial assemblages in the drainage water amended with rice straw using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S rDNA. The Shannon-Weaver index (H') revealed higher bacterial diversity at Day 6 in the sterilized and Day 4 in the non-sterilized drainage water amended with rice straw. The results of this study suggest that rice straw, a good source of carbon and energy, harbors a wide range of bacteria useful in Se reduction and may be used in removing Se from drainage water.
15647921	To understand the types of gene action controlling seven quantitative traits in rice, we carried out quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping in order to distinguish between the main-effect QTLs (M-QTLs) and digenic epistatic QTLs (E-QTLs) responsible for the trait performance of 254 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from rice varieties Lemont/Teqing and two backcross hybrid (BCF1) populations derived from these RILs. We identified 44 M-QTL and 95 E-QTL pairs in the RI and BCF1 populations as having significant effects on the mean values and mid-parental heterosis of heading date, plant height, flag leaf length, flag leaf width, panicle length, spikelet number and spikelet fertility. The E-QTLs detected collectively explained a larger portion of the total phenotypic variation than the M-QTLs in both the RI and BCF1 populations. In both BCF1 populations, over-dominant (or under-dominant) loci were more important than additive and complete or partially dominant loci for M-QTLs and E-QTL pairs, thereby supporting prior findings that overdominance resulting from epistatic loci are the primary genetic basis of inbreeding depression and heterosis in rice.
15648977	Plant non-specific lipid transfer proteins (ns-LTPs) comprise two families, LTP1s and LTP2s, all structurally stabilized by four native disulfide bonds. Solution and crystal structures of both LTP1s and LTP2s from various plants have been determined. Despite the similarities of their biological function and backbone folds, the biophysical properties of LTP1s and LTP2s differ significantly. In this report, the mechanisms of unfolding and refolding of rice LTP1 and LTP2 have been investigated using the technique of disulfide bonds scrambling. LTP1 is shown to unfold and refold via predominant species of partially structured intermediates. Four isomers of partly unfolded and extensively unfolded LTP1 were identified, isolated and their disulfide structures were determined. By contrast, unfolding and refolding of LTP2 adopt a (close to) two-state mechanism, and undergo a reversible conversion between the native and a single extensively unfolded isomer without accumulation of any significant intermediate.
15650338	A cDNA library was constructed using mRNA extracted from rice leaves infected with Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), a bacterial leaf blight pathogen, to isolate rice genes induced by Xoo infection. Subtractive hybridization and differential screening of the cDNA library led to the isolation of many induced genes including a nucleotide diphosphate kinase 1 (OsNDPK1) and a pathogenesis-related protein 1 (OsPR1) cDNA. Nucleoside diphosphate kinases (NDPKs) are key metabolic enzymes that maintain the balance between cellular ATP and other nucleoside triphosphates (NTPs). Three other OsNDPK genes (NP922751, OsNDPK2 and OsNDPK3) found in databases were obtained by RT-PCR. Three different programs for predicting subcellular targeting indicated that OsNDPK1 and NP922751 were non-organellar, OsNDPK2 plastidic, and OsNDPK3 mitochondrial. Only transcripts of OsNDPK1 accumulated strongly after infection with Xoo. When rice plants were infected with Burkholderia glumae, a bacterial grain/seedling rot pathogen, the pattern of expression of the rice NDPK genes was similar to that following infection with Xoo. OsNDPK1 gene expression was also strongly induced in response to exposure to salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, and abscisic acid, although the level of transcripts and their pattern of expression depended on the inducer.
15650813	Simple sequence repeats (SSR) and their flanking regions in the mitochondrial and chloroplast genomes were sequenced in order to reveal DNA sequence variation. This information was used to gain new insights into phylogenetic relationships among species in the genus Oryza. Seven mitochondrial and five chloroplast SSR loci equal to or longer than ten mononucleotide repeats were chosen from known rice mitochondrial and chloroplast genome sequences. A total of 50 accessions of Oryza that represented six different diploid genomes and three different allopolyploid genomes of Oryza species were analyzed. Many base substitutions and deletions/insertions were identified in the SSR loci as well as their flanking regions. Of mononucleotide SSR, G (or C) repeats were more variable than A (or T) repeats. Results obtained by chloroplast and mitochondrial SSR analyses showed similar phylogenetic relationships among species, although chloroplast SSR were more informative because of their higher sequence diversity. The CC genome is suggested to be the maternal parent for the two BBCC genome species (O. punctata and O. minuta) and the CCDD species O. latifolia, based on the high level of sequence conservation between the diploid CC genome species and these allotetraploid species. This is the first report of phylogenetic analysis among plant species, based on mitochondrial and chloroplast SSR and their flanking sequences.
15650869	Poly(A)-binding proteins (PABPs) play an important role in the regulation of translation and the control of mRNA stability in eukaryotes, and their functions are known to be essential in many organisms. PABPs contain a highly conserved C-terminal segment termed the PABC domain. The PABC domain from human PABP interacts with the proteins PAIP1, PAIP2 and RF3 via its PAM2 motifs. These interactions are important for modulating translation. Arabidopsis has eight PABPs, an unexpectedly large number in comparison to other eukaryotes whose genomes have been sequenced. Six of the Arabidopsis PABPs contain the conserved PABC domain. In this work, we have identified PABC-interacting proteins in Arabidopsis. Two proteins, which we named CID1 and CID7, were initially isolated in a two-hybrid screen, and eleven more were predicted to be present in the Arabidopsis proteome and eleven in the rice proteome. Among the 24 PAM2-containing proteins in this set, we observed a diversity of modules of intriguing function, ranging from acidic regions similar to the PAM1 motif found in human PAIP1 and PAIP2, to domains such as the small MutS-related domain, the Lsm domains of Ataxin-2, and RNA recognition motifs (RRMs). We suggest that the large number of PABPs and PAM2-containing proteins may have evolved to provide plants with greater flexibility in modulating the metabolism of specific transcripts. We also found that two PABP genes, PAB2 (ubiquitously expressed) and PAB5 (expressed in reproductive tissues), are essential for viability, suggesting that each has a vital and specific function.
15651009	The extended DNA fiber preparation procedure is still imperfect in plants due to the existence of a hard cell wall; thus, high quality of extended DNA fibers for fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis is often difficult to be obtained rapidly and efficiently. In this study we have developed a fast and widely effective method to prepare DNA fibers from various plant species and the fibers are suitable for fiber FISH mapping. Fresh young leaves were chopped with a sharp sterile scalpel in a Petri dish that contained ice-cold nucleus isolation buffer followed by filtration through 33-mum nylon mesh. Nuclei were obtained by centrifuging the filtrates at high speed (16,000g) for 40 s. Nucleus lysis buffer (0.5% sodium dodecylsulfate, 5 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, 100 mM Tris, pH7.0) was added to nuclei on slides, and DNA fibers were dragged and extended with a clean coverslip. The key of this method is that liquid nitrogen grinding of leaves is replaced by chopping with a blade in ice-cold nucleus isolation buffer. With the liquid nitrogen method, over- or under-grinding of leaves occurs more frequently, and DNA fibers with the desired quality are not obtained easily. In contrast, it is easier to release nuclei from cells in nucleus isolation buffer by chopping, which results in fewer nuclei being destroyed. Highly extended, intact, and long DNA fibers can be generated to a great probability with this method. In addition, this method is very simple and rapid, requiring only 20 min for the entire process, and is also safe because poisonous mercaptoethanol is replaced by dithiothreitol. The results of fiber-FISH with maize genomic DNA and 45S rDNA as probes showed that DNA fiber size as long as 1.96 Mb could be measured. The successful and reliable preparation of maize, wild rice, and barley DNA fibers suitable for FISH mapping proves that this technique is a widely effective approach for obtaining extended DNA fibers in plants. A simple, rapid, safe, and widely effective method for getting extended DNA fibers has been developed in plants. (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
15651676	The rice grasshopper Oxya chinensis exhibits polymorphic loci at Ldh, Gpi, Pgm and Me. The data of the mean number of alleles per locus (A = 2.8), percentage of polymorphic loci (P = 80.0%), the observed mean heterozygosities (Ho = 0.271 approximately 0.279) and the expected mean heterozygosities (He = 0.305 approximately 0.316) of the species suggest that O. chinensis possesses sufficient genetic diversity. It was hypothesized that the high polymorphisms at Ldh, Gpi, Pgm and Me might make it possible for pesticide avermectin to act as a selective agent through differential lethality among the insect individuals with different genotypes. In this study a total of 855 grasshoppers were injected with avermectin (1.3 x 10(-2) g/g) to obtain a mortality of 54% after 24 hours. The allozyme analysis was then employed to determine the genotypes of Ldh, Gpi, Pgm and Me for both dead and surviving individuals. Contingency table chi2 tests showed that avermectin displayed random lethal effects on the genotypes at the loci of Ldh, Pgm and Me, without correlation between the genotype and mortality. In contrast, at Gpi locus, the grasshopper demonstrated a mortality cline of Gpi-AA (38%), Gpi-AB (51%), Gpi-BB (58%) and Gpi-BC (74%). The significant mortality differences were found among the following genotype pairs: Gpi-AA vs. Gpi-BB, Gpi-AA vs. Gpi-BC and Gpi-AB vs. Gpi-BC. These data implied the Gpi-AA genotype was likely related to the specie's resistance to the pesticide avermectin. It was also noted that the Gpi-A allele was present in the genotypes with low morality,while Gpi-B was present in the genotypes with moderate mortality, and the individuals with Gpi-C allele exhibited the highest mortality. The data obtained in this study suggested that the increasing proportion of Gpi-AA genotype and perhaps Gpi-A allele in a population may be useful as a potential resistant biomarker of O. chinensis to pesticide avermectin.
15651681	A set of chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs), derived from Asominori/IR24 with Asominori as the recurrent parent,was planted and phenotyped for grain length (GL), grain width (GW) and length-width ratio (LWR) of milled rice in two successive years and four sites. QTL for GL,GW and LWR were characterized and stability of their expression was investigated. The phenotypic values for each trait showed a continuous distribution and some transgressive lines were also observed in the CSSLs population. Additionally, a total of 13 QTL for GL, GW and LWR were identified,and six of them were consistently detected in the eight different environments. Phenotypic values were different significantly (P < 0. 001) between the CSSLs harboring any of the six QTL alleles and the genetic background parent, Asominori. Significant phenotypic correlations (r > or = 0.75, r0.05 = 0.67) were detected among different environments for these CSSLs carrying the same target QTL. Also, the results indicated that the six QTL, namely, qGL-3 for GL, qGW-5a and qGW-5b for GW, qLWR-3, qLWR-5a and qLWR-5b for LWR, were stably expressed in different environments. Since QTL qGL-3 and qLWR-3 were mapped in the R19-C1677 interval, qGW-5a and qLWR-5a in the vicinity of RFLP marker C263, qGW-5b and qLWR-5b near R569,the four RFLP markers, R19, C1677, C263 and R569,would be useful for further marker-assisted selection (MAS) in rice quality improvement.
15651682	PHD-finger (plant homeodomain finger), a unique Cys4-His-Cys3 pattern zinc-containing domain, is widely found in many transcriptional regulation proteins from plants or animals. This protein has many different family members distributing in plant or animal proteome,and plays key roles in the development. Here, we identified 44 different putative PHD-finger proteins in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome and performed a phylogenetic analysis with 45 Arabidopsis thaliana proteins. The analysis led to a classification of the 89 proteins into two major groups based on the number of PHD-fingers. Phylogentic analysis of these proteins indicated that there are common ancestors in both plant and human genomes, from which two or three PHD-finger containing proteins might duplicate.
15652334	Prevalence and intensity of infection of Schistosoma haematobium and Schistosoma mansoni were studied in relation to irrigated rice cultivation in Côte d'Ivoire. Urine and stool samples were collected from 4 to 15-year-old children in 24 villages in the savannah zone and 21 villages in the forest zone. Villages were classified according to surrounding inland valleys into three agro-ecosystems: (R2) full or partial water control allowing two rice cycles per year; (R1) no or partial water control allowing one harvest per year and (R0) absence of rice growing. In the savannah zone, S. haematobium prevalence was 4.8%, 2.3% and 0.7% and S. mansoni prevalence was 16.1%, 11.9% and 2.1% in R2, R1 and R0, respectively. In the forest zone, S. haematobium prevalence was 0.9%, 4.4% and 1.7% and S. mansoni prevalence was 61.3%, 46.6% and 17.5% in R2, in R1 and R0, respectively. Prevalences of S. mansoni adjusted for village effects were significantly different between agro-ecosystems in both zones. Significance of differences between agro-ecosystems of S. haematobium infection were strongly influenced by outlying villages. In savannah rice growing villages, negative binomial regression on infection intensity of each species showed significant positive relations to the surface of rice cultivated inland valleys, whereas uncultivated inland valleys showed no significant relation. However, in forest rice growing villages, S. mansoni infection intensity showed significant positive relations to the surface of uncultivated inland valleys, whereas surface water on rice cultivated land showed significant negative relations with infection intensity of each schistosomiasis species.
15653117	Reduction of cholesterol and inflammation can be achieved by administration of a statin. Xuezhikang, an extract of cholestin, available from Chinese red yeast rice, could effectively modify the lipid profile. However, limited information is available regarding rapid effects of Xuezhikang on plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) and the lipid profile in patients with stable angina. We evaluated the short-term time course effects of lipid profile and CRP by Xuezhikang in patients with stable angina. Forty-eight consecutive patients with stable angina were randomly assigned to 1200 or 2400 mg/day of Xuezhikang. Blood samples were drawn at days 0, 1, 7 and 14 for lipid profile and CRP levels in all patients, and hepatic enzymes were also evaluated at days 0 and 14. Both doses of Xuezhikang induced significant reductions in median CRP levels and in mean CRP levels at day 1 (13.0% with 1200 and 16.6% with 2400 mg/day; 14.7% with 1200 and 18.4% with 2400 mg/day), and at day 7 (18.3% with 1200 and 20.2% with 2400 mg/day; 18.5% with 1200 and 22.6% with 2400 mg/day) as well as at day 14 (28.6% with 1200 and 30.4% with 2400 mg/day; 21.7% with 1200 and 24.8% with 2400 mg/day) compared with baseline without a dose-dependent effect but a time-dependent manner. In addition, no changes were found at days 1 and 7 regarding lipid profile. However, both doses of Xuezhikang induced significant reductions in total cholesterol (TC, 13% and 22%), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (23% and 32%) compared with baseline at day 14. The higher dose of Xuezhikang (2400 mg/day) resulted in significantly greater reductions in TC and LDL cholesterol compared with 1200 mg/day group (p<0.05, p<0.01, respectively). A less significant reduction was observed in triglycerides (TG) level (13% and 23%) compared with TC and LDL cholesterol. There was no significant difference in mean high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels compared with baseline in both groups. Xuezhikang resulted in rapid reduction of CRP within 24 h and lipid profile within 2 weeks, which may be clinically important for patients with coronary artery disease.
15653186	Soil blocks from 18 paddy fields around three Korean nuclear power plant sites were put into lysimeters. Greenhouse experiments were carried out to investigate the (137)Cs transfer from these paddy soils to rice plants for its deposition at different growth stages. A solution of (137)Cs was applied to the flooded lysimeters at 2-3 different stages. The applied (137)Cs was mixed with the topsoil only at the pre-transplanting application. The transfer was quantified with a transfer factor based on the unit-area deposition (TF(a), m(2)kg(-1)-dry). The TF(a) in the pre-transplanting application showed a remarkable variation with the soils. However, the differences in the mean values among the study sites were not statistically significant. The straw TF(a) was 2-3 times higher than the corresponding seed value. The early-tillering stage and booting stage applications resulted in a higher transfer than the pre-transplanting application by factors of, on an average, 2 and 16 for the straws, and 3 and 25 for the hulled seeds, respectively. The (137)Cs transfer was found to correlate negatively with the soil pH and positively with the organic matter content. Based on the present results, the representative (137)Cs TF(a) values for the rice are proposed for use in the whole of Korea for the deposition at three different growth stages.
15653795	PII protein in bacteria is a sensor for 2-oxoglutarate and a transmitter for glutamine signaling. We identified an OsGlnB gene that encoded a bacterial PII-like protein in rice. Yeast two-hybrid analysis showed that an OsGlnB gene product interacted with N-acetylglutamate kinase 1 (OsNAGK1) and PII-like protein (OsGlnB) itself in rice. In cyanobacteria, NAGK is a key enzyme in arginine biosynthesis. Transient expression of OsGlnB cDNA or OsNAGK1 cDNA fused with sGFP in rice leaf blades strongly suggested that the PII-like protein as well as OsNAGK1 protein is located in chloroplasts. Both OsGlnB and OsNAGK1 genes were expressed in roots, leaf blades, leaf sheaths and spikelets of rice, and these two genes were coordinately expressed in leaf blades during the life span. Thus, PII-like protein in rice plants is potentially able to interact with OsNAGK1 protein in vivo. This finding will provide a clue to the precise physiological function of PII-like protein in rice.
15653800	Arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) are highly glycosylated extracellular glycoproteins playing important roles in plant growth and development. We have previously reported the possibility that AGPs are involved in the induction of alpha-amylase by gibberellin (GA) in barley aleurone layers by using the beta-glucosyl Yariv reagent (beta-GlcY), which has been presumed to specifically bind AGPs. In this present study, we isolated beta-GlcY-reactive proteins from rice bran rich in aleurone cells. The N-terminal sequences of classical AGP and AG peptides were determined from hydrophilic fractions obtained by reversed phase HPLC. Interestingly, a novel non-specific lipid transfer protein-like protein (OsLTPL1) and a novel early nodulin-like protein (OsENODL1) were also identified in the more hydrophobic fractions from HPLC as beta-GlcY-reactive proteins. Expression analysis of the genes coding for these proteins was performed. While classical AGP, AG peptides and OsLTPL1 were expressed in various parts of rice, OsENODL1 showed temporally and spatially specific expression in the aleurone layers. This new beta-GlcY-reactive protein is a promising candidate for the extracellular signaling factors of GA action in cereal seeds. Furthermore, the possibility that proteins with the AG glycomodule might react with beta-GlcY may broaden the definition of AGPs.
15653803	There is a cultivar difference in the response to ultraviolet-B (UVB: 280-320 nm) in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Among Japanese lowland rice cultivars, Sasanishiki, a leading Japanese rice cultivar, is resistant to the damaging effects of UVB while Norin 1, a close relative, is less resistant. We found previously that Norin 1 was deficient in cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) photorepair ability and suggested that the UVB sensitivity in rice depends largely on CPD photorepair ability. In order to verify that suggestion, we examined the correlation between UVB sensitivity and CPD photolyase activity in 17 rice cultivars of progenitors and relatives in breeding of UV-resistant Sasanishiki and UV-sensitive Norin 1. The amino acid at position 126 of the deduced amino acid sequence of CPD photolyase in cultivars including such as Norin 1 was found to be arginine, the CPD photolyase activities of which were lower. The amino acid at that position in cultivars including such as Sasanishiki was glutamine. Furthermore, cultivars more resistant to UVB were found to exhibit higher photolyase activities than less resistant cultivars. These results emphasize that single amino acid alteration from glutamine to arginine leads to a deficit of CPD photolyase activity and that CPD photolyase activity is one of the main factors determining UVB sensitivity in rice.
15653806	In rice plants grown under red light supplemented with blue light (red/blue-light PPFD ratio was 4/1), photosynthetic rates per unit leaf area measured under white light at 1,600 and 250 micromol m-2) s-1 were higher than those in the plants grown under red light alone. The higher photosynthetic rates were associated with higher total N content of leaves, which was accompanied by larger amounts of key components of photosynthesis-limiting processes, including Rubisco, Cyt f, Chl and LHCII. These results suggested that the increase in total N content of leaves induced by supplemental blue light enhanced both light-saturated and light-limited photosynthesis.
15653857	Gram-positive, rod-shaped, motile lactic acid bacteria (strains NRIC 0603, NRIC 0604T, NRIC 0605 and NRIC 0606) were isolated from shochu mashes using an enrichment culture approach. These strains clustered in the Lactobacillus casei-Pediococcus group and were closely related to Lactobacillus nagelii and Lactobacillus mali on the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity. Levels of DNA-DNA relatedness revealed genotypic separation of the four isolates from the above two species. The isolates are therefore considered to represent a novel species, for which the name Lactobacillus satsumensis is proposed. The type strain is NRIC 0604T (=JCM 12392T=DSM 16230T).
15653891	Pinus silvestris and Pinus halepensis trees grown in Germany and Spain, respectively, showing abnormal shoot branching, dwarfed needles and other symptoms were examined for the presence of plant-pathogenic mollicutes (phytoplasmas). While phytoplasmas could not be detected unambiguously with microscopical methods, PCR amplification using universal phytoplasma primers yielded positive results. Samples collected from symptomatic and non-symptomatic plant parts of both symptomatic Pinus silvestris and Pinus halepensis trees tested positive. Also, surrounding non-symptomatic trees proved to be phytoplasma-infected. Comparisons revealed that the 16S rRNA gene sequences of the phytoplasmas identified in Pinus silvestris and Pinus halepensis were nearly identical. However, the pine phytoplasma is only distantly related to other phytoplasmas. The closest relatives are members of the palm lethal yellowing and rice yellow dwarf groups and 'Candidatus Phytoplasma castaneae', which share between 94.5 and 96.6 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity. From these data it can be concluded that the phytoplasmas identified in the two Pinus species represent a coherent but discrete taxon; it is proposed that this taxon be distinguished at putative species level under the name 'Candidatus Phytoplasma pini'.
15654106	The population structure of domesticated species is influenced by the natural history of the populations of predomesticated ancestors, as well as by the breeding system and complexity of the breeding practices exercised by humans. Within Oryza sativa, there is an ancient and well-established divergence between the two major subspecies, indica and japonica, but finer levels of genetic structure are suggested by the breeding history. In this study, a sample of 234 accessions of rice was genotyped at 169 nuclear SSRs and two chloroplast loci. The data were analyzed to resolve the genetic structure and to interpret the evolutionary relationships between groups. Five distinct groups were detected, corresponding to indica, aus, aromatic, temperate japonica, and tropical japonica rices. Nuclear and chloroplast data support a closer evolutionary relationship between the indica and the aus and among the tropical japonica, temperate japonica, and aromatic groups. Group differences can be explained through contrasting demographic histories. With the availability of rice genome sequence, coupled with a large collection of publicly available genetic resources, it is of interest to develop a population-based framework for the molecular analysis of diversity in O. sativa.
15654107	Grass species differ in many aspects of inflorescence architecture, but in most cases the genetic basis of the morphological difference is unknown. To investigate the genes underlying the morphology in one such instance, we undertook a developmental and QTL analysis of inflorescence differences between the cereal grain foxtail millet and its presumed progenitor green millet. Inflorescence differences between these two species are the result of changes in primary branch number and density, spikelet number, and bristle (sterile branchlet) number; these differences also account for inflorescence variation within the clade of 300+ species that share the presence of bristles in the inflorescence. Fourteen replicated QTL were detected for the four inflorescence traits, and these are suggested to represent genes that control differences between the species. Comparative mapping using common markers from rice and maize allowed a number of candidate genes from maize to be localized to QTL regions in the millet genome. Searches of regions of the sequenced rice genome orthologous to QTL regions on foxtail millet identified a number of transcription factors and hormone pathway genes that may be involved in control of inflorescence branching.
15654611	The influence of sugars in pre-cultivation media suspended plant cells on the kinetics of the sugar uptake and the ethanol production was studied by mid-infrared spectroscopy using a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (FT-IR) equipped with an attenuate total reflection accessory (ATR). We performed the plant cell cultivation with Nicotiana tabacum cv. Bright Yellow No.2 (TBY-2) cells and Oryza sativa L., Japonica, cv. Nipponbare (rice) cells, respectively, in pre-culture and culture media, which had various types of glucose, fructose, sucrose or glucose-fructose mixtures. The results confirmed the kinetic differences between the TBY-2 cells and rice cells. These results suggested that the TBY-2 cells consumed sugar before growth and the rice cells consumed sugar after growth, moreover, the ethanol content increased just after cell growth was activated based on the non-dimensional cultivation time for the cell growth behavior.
15655104	High night temperatures are more harmful to grain weight in rice than high day temperatures. Grain growth rate and growth duration were investigated to determine which was the cause of the decrease in final grain weight under high night temperatures. Endosperm cell number and cell sizes were also examined to determine which might cause the decrease in final grain weight. Rice plants were grown outdoors in plastic pots and moved at heading time to three temperature-controlled glasshouses under high night temperature (HNT; 22/34 degrees C), high day temperature (HDT; 34/22 degrees C) and control conditions (CONT; 22/22 degrees C). Grains were sampled periodically, and the time-course of grain growth was divided into rate and duration by logistic regression analysis. Endosperm cell numbers and cell sizes were analysed by digitalized hand-tracing images of endosperm cross-sections. The duration of grain growth was reduced by high temperature both day and night. However, the rate of grain growth was lower in HNT than in HDT. The number of cells in endosperm cross-sections in HNT was similar to that in HDT, and higher than that in CONT. The average cell area was smaller in HNT than in either CONT or HDT. The differences in average cell areas between HNT and HDT were greater at distances 60-80 % from the central point of endosperm towards the endosperm surface. The results show that HNT compared with HDT reduced the final grain weight by a reduction in grain growth rate in the early or middle stages of grain filling, and also reduced cell size midway between the central point and the surface of endosperm.
15656646	Toward the development of reliable qualitative and quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) detection methods of transgenic tomatoes, one tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) species specific gene, LAT52, was selected and validated as suitable for using as an endogenous reference gene in transgenic tomato PCR detection. Both qualitative and quantitative PCR methods were assayed with 16 different tomato varieties, and identical amplified products or fluorescent signals were obtained with all of them. No amplified products and fluorescent signals were observed when DNA samples from 20 different plants such as soybean, maize, rapeseed, rice, and Arabidopsis thaliana were used as templates. These results demonstrated that the amplified LAT52 DNA sequence was specific for tomato. Furthermore, results of Southern blot showed that the LAT52 gene was a single-copy gene in the different tested tomato cultivars. In qualitative and quantitative PCR analysis, the detection sensitivities were 0.05 and 0.005 ng of tomato genomic DNA, respectively. In addition, two real-time assays employing this gene as an endogenous reference gene were established, one for the quantification of processed food samples derived from nontransgenic tomatoes that contained degraded target DNA and the other for the quantification of the junction region of CaMV35s promoter and the anti-sense ethylene-forming enzyme (EFE) gene in transgenic tomato Huafan No. 1 samples. All of these results indicated that the LAT52 gene could be successfully used as a tomato endogenous reference gene in practical qualitative and quantitative detection of transgenic tomatoes, even for some processed foods derived from transgenic and nontransgenic tomatoes.
15656983	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is sensitive to chilling particularly at early stages of seedling establishment. Two closely related genes (OsLti6a, OsLti6b), which are induced by low temperature during seedling emergence were isolated from a cold tolerant temperate japonica rice cultivar. These genes are closely related to the Arabidopsis rare cold-inducible (RCI2) and barley low-temperature-inducible (BLT101) genes. Based on direct biochemical and indirect physiological evidence and similarity with a conserved protein domain in the Cluster of Orthologous Groups (COG) database (e.g., yeast PMP3), the rice genes belong to a class of low-molecular-weight hydrophobic proteins involved in maintaining the integrity of the plasma membrane during cold, dehydration and salt stress conditions. Both genes exhibit a genotype-specific expression signature characterized by early and late stress-inducible expression in tolerant and intolerant genotypes, respectively. The differences in temporal expression profiles are consistent with cultivar differences in cold-induced membrane leakiness and seedling vigor. The presence of CRT/DRE promoter cis-elements is consistent with the synchronized expression of OsLti6 genes with the C-repeat binding factor/drought responsive element-binding protein (CBF/DREB) transcriptional activator. The present results indicate that the Oslti6 genes are part of a battery of cold stress defense-related genes regulated by a common switch.
15658805	The role of H2O2 in abscisic acid (ABA)-induced rice leaf senescence is investigated. ABA treatment resulted in H2O2 production in rice leaves, which preceded the occurrence of leaf senescence. Dimethylthiourea, a chemical trap for H2O2, was observed to be effective in inhibiting ABA-induced senescence, ABA-increased matondialdehyde (MDA) content, ABA-increased antioxidative enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase, ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione reductase and catalase), and ABA-decreased antioxidant contents (ascorbic acid and reduced glutathione) in rice leaves. Diphenyteneiodonium chloride (DPI) and imidazole (IMD), inhibitors of NADPH oxidase, and KCN and NaN3, inhibitors of peroxidase, prevented ABA-induced H2O2 production, suggesting NADPH oxidase and peroxidase are H2O2-generating enzymes in ABA-treated rice leaves. DPI, IMD, KCN, and NaN3 also inhibited ABA-promoted senescence, ABA-increased MDA contents, ABA-increased antioxidative enzyme activities, and ABA-decreased antioxidants in rice leaves. These results suggest that H2O2 is involved in ABA-induced senescence of rice leaves.
15659430	Recent advances in genomic studies and the sequenced genome information have made it possible to utilize phenotypic mutants for characterizing relevant genes at the molecular level and reveal their functions. Various mutants and strains expressing phenotypic and physiological variations provide an indispensable source for functional analysis of genes. In this review, we cover almost all of the rice mutants found to date and the variant strains that are important in developmental, physiological and agronomical studies. Mutants and genes showing defects in vegetative organs, i.e. leaf, culm and root, inflorescence reproductive organ and seeds with an embryo and endosperm are described with regards to their phenotypic and molecular characteristics. A variety of alleles detected by quantitative trait locus analysis, such as heading date, disease/insect resistance and stress tolerance, are also shown.
15659431	An enormous amount of information and materials in the field of biology has been accumulating, such as nucleotide and amino acid sequences, gene and protein functions, mutants and their phenotypes, and literature references, produced by the rapid development in this field. Effective use of the information may strongly promote biological studies, and may lead to many important findings. It is, however, time-consuming and laborious for individual researchers to collect information from individual original sites and to rearrange it for their own purpose. A concept, ontology, has been introduced in biology to support and encourage researchers to share and reuse information among biological databases. Ontology has a glossary, named dynamic controlled vocabulary, in which relationships between terms are defined. Since each term is strictly defined and identified with an ID number, a set of data represented in biological ontology is easily accessible to automated information processing, even if the data sets are across several databases and/or different organisms. In this mini-review, we introduce activities in Gramene and Oryzabase, which provide biological ontologies for Oryza sativa (rice).
15659432	Inflorescences and flowers in the grass species have characteristic structures that are distinct from those in eudicots. Owing to the availability of genetic tools and their genome sequences, rice and maize have become model plants for the grasses and for the monocots in general. Recent studies have provided much insight into the genetic control of inflorescence and flower development in grasses, especially in rice and maize. Progress in elucidating the developmental mechanisms in each of these plants may contribute greatly to our understanding of the evolution of development in higher plants.
15659433	The Rice Genome Research Program (RGP) in Japan has been collaborating with the international community in elucidating a complete high-quality sequence of the rice genome. As the pioneer in large-scale analysis of the rice genome, the RGP has successfully established the fundamental tools for genome research such as a genetic map, a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC)-based physical map, a transcript map and a phage P1 artificial chromosome (PAC)/bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) sequence-ready physical map, which serve as common resources for genome sequencing. Among the 12 rice chromosomes, the RGP is in charge of sequencing six chromosomes covering 52% of the 390 Mb total length of the genome. The contribution of the RGP to the realization of decoding the rice genome sequence with high accuracy and deciphering the genetic information in the genome will have a great impact in understanding the biology of the rice plant that provides a major food source for almost half of the world's population. A high-quality draft sequence (phase 2) was completed in December 2002. Since then, much of the finished quality sequence (phase 3) has become available in public databases. With the completion of sequencing in December 2004, it is expected that the genome sequence would facilitate innovative research in functional and applied genomics. A map-based genome sequence is indispensable for further improvement of current rice varieties and for development of novel varieties carrying agronomically important traits such as high yield potential and tolerance to both biotic and abiotic stresses. In addition to genome sequencing, various related projects have been initiated to generate valuable resources, which could serve as indispensable tools in clarifying the structure and function of the rice genome. These resources have been made available to the scientific community through the Rice Genome Resource Center (RGRC) of the National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences (NIAS) to enable rapid progress in research that will lead to thorough understanding of the rice plant. As the next trend in rice genome research will focus on determining the function of about 40,000-50,000 genes predicted in the genome as well as applying various genomics tools in rice breeding, an unlimited access to rice DNA and seed stocks will provide a broad community of scientists with the necessary materials for formulating new concepts, developing innovative research and making new scientific discoveries in rice genomics.
15659434	Now that sequencing of the rice genome is nearly completed, functional analysis of its large number of genes is the next challenge. Because rice is easy to transform, T-DNA has been used successfully to generate insertional mutant lines. Collectively, several laboratories throughout the world have established at least 200,000 T-DNA insertional lines. Some of those carry the GUS or GFP reporters for either gene or enhancer traps. Others are activation tagging lines for gain-of-function mutagenesis when T-DNA is inserted in the intergenic region. A forward genetic approach showed limited success because of somaclonal variations induced during tissue culture. To utilize these resources more efficiently, tagged lines have been produced for reverse genetics approaches. DNA pools of the T-DNA-tagged lines have been prepared for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) screening of insertional mutants in a given gene. Appropriate T-DNA insertion sites are determined by sequencing the region flanking the T-DNA. This information is then used to make databases that are shared with the scientific community. International efforts on seed amplification and maintenance are needed to exploit these valuable materials efficiently.
15659435	Rice is becoming a model plant in monocotyledons and a model cereal crop. For better understanding of the rice plant, it is essential to elucidate the developmental programs of the life cycle. To date, several attempts have been made in rice to categorize the developmental processes of some organs into substages. These studies are based exclusively on the morphological and anatomical viewpoints. Recent advancement in genetics and molecular biology has given us new aspects of developmental processes. In this review, we first describe the phasic development of the rice plant, and then describe in detail the developmental courses of major organs, leaf, root and spikelet, and specific organs/tissues. Also, for the facility of future studies, we propose a staging system for each organ.
15659436	In this study, we analyzed five tillering dwarf mutants that exhibit reduction of plant stature and an increase in tiller numbers. We show that, in the mutants, axillary meristems are normally established but the suppression of tiller bud activity is weakened. The phenotypes of tillering dwarf mutants suggest that they play roles in the control of tiller bud dormancy to suppress bud activity. However, tillering dwarf mutants show the dependence of both node position and planting density on their growth, which implies that the functions of tillering dwarf genes are independent of the developmental and environmental control of bud activity. Map-based cloning of the D3 gene revealed that it encodes an F-box leucine-trich repeat (LRR) protein orthologous to Arabidopsis MAX2/ORE9. This indicates the conservation of mechanisms controlling axillary bud activity between monocots and eudicots. We suggest that tillering dwarf mutants are suitable for the study of bud activity control in rice and believe that future molecular and genetic studies using them may enable significant progress in understanding the control of tillering and shoot branching.
15659439	We found novel vesicles derived from rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in rice endosperm. The novel vesicles had characteristic structures different from that of the ER-derived protein body type I and the Golgi-derived dense vesicles. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed that the novel vesicles are derived directly from the aggregates of vacuolar storage proteins in the rough ER. In addition, BiP, an ER-resident molecular chaperone, was localized in the novel vesicles, but also in protein storage vacuoles (PSVs). These results suggest that the novel vesicles mediate transport of vacuolar storage proteins directly from the ER to PSVs in rice endosperm.
15659452	The barley nucellin gene was reported to be nucellus specific in its expression and was hypothesized to play a role in the programmed cell death of the nucellus as an aspartic protease. Here we provide direct evidence that the rice ortholog encodes an active aspartic protease, but we prefer the name aspartic protease1 (OsAsp1) to nucellin after a detailed analysis of its expression pattern in rice and barley. Northern blots, RT-PCR and RNA in situ hybridization showed that OsAsp1 is expressed most abundantly in zygotic embryos 1-2 d after fertilization. It is also expressed in pollen, nucellus, ovary wall, shoot and root meristem, coleoptiles of immature seeds, and somatic embryos. A parallel study in barley showed that the barley nucellin gene was expressed not only in the nucellus but also strongly in embryos. Recombinant protein proOsAsp1 expressed in the bacterium Escherichia coli refolded and autolysed at acidic pH 3.5 in vitro, and the mature peptide displayed protease activity. Nucellin has three close homologs in rice on chromosomes 11 and 12 and in Arabidopsis on chromosomes 1 and 4. They lack the plant-specific insert that distinguishes the typical plant aspartic protease from aspartic proteases of other organisms. They constitute a new class of aspartic protease that is present in both monocots and dicots but whose function remains to be explored further.
15659629	Nuclear proteins play key roles in the fundamental regulation of genome instability, the phases of organ development, and physiological responsiveness through gene expression. Although nuclear proteins have been shown to account for approximately one-fourth of total proteins in yeast, no efficient method to identify novel nuclear proteins has been applied to plants. In this study, a trial to isolate nuclear proteins in rice was attempted, and several novel nuclear proteins showing a variety of subnuclear localizations were identified. The nuclear transportation trap (NTT) system, which is a modified two-hybrid system, isolated many nuclear proteins from rice (Oryza sativa) NTT cDNA libraries. Nuclear localization of the isolated proteins was confirmed by transient introduction of green fluorescent protein fusion constructs for a subset of protein genes into onion (Allium cepa) cells. The majority of these proteins, including novel proteins and proteins initially categorized as cytoplasmic proteins, were revealed to be localized in the nucleus. Detailed characterization of unknown proteins revealed various subnuclear localizations, indicating their possible association with chromatin and the nuclear matrix with a foci or speckle-like distribution. Some also showed dual distribution in the nucleus and cytoplasm. In the novel protein fraction, a protein was further identified for its chromatin-associated localization in a specific organ of rice by immunostaining. Thus, a variety of novel nuclear architectural proteins with chromatin or matrix associating abilities, which are important in nuclear organization by influencing certain organ developments or cell responsiveness, can be isolated using the NTT method. Because nuclear proteins other than transcription regulators have rarely been characterized in plants, such as matrix proteins and development-specific chromatin proteins, their identification and subsequent characterization could provide important information for genome-wide regulatory mechanisms controlled by nuclear organization.
15659632	To study genome evolution and diversity in barley (Hordeum vulgare), we have sequenced and compared more than 300 kb of sequence spanning the Rph7 leaf rust disease resistance gene in two barley cultivars. Colinearity was restricted to five genic and two intergenic regions representing <35% of the two sequences. In each interval separating the seven conserved regions, the number and type of repetitive elements were completely different between the two homologous sequences, and a single gene was absent in one cultivar. In both cultivars, the nonconserved regions consisted of approximately 53% repetitive sequences mainly represented by long-terminal repeat retrotransposons that have inserted <1 million years ago. PCR-based analysis of intergenic regions at the Rph7 locus and at three other independent loci in 41 H. vulgare lines indicated large haplotype variability in the cultivated barley gene pool. Together, our data indicate rapid and recent divergence at homologous loci in the genome of H. vulgare, possibly providing the molecular mechanism for the generation of high diversity in the barley gene pool. Finally, comparative analysis of the gene composition in barley, wheat (Triticum aestivum), rice (Oryza sativa), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) suggested massive gene movements at the Rph7 locus in the Triticeae lineage.
15659640	Allelic chromosomal regions totaling more than 2.8 Mb and located on maize (Zea mays) chromosomes 1L, 2S, 7L, and 9S have been sequenced and compared over distances of 100 to 350 kb between the two maize inbred lines Mo17 and B73. The alleles contain extended regions of nonhomology. On average, more than 50% of the compared sequence is noncolinear, mainly because of the insertion of large numbers of long terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposons. Only 27 LTR-retroelements are shared between alleles, whereas 62 are allele specific. The insertion of LTR-retrotransposons into the maize genome is statistically more recent for nonshared than shared ones. Most surprisingly, more than one-third of the genes (27/72) are absent in one of the inbreds at the loci examined. Such nonshared genes usually appear to be truncated and form clusters in which they are oriented in the same direction. However, the nonshared genome segments are gene-poor, relative to regions shared by both inbreds, with up to 12-fold difference in gene density. By contrast, miniature inverted terminal repeats (MITEs) occur at a similar frequency in the shared and nonshared fractions. Many times, MITES are present in an identical position in both LTRs of a retroelement, indicating that their insertion occurred before the replication of the retroelement in question. Maize ESTs and/or maize massively parallel signature sequencing tags were identified for the majority of the nonshared genes or homologs of them. In contrast with shared genes, which are usually conserved in gene order and location relative to rice (Oryza sativa), nonshared genes violate the maize colinearity with rice. Based on this, insertion by a yet unknown mechanism, rather than deletion events, seems to be the origin of the nonshared genes. The intergenic space between conserved genes is enlarged up to sixfold in maize compared with rice. Frequently, retroelement insertions create a different sequence environment adjacent to conserved genes.
15659850	The SET domain, first identified within and named after proteins encoded by three Drosophila genes [Su(var)3-9, E(z), and Trithorax], is recognized as a signature motif for histone methyltransferases that are involved in epigenetic processes. The SUV39H family of SET domain proteins methylate specifically the residue lysine 9 of histone H3, creating a code for gene silencing. This family of proteins contain at their C termini a unique catalytic domain consisting of pre-SET, SET, and post-SET domains. Sequence homology-based searches identified 15 Arabidopsis, 14 maize, and 12 rice proteins that can be assigned to the SUV39H family. These high numbers in plants are in marked contrast to the situation in animals, in which each species appears to contain only two to three proteins of this family. Our phylogenetic analyses revealed that plant proteins can be classified into seven orthology groups. Representative members of each group can be found in single plant species, suggesting that different group members are evolutionarily conserved to perform specific functions.
15660154	Sorghum bicolor is a close relative of maize and is a staple crop in Africa and much of the developing world because of its superior tolerance of arid growth conditions. We have generated sequence from the hypomethylated portion of the sorghum genome by applying methylation filtration (MF) technology. The evidence suggests that 96% of the genes have been sequence tagged, with an average coverage of 65% across their length. Remarkably, this level of gene discovery was accomplished after generating a raw coverage of less than 300 megabases of the 735-megabase genome. MF preferentially captures exons and introns, promoters, microRNAs, and simple sequence repeats, and minimizes interspersed repeats, thus providing a robust view of the functional parts of the genome. The sorghum MF sequence set is beneficial to research on sorghum and is also a powerful resource for comparative genomics among the grasses and across the entire plant kingdom. Thousands of hypothetical gene predictions in rice and Arabidopsis are supported by the sorghum dataset, and genomic similarities highlight evolutionarily conserved regions that will lead to a better understanding of rice and Arabidopsis.
15660239	Nuclear matrix attachment regions (MARs) are thought to influence the expression of the flanking genes. TM2, a new DNA fragment isolated from tobacco, can bind with the rice nuclear matrix in vitro. In this study, we investigated the effect of TM2 on transgene expression under the control of three different promoters in stably transformed rice calli and plants. The presence of TM2 flanking the transgene increased the expression of constructs based on the constitutive CaMV 35S and maize ubiquitin gene promoters in both resistant calli and transformed plants. The GUS expression directed by the photosynthetic-tissue-specific PNZIP promoter was also increased in photosynthetic tissues of transformants. However, TM2 did not change the gene expression pattern controlled by the PNZIP promoter. The effect of TM2 in transgenic plants was stronger than that in transgenic calli based on all three promoters. Our results indicate that TM2, as a novel strong MAR, can be used to increase the transgene expression levels in the whole plant or in particular tissues of monocotyledons.
15660355	Recent progress in the development of protoporphyrinogen oxidase (PPO, Protox) inhibitor-resistant plant cell cultures and crops is reviewed, with emphasis on the molecular and cellular aspects of this topic. PPO herbicide-resistant maize plants have been reported, along with the isolation of plant PPO genes and the isolation of herbicide-resistant mutants. At the same time, PPO inhibitor-resistant rice plants have been developed by expression of the Bacillus subtilis PPO gene via targeting the gene into either chloroplast or cytoplasm. Other attempts to develop PPO herbicide-resistant plants include conventional tissue culture methods, expression of modified co-factors of the protoporphyrin IX binding subunit proteins, over-expression of wild-type plant PPO gene, and engineering of P-450 monooxygenases to degrade the PPO inhibitor.
15660356	Transgenic potato and rice plants were generated by the introduction of human P450 species, CYP1A1, CYP2B6, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19, which metabolized a number of herbicides, insecticides and industrial chemicals. The transgenic potato plant T1977 co-expressing CYP1A1, CYP2B6 and CYP2C19 genes showed remarkable cross-resistance to several herbicides with different structures and modes of action due to metabolism of these herbicides by the P450 species expressed. The transgenic rice plant 2C9-57R2 expressing CYP2C9 gene showed resistance to sulfonylureas, and the transgenic rice plant 2C19-12R1 expressing CYP2C19 gene showed cross-resistance to certain herbicides with different structures and modes of action. These transgenic plants appear to be useful for herbicide resistance as well as phytoremediation of environmental contaminants.
15660973	Genetic main effects and genotype x environment (GE) interaction effects for 7 non-essential amino acids in milled rice were analyzed for two year data by using the genetic models based on mixed linear model approaches for quantitative traits of triploid endosperm. Nine cytoplasmic, male sterile lines as females and five restoring lines as males were introduced in a diallel cross in two environments. It was found that the content of non-essential amino acids including Asp, Ser, Glu, Gly and Tyr were mainly controlled by genetic main effects, whereas the content of Ala or Pro was mainly affected by GE effects. In genetic main effects, the cytoplasmic and maternal genetic effects were preponderant for all traits of non-essential amino acids, indicating that selection for improving these traits based on the maternal plant would be more effective than on seeds. The total narrow-sense heritabilities for non-essential amino acids were 70.9-85.9%. By predicating the genetic effects of parents, the total genetic effects from Xieqingzao, V20, Zuo 5 and Zhenshan 97 were mainly negative and these parents would decrease the content of most essential amino acids. Since parents of Zhenan 3, Yinchao 1, T49, 26715, 102 and 1391 had possessed a positive value of most total genetic effects, these parents could be chosen as optimal parents for increasing the content of most non-essential amino acids.
15661002	Bacteriophage Xp10 infects rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae. Xp10 encodes its own single-subunit RNA polymerase (RNAP), similar to that found in phages of the T7 family. On the other hand, most of Xp10 genes are organized in a manner typical of lambdoid phages that are known to rely only on host RNAP for their development. To better understand the temporal pattern of viral transcription during Xp10 development, we performed global transcription profiling, primer extension, chemical kinetic modelling and bioinformatic analyses of Xp10 gene expression. Our results indicate that true to its mosaic nature, Xp10 relies on both host and viral RNAPs for expression of genes coding for virion components and host lysis. The joint transcription of the same set of genes by two types of RNA polymerases is unprecedented for a bacteriophage. Curiously, such a situation is realized in chloroplasts.
15662718	Seedlings of rice, early watergrass (thiobencarb-resistant and thiobencarb-susceptible biotypes, R and S, respectively), and late watergrass (thiobencarb-resistant and thiobencarb-susceptible biotypes, R and S, respectively) were hydroponically exposed to clomazone at concentrations ranging from 0.08 to 7.9 microM. Whole-plant growth (mg fresh wt) and beta-carotene concentrations (microg g(-1) fresh wt) were measured after a 7-day exposure period. For growth, the no observed effect concentrations (NOECs) were 7.9, 0.21, 0.21, 0.46 and 0.46 microM clomazone for rice, early watergrass (R), early watergrass (S), late watergrass (R) and late watergrass (S), respectively, while the concentrations causing 25% inhibition in response (IC25) were 5.6 (+/-1.6), 0.46 (+/-0.06), 0.42 (+/-0.08), 0.92 (+/-0.45) and 0.79 (+/-0.08) microM clomazone, respectively. Clomazone inhibits beta-carotene synthesis via inhibition of the non-mevalonate isoprenoid synthetic pathway. For assessment of clomazone effects, beta-carotene levels proved to be a more sensitive toxicological endpoint than growth. For rice, early watergrass (R), early watergrass (S), late watergrass (R) and late watergrass (S), the beta-carotene NOECs were 0.21, <0.08, <0.08, 0.08 and 0.46 microM clomazone respectively, while IC25 values were 0.42 (+/-0.26), 0.08 (+/-0.02), 0.08 (+/-0.02), 0.33 (+/-0.09) and 0.54 (+/-0.15) microM, respectively. No evidence was found that the thiobencarb-resistance mechanisms present in early and late watergrasses impart resistance to clomazone. Due to similar sensitivity between rice and late watergrass, use of clomazone in rice culture will require the use of a safening technique.
15663005	This study investigates the influence of exogenously applied abscisic acid (ABA) on the leaves and leaf sheaths of two-week-old rice seedling at the level of the proteome. Significant differences were observed in the two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis protein profiles between control and ABA treated samples. Amino-acid sequence analysis of affected proteins revealed that ABA caused drastic changes in the major photosynthetic protein, ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase and accumulation of certain defense/stress-related proteins. Moreover, cutting or treating leaf sheaths with jasmonic acid (JA) rapidly increased the endogenous level of ABA, suggesting a role for ABA during the defense/stress-response. Comparative study indicated a potential overlap between ABA and JA as detected at the level of the proteome. Furthermore, in vitro protein phosphorylation experiments and in-gel kinase assays also revealed considerable changes in the phosphorylation status of some proteins, and differential effects on myelin basic protein and calcium-dependent protein kinase activities by ABA treatment, which suggests involvement of kinase in the downstream signaling cascade. These results provide evidence at proteome level for the involvement of ABA in stress-response in rice seedling.
15663008	Phosphoribulokinase (PRKase, EC 2.7.1.19) plays an important role in regulating the flow of sugar through the Calvin cycle. To investigate its regulatory character and expression pattern, the gene encoding PRKase in rice was cloned by RACE. A full-length cDNA with an open reading frame of 1212 bp encoding 403 amino acids residues was obtained from an indica rice variety, 9311. The OsPrk is a single locus gene in the rice genome. It is localized in the region of 28.32 approximately 28.33 Mb on the Chromosome 2, flanked by the genetic markers RM450 and MRG0168. RT-PCR analysis revealed that OsPrk gene was expressed in all the tissues we tested and OsPrk transcript level could be dramatically boosted by light illumination. Its expression was down-regulated by externally applied NaCl, ABA, MeJA and glucose over 24 hr, whereas it was up-regulated by GA after 24 hr treatments. These results also indicated that OsPrk gene expression is modulated by these factors at multiple levels.
15663849	We describe the genetic analysis of samples from hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) patients from southern and southeastern states of Brazil and rodents captured at the presumed site of infection of these patients. A total of 65 samples that were antibody-positive for Sin Nombre or Laguna Negra virus by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were processed by nested reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) by using several primer combinations in the M and S genome segments. PCR products were amplified and sequenced from samples from 11 HPS patient and 7 rodent samples. Phylogenetic analysis of nucleotide sequence differences showed the cocirculation of Araraquara and Juquitiba-like viruses, previously characterized from humans. Our genetic data indicate that Araraquara virus is associated with Bolomys lasiurus (hairy-tailed Bolo mouse) and the Juquitiba-like virus is associated with Oligoryzomys nigripes (black-footed pigmy rice rat).
15664082	A single-cell manipulation supporting robot (SMSR) has been developed for the high throughput and easy microinjection. Its concept is to let an experimenter concentrate his/her attention only on the microinjection by facilitating other associated works. SMSR was applied to the microinjection into rice protoplasts and mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. The microinjection into these cells is exceptionally difficult than usual animal cells such as fibroblasts. In the case of rice protoplast, for example, non-stop microinjection into 100 cells could be done within 1h that was 17-times faster than that of the robot-less work. The success rate was 7-8% that was same level obtained by the robot-less work. The present results indicate that SMSR is a useful machine for the microinjection of specific genes and proteins in living cells to analyze their respective functions, which is an urgent and important subject in the post-genome era.
15664569	Musculoskeletal infections are commonly encountered in clinical practice. This review will discuss the ultrasound appearances of a variety of musculoskeletal infections such as cellulitis, infective tenosynovitis, pyomyositis, soft-tissue abscesses, septic arthritis, acute and chronic osteomyelitis, and post-operative infection. The peculiar sonographic features of less common musculoskeletal infections, such as necrotizing fasciitis, and rice body formation in atypical mycobacterial tenosynovitis, and bursitis will also be presented.
15665461	We compared the effects of non-gelatinized rice and corn starches on the life-span of ICR mice. Six groups of male ICR mice consisting of 30 animals each were maintained on purified experimental diets containing either corn or rice starch and different amounts of soybean oil (6, 12 or 24%) throughout their life-time. Plots of the survival rates of the mice indicate that rice compared to corn starch conferred a longer life-span to ICR mice, although a significant difference due to the starch type was only observed in the mice fed on the 24% fat diet (p=0.012). A divergent effect of rice and corn starches on the survival rate was apparent when observations were combined with respect to the starch type regardless of the dietary fat level (p=0.005). In addition, two-way ANOVA data indicate that the mean survival time was longer for the mice given rice starch (593-645 days) than for those fed corn starch (538-580 days) (p=0.011). However, no significant difference in these parameters due to dietary fat levels was observed. The results of our study indicate that starch type is one of the determinants of longevity in mice.
15665476	When supplemented to the culture medium of mushroom Coprinus cinereus, rice husks soaked beforehand in methanol stimulated mycelia growth up to a concentration of 80 mg/ml dose-dependently, whereas the non-treated stimulated mycelia growth up to 20 mg/ml. This result suggests the existence of both stimulatory and inhibitory substances in rice husks. Since momilactone A (MLA) is recognized as one of the phytoalexins in rice husks, its biological activity against mycelia growth was tested. Momilactone A inhibited mycelia growth at 5 microg/disc, whereas the methanol extract of husks did so at 1 mg/disc, wherein 0.2 microg of MLA was estimated by LC/MS/MS. Thus the phytoalexins including MLA should inhibit mycelia growth. Rice husks stimulated mycelia growth in some edible mushroom species such as Grifola frondosa (maitake), Lentinus edodes (shiitake), Pleurotus eryngii (eringi), and P. ostreatus (hiratake). Our findings might lead to the development of new profitable cultivation methods for mushrooms using rice husks.
15666165	AtFPF1 (FLOWERING PROMOTING FACTOR 1) is a gene that promotes flowering in Arabidopsis. An expression vector containing AtFPF1 driven by a Ubi-1 promoter was constructed. The gene was introduced into rice callus by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and fertile plants were obtained. The presence of AtFPF1 in rice plants was confirmed by PCR, Southern and Northern blot analyses, as well as by beta-glucuronidase assay. The results showed that, as in Arabidopsis, AtFPF1 reduced flowering time in rice. Furthermore, introduction of AtFPF1 enhanced adventitious root formation but inhibited root growth in rice during the seedling stage. The results suggest that AtFPF1 promotes flowering time in both dicots and monocots, and plays a role in the initiation of adventitious roots in rice.
15666317	Using continuous-flow isotope ratio mass spectrometry, we have developed a new analytical system which enables us to determine the stable carbon isotopic composition of CH3Cl, CH3Br, and C2-C5 saturated hydrocarbons in gas samples even if they contain substantial amounts of unsaturated hydrocarbons, using an I2O5 reagent for their selective subtraction. The analytical precision of the delta13C determinations is better than 0.5 per thousand for >300 pmolC injections and better than 5 per thousand for 20 pmolC injections. Using the system, delta13C values for CH3Cl and CH3Br were found in burning exhaust that contain a substantial quantity of unsaturated hydrocarbons. CH3Cl and CH3Br measured in exhaust from burning rice plants exhibit highly 13C-depleted values of -56.6 +/- 1.3 per thousand and -48.6 +/- 3.9 per thousand, respectively, while saturated hydrocarbons exhibit delta13C values (-26.4 to -28.9 per thousand) that are comparable with the total delta13C value of the parent material (rice plant; -28.0 per thousand). Using the system, we can determine the delta13C values of methyl halides and hydrocarbons in many kinds of gas samples.
15666745	The effect of Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Homoptera: Delphacidae), infestation on the content of zeatin ribosides (ZR) in rice plants was investigated with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Hydroponics experiments were conducted on 'Zhendao 2' rice, in which plants were subjected to N. lugens infestation at three nonhopperburn-causing densities (15, 30, and 60 nymphs per hill) for 2, 4, 6, and 8 d and at one hopperburn-causing density (240 nymphs per hill) for 2, 4, and 6 d, respectively. When rice plants were infested at the nonhopperburn-causing densities, ZR content in leaves varied significantly with the infestation density. Compared with the control plants, ZR content in rice leaves decreased significantly after infestation by 60 nymphs per hill for 2 d, but it tended to increase due to prolonged infestation at all the nonhopperburn-causing densities. In contrast, ZR content in rice roots significantly reduced after the plants being infested at the density of 15 nymphs for 2 d and at all densities for prolonged duration, except for the plants infested by 60 nymphs for 6 and 8 d, in which the ZR content increased or did not change significantly. However, infestation at the hopperburn-causing density caused significant reduction in ZR content in rice roots, regardless of infestation duration, and in rice leaves from the plants subjected to 2-d infestation. These results are discussed in relation to the possible physiological reaction of rice plants to N. lugens infestation and the resultant severe damage or hopperburn.
15666746	The effect of Leptocorisa oratorius (F.) on the yield, grain quality, and seed viability of four rice, Oryza sativa L., lines was studied. Three of the lines, C2, IR64, and PSBRc20, are grown in the Philippines. The fourth, IR72164-201-1 is an unreleased experimental line of an O. sativa japonica x O. sativa indica cross. Each line was exposed to four infestation densities for 21 d. L. oratorius feeding produced unfilled and partially filled grains, resulting in a negative correlation of yield to rice bug density. When filled grains were sown, germination rates were negatively correlated with rice bug densities. The percentage of discolored grains was positively correlated with L. oratorius density on all rice lines. At the same infestation rates, PSBRc20 and IR64 had higher yields, less damaged grain, and higher germination rates than IR72164-201-1 and C2, suggesting host plant tolerance to rice bug feeding. The economic injury levels (EILs) currently used for rice bug management are based solely on yield loss estimates. The results of this study suggest that EIL for rice bugs should be revised to take into account reductions in grain quality and seed germination rates in addition to yield loss.
15666748	The impact of a herbicide-tolerant rice, Oryza sativa L., variety was assessed for its resistance to rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), and its place in current integrated pest management (IPM) programs. Greenhouse experiments were conducted to evaluate the resistance of a glufosinate-tolerant rice variety and its glufosinate-susceptible parent line Bengal to the rice water weevil in the presence and absence of glufosinate applications. The LC50 dose-response and behavioral effects of glufosinate on adult rice water weevils also were studied. Field studies investigated the impacts of glufosinate-tolerant rice on rice water weevil management in the presence and absence of glufosinate under early and delayed flood conditions. Greenhouse studies demonstrated that in the absence of glufosinate, oviposition was 30% higher on the glufosinate-tolerant rice line than on Bengal rice or on glufosinate-tolerant line treated with recommended rates of commercially formulated glufosinate. Applications of glufosinate to glufosinate-tolerant rice resulted in a 20% reduction in rice water weevil larval densities compared with nontreated glufosinate-tolerant rice. The LC50 of glufosinate against adult rice water weevil was nearly 2 times the concentration recommended for application to glufosinate-tolerant rice. There was no difference in the amount of leaf area consumed by adult rice water weevils on glufosinate-treated and nontreated foliage. The absence of direct toxicity of glufosinate to rice water weevil at recommended glufosinate use rates and lack of behavioral effects suggest that the reduction in rice water weevil densities observed after glufosinate applications resulted from herbicide-induced plant resistance. Field experiments showed that neither rice variety nor herbicide use affected larval densities; however, delaying flood and applying insecticide effectively reduced numbers of rice water weevil larvae.
15667666	Mosquitoes sampling is an important component in malaria control. However, most of the methods used have several shortcomings and hence there is a need to develop and calibrate new methods. The Mbita trap for capturing host-seeking mosquitoes was recently developed and successfully tested in Kenya. However, the Mbita trap is less effective at catching outdoor-biting Anopheles funestus and Anopheles arabiensis in Madagascar and, thus, there is need to further evaluate this trap in diverse epidemiological settings. This study reports a field evaluation of the Mbita trap in a rice irrigation scheme in Kenya The mosquito sampling efficiency of the Mbita trap was compared to that of the CDC light trap and the human landing catch in western Kenya. Data was analysed by Bayesian regression of linear and non-linear models. The Mbita trap caught about 17%, 60%, and 20% of the number of An. arabiensis, An. funestus, and culicine species caught in the human landing collections respectively. There was consistency in sampling proportionality between the Mbita trap and the human landing catch for both An. arabiensis and the culicine species. For An. funestus, the Mbita trap portrayed some density-dependent sampling efficiency that suggested lowered sampling efficiency of human landing catch at low densities. The CDC light trap caught about 60%, 120%, and 552% of the number of An. arabiensis, An. funestus, and culicine species caught in the human landing collections respectively. There was consistency in the sampling proportionality between the CDC light trap and the human landing catch for both An. arabiensis and An. funestus, whereas for the culicines, there was no simple relationship between the two methods. The Mbita trap is less sensitive than either the human landing catch or the CDC light trap. However, for a given investment of time and money, it is likely to catch more mosquitoes over a longer (and hence more representative) period. This trap can therefore be recommended for use by community members for passive mosquito surveillance. Nonetheless, there is still a need to develop new sampling methods for some epidemiological settings. The human landing catch should be maintained as the standard reference method for use in calibrating new methods for sampling the human biting population of mosquitoes.
15667839	A pot experiment was conducted to appraise the hazards of bound residues of metsulfuron-methyl in soil at six levels (0, 0.050, 0.089, 0.158, 0.281, and 0.500 mg kg(-1)) to the growth of four rice varieties (Xiushui 63, Eryou 810, Liangyoupeijiu, and Zhenong 952). The morphological characteristics of rice roots like root number, total length, surface area of rice roots, and rice biomass were determined. The results showed that the bound residues of metsulfuron-methyl in soil impacted the growth of rice. Root number, total length of roots, surface area of roots, and biomass were restrained by bound residues of metsulfuron-methyl in soil. The inhibition rate of root growth increased from 69.46-81.32% to 85.18-95.97% with the increasing of levels of bound residues of metsulfuron-methyl from 0.05 mg kg(-1) to 0.50 mg kg(-1). The number of rice roots could be taken as a sensitive index to screen the rice varieties endurable to bound residues of metsulfuron-methyl in soil and to predict the potential hazards of bound residues of metsulfuron-methyl in soil to rice. The level of bound residues of metsulfuron-methyl in soil causing the root numbers decreased by 50% (IC50) followed the order of Xiushui 63 < Eryou 810 < Liangyoupeijiu < Zhenong 952.
15668196	Reducing the use of non-renewable fossil energy reserves together with improving the environment are two important reasons that drive interest in the use of bioethanol as an automotive fuel. Conversion of sugar and starch to ethanol has been proven at an industrial scale in Brazil and the United States, respectively, and this alcohol has been able to compete with conventional gasoline due to various incentives. In this paper, we examined making ethanol from the sugar extracted from the juice of sweet sorghum and/or from the hemicellulose and cellulose in the residual sorghum bagasse versus selling the sugar from the juice or burning the bagasse to make electricity in four scenarios in the context of North China. In general terms, the production of ethanol from the hemicellulose and cellulose in bagasse was more favorable than burning it to make power, but the relative merits of making ethanol or sugar from the juice was very sensitive to the price of sugar in China. This result was confirmed by both process economics and analysis of opportunity costs. Thus, a flexible plant capable of making both sugar and fuel-ethanol from the juice is recommended. Overall, ethanol production from sorghum bagasse appears very favorable, but other agricultural residues such as corn stover and rice hulls would likely provide a more attractive feedstock for making ethanol in the medium and long term due to their extensive availability in North China and their independence from other markets. Furthermore, the process for residue conversion was based on particular design assumptions, and other technologies could enhance competitiveness while considerations such as perceived risk could impede applications.
15668206	Glucosylceramides were surveyed in crop tissues and by-products from their processing. Apple pulp contained the highest amount (0.94 mg g(-1)) of glucosylceramide and relatively less sterylglucoside, which is the major contaminant of partially purified glucosylceramide. Glucosylceramide from apple pulp was principally composed of 2-hydroxypalmitic acid as the fatty acid, 4-hydroxy-cis-8-sphingenine as the sphingoid base, and glucose as the hexose, similar to those of commercial preparations isolated from rice bran or wheat germ. Apple pulp may be an alternative source for the commercial production of glucosylceramides.
15668792	We have isolated a severe dwarf transposon (Ds) insertion mutant in rice (Oryza sativa L.), which could be differentiated early in the seedling stage by reduced shoot growth and dark green leaves, and later by severe dwarfism and failure to initiate flowering. These mutants, however, showed normal seed germination and root growth. One of the sequences flanking Ds, rescued from the mutant, was of a chromosome 4-located putative ent-kaurene synthase (KS) gene, encoding the enzyme catalyzing the second step of the gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis pathway. Dwarf mutants were always homozygous for this Ds insertion and no normal plants homozygous for this mutation were recovered in the segregating progeny, indicating that the Ds insertion mutation is recessive. As mutations in three recently reported rice GA-responsive dwarf mutant alleles and the dwarf mutation identified in this study mapped to the same locus, we designate the corresponding gene OsKS1. The osks1 mutant seedlings were responsive to exogenous gibberellin (GA3). OsKS1 transcripts of about 2.3 kb were detected in leaves and stem of wild-type plants, but not in germinating seeds or roots, suggesting that OsKS1 is not involved in germination or root growth. There are at least five OsKS1-like genes in the rice genome, four of which are also represented in rice expressed sequence tag (EST) databases. All OsKS1-like genes are transcribed with different expression patterns. ESTs corresponding to all six OsKS genes are represented in other cereal databases including barley, wheat and maize, suggesting that they are biologically active.
15669487	In this paper, three bioassay methods, i.e., relay seeding in agar (RSA), relay seeding in silica (RSS) and seeding in rice root-exudation (SRE), were used to test the allelopathic potential of 8 rice cultivars on the target weed barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crusgalli). The results indicated that RSA was the ideal method for the bioassay, showing the highest efficiency in the evaluation of allelopathic potential. RSS and SRE had a lower efficiency than RSA, but these two methods showed the same tendency in evaluating the allelopathic potential of rice. RSA, the considered best bioassay method in this experiment, was used for 57 allelopathic rice germplasm screening, and 5 of them, i.e., Iguape Cateto, PI312777, Azucena, Taichung Native 1 and IAC25 performed the strongest allelopathic potential in the suppression on barnyardgrass.
15669488	Pot culture experiments were conducted to examine the effects of water irrigation and rice plant density on the interference of allelopathic rice on barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crus-galli). The results showed that under water irrigations, allelopathic rice cultivars Xiayitiao, Gumei 2 and Zhong 156 significantly reduced the plant height of barnyardgrass than non-allelopathic rice cultivars Xiushui 63 and Chunjiang 11. Barnyardgrass plants grew shorter as rice plant density increased. Allelopathic rice cultivars Jizaoxian and Gumei 2 interfered with barnyardgrass, even at their densities as low as 4 plants per pot, and the interference reduced plant height of barnyardgrass significantly compared with the non-rice control. Allelopathic rice cultivars Xiayitiao, Jizaoxian, PI312777, TN1, Gumei 2 and Zhong 156 at 32 rice plants per pot inhibited the growth of barnyardgrass significantly than Chunjiang 11.
15669507	The objective of this research was to investigate the variability and the quantitative relationships among soil nutrients and crop growth status and yield. All data were analyzed by both classical statistics and geostatistics based on GIS. Soil properties included soil pH, total N, organic matter, available P and available K, while crop growth status was indicated by SPAD, LAI and SPAD x LAI. All parameters except soil pH exhibited spatial correlation. Soil total N and organic matter, SPAD, LAI and SPAD x LAI were all correlated to rice yield. Kriged interpolation maps provided good indication of the spatial variability in crop yield and growth status. Spatial interpolation and correlation analysis proved that SPAD x LAI was more indicative of crop growth status than individual variables, and useful for implementing growth season and topdressing as needed.
15672221	Novel additives that act as substratum for attachment of the yeast cells, increased ethanol production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The addition of 2 g rice husk, straw, wood shavings, plastic pieces or silica gel to 100 ml medium enhanced ethanol production by 30-40 (v/v). Six distillery strains showed an average enhancement of 34 from 4.1 (v/v) in control to 5.5 (v/v) on addition of rice husk. The cell wall bound glycogen increased by 40-50 mg g (-1) dry yeast while intracellular glycogen decreased by 10-12 mg g(-1) dry yeast in cells grown in presence of substratum.
15672377	A method for the production of high-purity isomalto-oligosaccharides (IMO) involving the transglucosylation by transglucosidase and yeast fermentation was proposed. The starch of rice crumbs was enzymatically liquefied and saccharified, and then converted to low-purity IMO syrup by transglucosylation. The low-purity IMO produced either from rice crumbs or tapioca flour as the starch source could be effectively converted to high-purity IMO by yeast fermentation to remove the digestible sugars including glucose, maltose, and maltotriose. Both Saccharomyces carlsbergensis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae were able to ferment glucose in the IMO syrup. Cells of S. carlsbergensis harvested from the medium of malt juice were also able to ferment maltose and maltotriose. A combination of these two yeasts or S. carlsbergensis alone could be used to totally remove the digestible sugars in the IMO, coupled with the production of ethanol. The resultant high-purity IMO, including mainly isomaltose, panose, and isomaltotriose made up more than 98% w/w of the total sugars after a 3-day fermentation. When the low-purity IMO was produced from the starch of tapioca flour, 3-day fermentation under the same conditions resulted in IMO with purity lower than that from rice crumbs. For low-purity IMO from rice crumbs, fermentation with washed S. carlsbergensis cells harvested at log phase was the most effective. However, for the low-purity IMO from tapioca flour, incubation with S. cerevisiae for the first 24 h and then supplementing with an equal amount of S. carlsbergensis cells for further fermentation was the most effective approach for producing high-purity IMO.
15672456	Salt stress is one of the major abiotic stresses in agriculture worldwide. We report here a systematic proteomic approach to investigate the salt stress-responsive proteins in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). Three-week-old seedlings were treated with 150 mM NaCl for 24, 48 and 72 h. Total proteins of roots were extracted and separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. More than 1100 protein spots were reproducibly detected, including 34 that were up-regulated and 20 down-regulated. Mass spectrometry analysis and database searching helped us to identify 12 spots representing 10 different proteins. Three spots were identified as the same protein, enolase. While four of them were previously confirmed as salt stress-responsive proteins, six are novel ones, i.e. UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, cytochrome c oxidase subunit 6b-1, glutamine synthetase root isozyme, putative nascent polypeptide associated complex alpha chain, putative splicing factor-like protein and putative actin-binding protein. These proteins are involved in regulation of carbohydrate, nitrogen and energy metabolism, reactive oxygen species scavenging, mRNA and protein processing, and cytoskeleton stability. This study gives new insights into salt stress response in rice roots and demonstrates the power of the proteomic approach in plant biology studies.
15672818	We have previously identified three lesion-mimic mutants, cell death and resistance (cdr), in rice. These mutants induce a series of defense responses, including expression of defense-related genes and high accumulation of phytoalexins, indicating that the cdr mutants are useful materials to study programmed cell death and defense signaling in rice. Here, we carried out a proteome analysis of the cdr2 mutant. Total proteins prepared from the wild type and the cdr2 mutant at three different stages of lesion formation were compared using two-dimensional electrophoresis. We found a total of 37 proteins that were differentially expressed between cdr2 and wild type. Among them, 28 spots were up-regulated and nine were down-regulated in the cdr2 mutant. All the protein spots were identified by mass spectrometric analysis. These differentially regulated proteins included defense-related proteins. In addition, 27 proteins were classified as metabolic enzymes, suggesting that the programmed cell death that occurs in the cdr2 mutant is associated with active metabolic changes. Our study shows that proteome analysis is a useful approach to study programmed cell death and defense signaling in plants.
15672840	We assessed the effect of four different virulence (vir) gene combinations on plant transformation efficiency and transgene behaviour in rice using the pGreen/pSoup dual binary vector system. Transformation experiments were conducted using a pGreen vector containing the bar and gusA expression units with, or without, the virG542, virGN54D, virGwt or the virG/B/C genes added to the backbone. Additonal vir gene(s) significantly altered plant transformation efficiency and the integration of vector backbone sequences. However, no differences in transgene copy number, percentage of expressing lines and expression levels could be detected. Addition of virGwt was the most beneficial, doubling the overall performance of the pGreen/pSoup vector system based on transformation frequency, absence of backbone sequence integration and expression of unselected transgenes. In 39% of the plant lines, the additional vir genes were integrated into the rice genome. The contribution of 'super dual binary' pGreen/pSoup vectors to the development of efficient rice transformation systems and to the production of plants free of selectable marker genes are discussed.
15673718	The nucleotide sequence was determined for the genome of Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae (Xoo) KACC10331, a bacterium that causes bacterial blight in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The genome is comprised of a single, 4 941 439 bp, circular chromosome that is G + C rich (63.7%). The genome includes 4637 open reading frames (ORFs) of which 3340 (72.0%) could be assigned putative function. Orthologs for 80% of the predicted Xoo genes were found in the previously reported X.axonopodis pv. citri (Xac) and X.campestris pv. campestris (Xcc) genomes, but 245 genes apparently specific to Xoo were identified. Xoo genes likely to be associated with pathogenesis include eight with similarity to Xanthomonas avirulence (avr) genes, a set of hypersensitive reaction and pathogenicity (hrp) genes, genes for exopolysaccharide production, and genes encoding extracellular plant cell wall-degrading enzymes. The presence of these genes provides insights into the interactions of this pathogen with its gramineous host.
15675447	A method is described for the rapid determination of pesticide residues in agricultural products. Pesticides were extracted from samples with acetonitrile. To remove pigments and fatty acids, an aliquot of the extract was cleaned up by a minicolumn that was packed both with graphitized carbon black and primary secondary amine. Analysis was performed by gas chromatography/ mass spectrometry with programmable temperature vaporizer-based large volume injection using a liner packed with phenylmethylsilicone chemically bonded silica. The method was evaluated for 114 pesticides by spiking into tomato, spinach, Japanese pear, grape, and brown rice at various concentrations of each pesticide (0.02-0.4 microg/g). The method, which gave good recovery (>60%) for 108 pesticides, is characterized by high cleanup efficiency and short cleanup time, and is useful as a rapid screening analysis.
15675523	A 13-year-old intact male poodle had suffered periodic tetanic crises for two months. It was cachectic and moderately dehydrated, and during the crises blindness, a stiff gait and behavioural changes were observed. Routine haematological and biochemical profiles showed that it was severely hypocalcaemic, with a corrected plasma calcium concentration of 1.13 mmol/litre (reference range 2.25 to 3 mmol/litre). The dog was fed a home-made diet composed of chicken and basmati rice cooked with a soup bouillon cube; an analysis of its daily allowance indicated that the dog was generally malnourished and received only 0.222 g of calcium per day rather than the 0.6 g it required. In addition, the dog had a low blood concentration of parathyroid hormone of 12 ng/litre (reference range 20 to 80 ng/litre). Supplementing the dog with calcitriol for four days and correcting its diet increased its blood calcium to the lower part of the reference range and resolved the clinical signs, although its parathyroid hormone concentration was still low one year later.
15678334	Voltammetric methods are very suitable, versatile and rapid techniques for simultaneous determination of metals in complex matrices. The present work, determination of Cu(II), Sn(II), Sb(III), Tl(I), and Pb(II) by square-wave anodic-stripping voltammetry and Cr(VI) by square-wave adsorptive-stripping voltammetry, is an interesting example of the possibility of simultaneous determination of each single element in food and environmental samples, even in the presence of reciprocal interference. Dibasic ammonium citrate, pH 6.3 or 8.2, was employed as supporting electrolyte. The voltammetric measurements were carried out using a stationary hanging mercury drop electrode as working electrode and a platinum electrode and an Ag|AgCl|KCl(sat) electrode as auxiliary and reference electrodes, respectively. The analytical procedure was verified by analysis of standard reference materials--wholemeal BCR-CRM 189, wheat flour NIST-SRM 1567a, rice flour NIST-SRM 1568a, estuarine sediment BCR-CRM 277, river sediment BCR-CRM 320, and Montana soil with moderately elevated traces NIST-SRM 2711. Precision and accuracy, expressed as relative standard deviation and relative error, respectively, were generally below 6% whereas limits of detection for each element were below 0.069 microg g(-1). In the presence of reciprocal interference the standard addition method considerably improved the resolution of the voltammetric technique, even for very high element concentration ratios. After being set up on the standard reference materials the analytical procedure was transferred and applied to commercial samples of meal and soil samples taken from sites devoted to agricultural practice. A critical comparison with graphite furnace atomic-absorption spectroscopy is also discussed.
15678558	Gliotoxin, an epithiodiketopiperazine toxin produced by the "Q" strain of Trichoderma virens, is essential for curtailing growth and multiplication of phytopathogens (Howell et al. 1993, Fravel 1988). Three isolates (Gv, Gv-A and Gv-V) of Trichoderma virens were grown on natural substrates such as bengal gram hull, gingelly cake, green gram hull, rice bran, soya meal, sugarcane bagasse, soyameal + tapioca, tapioca powder, tapioca peel and wheat bran). It was evident from this study that maximum gliotoxin (64 mg/l) was produced on tapioca powder by the alien isolate Gv. However sugarcane bagasse significantly enhanced gliotoxin production (36 mg/l) in the native isolate Gv-A, when compared to other substrates like green gram hull and rice bran. So far, studies on production of gliotoxin on synthetic media has been reported. We report the production of gliotoxin by T. virens on natural substrates "in vitro" for the first time.
15678565	The Atlantic Rainforest is a Brazilian ecosystem that is being rapidly being destroyed, along with the abiotic and biotic factors present in it. Among the biotic factors, the fungi are found in the soil which, besides being of major importance in terms of ecological niches, also have broad and significant applications in biotechnology. In order to assess the biodiversity of these microorganisms in this type of ecosystem, the Banhado Grande region was chosen at the Jureia-Itatins Ecology Station, in the state of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Within this region, two areas were delimited for study, one covered with natural (primary) vegetation and the other containing vegetation that regenerated following the planting of rice crops, referred to here as secondary. Collection of compound soil samples were taken (depth 0-15 cm) over a period of two and a half years, with the litter first being removed, during dry/cold and humid/hot periods. After sifting the samples, they were appropriately processed using the serial dilution technique to isolate the fungi from the soil. Six different culture media were used, having pHs of 4.5, 7.0 and 9.0. Altogether, 1,211 strains were isolated, divided into the following groups: Hyphomycetes, the most abundant followed by Ascomycetes, Zygomycetes, Coelomycetes, and Oomycetes. From these, 112 species were identified, 8 down to the genus level, and those that did not produce conidia were grouped as Mycelia sterilia. Among the strains, 67 were cellulolytic, 32 originated solely in soil under natural vegetation, and 26 originated solely in soil under secondary vegetation.
15678943	A study was conducted to evaluate the applicability of ICP-MS techniques for determination of metals in brown rice and fish. Cadmium, lead, mercury, arsenic, selenium, manganese, copper and zinc were determined by this method. An open digestion with nitric acid (Method A) and a rapid open digestion with nitric acid and hydrochloric acid (Method B) were used to solubilize analytes in samples, and these procedures were followed by ICP-MS analysis. Recovery of certified elements from standard reference materials by Method A and Method B ranged from 92 to 110% except for mercury (70 to 100%). Analytical results of brown rice and fish samples obtained by this ICP-MS agreed with those obtained by atomic absorption spectrometry (AAS). The results of this study demonstrate that quadrupole ICP-MS provides precise and accurate measurements of the elements tested in brown rice and fish samples.
15679326	Three hydroxylated triterpene alcohol ferulates, (24S)-cycloart-25-ene-3 beta,24-diol-3 beta-trans-ferulate (1), (24R)-cycloart-25-ene-3 beta,24-diol-3 beta-trans-ferulate (2), and cycloart-23Z-ene-3 beta,25-diol-3 beta-trans-ferulate (3), along with known compounds cycloartenol trans-ferulate (4) and 24-methylenecycloartanol trans-ferulate (5) were isolated from rice bran. Their structures were elucidated by means of chemical and spectroscopic analysis. Compounds 2-5 showed moderate cytotoxicity against MCF-7 cells.
15679509	Over the past decade, the use of the ketogenic diet internationally has increased dramatically. The purpose of this survey was to evaluate the use of the diet worldwide. With the use of the Internet, e-mail requests for information about international ketogenic diet centers (outside the United States) were made over a 9-month period. Assistance also was obtained from the Child Neurology Society and International League Against Epilepsy. Questions included patient enrollment (total and annually), year the diet was first offered, unique cultural and religious issues in the country, community opinion, and research interests. Successful communication was made with 73 academic centers in 41 countries outside the United States. Sixteen (39%) countries provided information from multiple centers. The median duration offering the diet was 8 years (range, 1-45 years). The average number of patients enrolled to date was 71.6 per country, with 5.4 new patients annually. Common difficulties included avoiding rice intake, tolerating higher fat-to-protein and carbohydrate ratios (e.g., 4:1), finding specific nutritional labels on foods, and handling the growing interest from large populations with limited resources. Nevertheless, cultural and religious issues were generally not limiting; physician and patient acceptance of the diet as an option is high; and most meals were similar among countries. Centers often had great pride in their programs, and international collaborative groups are forming rapidly. A website is now available with updated center information at http://www.neuro.jhmi.edu/Epilepsy/Peds/ketoworldwide.htm Despite occasional difficulties, the ketogenic diet is being used worldwide.
1567968	To investigate dietary intake patterns among school-students. An observational prospective study. A dietary survey was used to establish how many times habitual foods were eaten each week. SITE. The population of the northern half of the city of Soria. (North Soria Health Centre). All the school-children aged 6 and 7 (74 boys and 57 girls in both the private and public sectors) took part in the programme. The intake of foodstuffs was stratified as greatest in quartiles. The consumers of sweet "junk" foods also ate significantly more savory "junk" food (p = 0.00009). We found and inverse consumption relationship between savory "junk" foods and an intake of greens and root-crops (p = 0.03) and of pasta and rice (p = 0.008). The lower consumption of greens and fruits was linked to a lower consumption of fish (p = 0.023), to a lower consumption of meat (p = 0.037) and of meat products (p = 0.008). Lower consumption of eggs was linked to a greater consumption of meat (p = 0.016) and fish (p = 0.029). The consumption of savory "junk" foods and meat products can replace nutrients of a high biological value which are found in greens and root-crops. New studies to deepen the taxonomical analysis of the school diet are required. These should identify eating patterns which could endanger health in adult life.
15682234	During the 16 years Thomas Gainsborough (1727-88) lived in Bath he was especially friendly with two eminent physicians, Rice Charleton (1723-88) and Abel Moysey (1715-80). They both treated Gainsborough for a severe nervous illness. In return he painted portraits of them without charge. Gainsborough's two daughters were both mentally unstable and when the elder one became very ill he had to call for the services of a third Bath physician, Dr Ralph Schomberg (1714-92), who was also the subject of a fine portrait. In the final phase of his life Gainsborough moved to London, where he suffered his fatal illness, possibly squamous cell carcinoma. For this he was treated by William Heberden (1710-1801) and John Hunter (1728-93).
15682288	Barley cDNA and genomic clones homologous to the Arabidopsis flowering time regulator GIGANTEA were isolated. Genetic mapping showed that GIGANTEA is present as a single copy gene in barley (3HS) and rice (1S), while two copies are present in maize (3S and 8S) at locations consistent with previous comparative mapping studies. Comparison of the barley peptide with rice and Arabidopsis gave 94% and 79% similarity, respectively. Northern and semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the barley gene (HvGI) showed the presence of a single mRNA species, with a peak of expression between 6 h and 9 h after dawn in short days (8 h light) and a peak 15 h after dawn in long days (16 h light). This behaviour is similar to that seen in Arabidopsis and rice, showing that sequence and expression pattern were well conserved. A lack of correspondence with the map positions of QTL affecting flowering time (heading date) suggests that variation at HvGI does not provide a major source of adaptive variation in photoperiod response.
15683393	Methane is formed on rice roots mainly by CO2 reduction. The present study aimed to identify the active methanogenic populations responsible for this process. Soil-free rice roots were incubated anaerobically under an atmosphere of H2/(13CO2) or N2/(13CO2) with phosphate or carbonate (marble) as buffer medium. Nucleic acids were extracted and fractionated by caesium trifluoroacetate equilibrium density gradient centrifugation after 16-day incubation. Community analyses were performed for gradient fractions using terminal restriction fragment polymorphism analysis (T-RFLP) and sequencing of the 16S rRNA genes. In addition, rRNA was extracted and analysed at different time points to trace the community change during the 16-day incubation. The Methanosarcinaceae and the yet-uncultured archaeal lineage Rice Cluster-I (RC-I) were predominant in the root incubations when carbonate buffer and N2 headspace were used. The analysis of [13C]DNA showed that the relative 16S rRNA gene abundance of RC-I increased whereas that of the Methanosarcinaceae decreased with increasing DNA buoyant density, indicating that members of RC-I were more active than the Methanosarcinaceae. However, an unexpected finding was that RC-I was suppressed in the presence of high H2 concentrations (80%, v/v), which during the early incubation period caused a lower CH4 production compared with that with N2 in the headspace. Eventually, however, CH4 production increased, probably because of the activity of Methanosarcinaceae, which became prevalent. Phosphate buffer appeared to inhibit the activity of the Methanosarcinaceae, resulting in lower CH4 production as compared with carbonate buffer. Under these conditions, Methanobacteriaceae were the prevalent methanogens. Our study suggests that the active methanogenic populations on rice roots change in correspondence to the presence of H2 (80%, v/v) and the type of buffer used in the system.
15683912	Shrimp waste is an important source of natural carotenoid. Studies were carried out to determine the extraction yield of shrimp waste carotenoids in different vegetable oils. Highest yield was obtained by extraction using refined sunflower oil compared to groundnut oil, gingelly oil, mustard oil, soy oil, coconut oil and rice bran oil. The extraction yield of carotenoids in sunflower oil was significantly influenced by level of oil to waste (p < 0.05), time (p < 0.01) and temperature (p < 0.001) of heating waste with oil before centrifugation to separate pigmented oil. A regression equation was derived for carotenoid yield as a function of time of heating, temperature of heating and oil level to waste. The optimized conditions for extraction of shrimp waste carotenoids in sunflower oil were determined to be oil level to waste of 2, temperature of 70 degrees C and heating time of 150 min.
15684019	Protein disulfide isomerases (PDIs) are molecular chaperones that contain thioredoxin (TRX) domains and aid in the formation of proper disulfide bonds during protein folding. To identify plant PDI-like (PDIL) proteins, a genome-wide search of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) was carried out to produce a comprehensive list of 104 genes encoding proteins with TRX domains. Phylogenetic analysis was conducted for these sequences using Bayesian and maximum-likelihood methods. The resulting phylogenetic tree showed that evolutionary relationships of TRX domains alone were correlated with conserved enzymatic activities. From this tree, we identified a set of 22 PDIL proteins that constitute a well-supported clade containing orthologs of known PDIs. Using the Arabidopsis PDIL sequences in iterative BLAST searches of public and proprietary sequence databases, we further identified orthologous sets of 19 PDIL sequences in rice (Oryza sativa) and 22 PDIL sequences in maize (Zea mays), and resolved the PDIL phylogeny into 10 groups. Five groups (I-V) had two TRX domains and showed structural similarities to the PDIL proteins in other higher eukaryotes. The remaining five groups had a single TRX domain. Two of these (quiescin-sulfhydryl oxidase-like and adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate reductase-like) had putative nonisomerase enzymatic activities encoded by an additional domain. Two others (VI and VIII) resembled small single-domain PDIs from Giardia lamblia, a basal eukaryote, and from yeast. Mining of maize expressed sequence tag and RNA-profiling databases indicated that members of all of the single-domain PDIL groups were expressed throughout the plant. The group VI maize PDIL ZmPDIL5-1 accumulated during endoplasmic reticulum stress but was not found within the intracellular membrane fractions and may represent a new member of the molecular chaperone complement in the cell.
15684409	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important regulatory roles in animals and plants by targeting mRNAs for cleavage or translational repression. They have diverse expression patterns and might regulate various developmental and physiological processes. Profiling miRNA expression is very helpful for studying biological functions of miRNAs. We report a novel miRNA profiling microarray, in which miRNAs were directly labeled at the 3' terminus with biotin and hybridized with complementary oligo-DNA probes immobilized on glass slides, and subsequently detected by measuring fluorescence of quantum dots labeled with streptavidin bound to miRNAs through streptavidin-biotin interaction. The detection limit of this microarray for miRNA was approximately 0.4 fmol, and the detection dynamic range spanned about 2 orders of magnitude. We made a model microarray to profile 11 miRNAs from leaf and root of rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica) seedlings. The analysis results of the miRNAs had a good reproducibility and were consistent with the northern blot result. To avoid using high-cost detection equipment, colorimetric detection, a method based on nanogold probe coupled with silver enhancement, was also successfully introduced into miRNA profiling microarray detection.
1568478	We have isolated and determined the nucleotide sequence of the structural gene (sodB) coding for one of the copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn-SOD) isozymes from rice plants (Oryza sativa L.). The sodB gene is split into 8 exons spread about 2 kb of the chromosomal DNA, with the coding sequence beginning in the 2nd and ending in the 8th. Although none of sodB introns are inserted into similar positions in Cu/Zn-SOD genes from other sources, four of six introns in the protein-coding region are located at discriminating positions within structural domains of the protein. Genomic Southern analysis indicated that cytosolic Cu/Zn-SOD is coded for by 2-3 genes in the rice genome.
15685292	We report improved whole-genome shotgun sequences for the genomes of indica and japonica rice, both with multimegabase contiguity, or almost 1,000-fold improvement over the drafts of 2002. Tested against a nonredundant collection of 19,079 full-length cDNAs, 97.7% of the genes are aligned, without fragmentation, to the mapped super-scaffolds of one or the other genome. We introduce a gene identification procedure for plants that does not rely on similarity to known genes to remove erroneous predictions resulting from transposable elements. Using the available EST data to adjust for residual errors in the predictions, the estimated gene count is at least 38,000-40,000. Only 2%-3% of the genes are unique to any one subspecies, comparable to the amount of sequence that might still be missing. Despite this lack of variation in gene content, there is enormous variation in the intergenic regions. At least a quarter of the two sequences could not be aligned, and where they could be aligned, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rates varied from as little as 3.0 SNP/kb in the coding regions to 27.6 SNP/kb in the transposable elements. A more inclusive new approach for analyzing duplication history is introduced here. It reveals an ancient whole-genome duplication, a recent segmental duplication on Chromosomes 11 and 12, and massive ongoing individual gene duplications. We find 18 distinct pairs of duplicated segments that cover 65.7% of the genome; 17 of these pairs date back to a common time before the divergence of the grasses. More important, ongoing individual gene duplications provide a never-ending source of raw material for gene genesis and are major contributors to the differences between members of the grass family.
15685364	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous small RNAs that play important regulatory roles in both animals and plants. miRNA genes have been intensively studied in animals, but not in plants. In this study, we adopted a homology search approach to identify homologs of previously validated plant miRNAs in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. We identified 20 potential miRNA genes in Arabidopsis and 40 in O. sativa, providing a relatively complete enumeration of family members for these miRNAs in plants. In addition, a greater number of Arabidopsis miRNAs (MIR168, MIR159 and MIR172) were found to be conserved in rice. With the novel homologs, most of the miRNAs have closely related fellow miRNAs and the number of paralogs varies in the different miRNA families. Moreover, a probable functional segment highly conserved on the elongated stem of pre-miRNA fold-backs of MIR319 and MIR159 family was identified. These results support a model of variegated miRNA regulation in plants, in which miRNAs with different functional elements on their pre-miRNA fold-backs can differ in their function or regulation, and closely related miRNAs can be diverse in their specificity or competence to downregulate target genes. It appears that the sophisticated regulation of miRNAs can achieve complex biological effects through qualitative and quantitative modulation of gene expression profiles in plants.
15685422	To clarify the diversity and function of isozymes of ascorbate peroxidase (APX) in plants, a method of producing large quantities of these proteins is needed. Here, we describe an Escherichia coli expression system for the rapid and economic expression of two rice APX genes, APXa and APXb (GeneBank accession Nos. D45423 and AB053297, respectively). The two genes were cloned into the pGEX-6p-3 vector to allow expression of APX as a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein. The GST-APXa and GST-APXb fusion proteins were purified by affinity chromatography using a glutathione-Sepharose 4B column, with final yields of 40 and 73 mg g(-1) dry cells, respectively. Specific activities were 15 and 20 mM ascorbate min(-1) mg(-1) protein, respectively. The K(m) values for ascorbate were 4 and 1 mM, respectively, and those for H(2)O(2) were 0.3 and 0.7 mM, respectively indicating that the two rice isoenzymes have different properties.
15686402	Six azaphilones, monascin (1), ankaflavin (2), rubropunctatin (3), monascorburin (4), rubropunctamine (5), and monascorburamine (6), two furanoisophthalides, xanthomonasin A (7) and xanthomonasin B (8), and two amino acids, (+)-monascumic acid (9) and (-)-monascumic acid (10), isolated from the extracts of Monascus pilosus-fermented rice (red-mold rice) were evaluated for their inhibitory effects on 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced inflammation in mice, on the induction of Epstein-Barr virus early antigen (EBV-EA) by TPA in Raji cells, and on the activation of (+/-)-(E)-methyl-2[(E)-hydroxy-imino]-5-nitro-6-methoxy-3-hexemide (NOR 1), a nitric oxide (NO) donor. Among the compounds tested, seven compounds (1-6 and 10) on TPA-induced inflammation, and six compounds (1, 3-5, 9, and 10) on EBV-EA activation, exhibited potent inhibitory effects. All of the compounds tested showed moderate inhibitory effects on NOR 1 activation.
15686439	Ethanol-water (70:30 v/v) extracts from rice brans removed from seeds of two blackish-purple pigmented (Sanhaehyanghyulla and Suwon 415) and one nonpigmented (Chuchung) brown rice cultivars were evaluated for antioxidative, anti-tumor-promoting, and anticarcinogenic activities in chemical assays and in mammalian cells (human leukemia HL-60, marmoset B lymphoblastoid B95-8, and Chinese hamster V79 lung cells) by the following tests: inhibition of xanthine oxidase activity; chelation of ferrous ions; reduction of potassium ferricyanide; scavenging of superoxide anions, hydroxyl radicals, and intracellular peroxides; inhibition of 4-nitroquinoline N-oxide-induced mutagenesis; and inhibition of phorbol ester-induced tumor promotion. The extracts from the pigmented rice seeds had generally higher activities in all tests than did the extract from the nonpigmented variety. The results suggest that brans from pigmented rice varieties may provide a source of new natural antioxidants and anticarcinogens and that such rice cultivars with high antioxidative potential also provide a genetic resource for the development of new, improved rice cultivars that may make it possible to enhance both the nutritional and medical value of rice-based diets.
15686526	The current focus of many functional genomic studies is on the elucidation of gene regulatory networks. The functional analyses of transcription factors and their DNA-binding sites, in conjunction with genome-wide expression profiling, are crucial in understanding of gene regulatory networks. This paper describes an efficient and easy method for characterizing the DNA-binding sequence specificity of novel plant transcription factors. This new method is based on the fusion of a DNA-binding protein (DBP) to 6xHis-tagged cellulase D (CELD), which serves both as a means for affinity purification of DBP-DNA complex in the selection of binding sites from a pool of biotinylated random-sequence oligonucleotides and as a reporter for measurement of DNA-binding activity. Thus, it eliminates the use of radioactivity and gel electrophoresis techniques currently used for purification of DBP-DNA complexes and assays of DNA-binding activity. The effectiveness of this method was demonstrated by the success of simultaneous selection of the binding sites of nine plant DBPs from four superfamilies (AP2, bHLH, NAC and MYB). The high-throughput capacity of CELD-based DNA-binding assays allows the quantitative analysis of the binding sequence specificity from a large number of DBP-selected oligonucleotides. The binding sequence specificity of three novel transcription factors (rice OsbHLH66, wheat TaNAC69 and TaMYB80), determined with this method, is presented. This new method provides the capacity of high-throughput analysis on the DNA-binding sequence specificity of a large number of putative transcription factors, predicted on the basis of conserved DNA-binding domains.
15686760	Concentrations of Ti, Ga, As, Sc, Zr, Sn, Hf, Th, U and Y have been determined for 70 paddy soils from 14 villages, selected throughout Sri Lanka by means of ICP-MS. The mean elemental contents of all paddy soil samples were 6120 Ti, 14.1 Ga, 0.84 As, 7.26 Sc, 129 Zr, 2.27 Sn, 3.64 Hf, 12.71 Th, 1.53 U, and 13.35 Y (all data in microg/g). Paddy soils were classified into groups based on morphology and climate. Higher contents of Th and U were found in the wet zone lowland soils whereas the higher Ti contents were observed in dry zone soils. Arsenic, Zr and Hf contents were comparatively similar in all regions. Factor analysis was used to identify the relationships between the contents of elements.
15687269	OsES1, a rice homolog of the maize En/Spm transposon, is transcribed to produce TnpA-like and TnpD-like transcripts. However, an alternatively spliced form of the TnpA-like transcript, which was found to be suppressed in transgenic plants, was revealed to be due to atypical splicing of a Hipa-like CACTA transposon.
15687775	The purpose of this study was to identify effects of the SP-6 acupressure on dysmenorrhea, the skin temperature of the CV2 acupoint and oral temperatures in the college students. Data was collected from May 1 to August 31, 2002. A total of 58 students from two universities participated in the study. Both groups were pretested before the intervention for three variables', the intensity of dysmenorrhea, skin temperature of the CV2 acupoint and oral temperature. Then, SP-6 acupressure was provided for 20 minutes for students in the experimental group. The instruments used in this study included the Visual Analogue Scale developed by Johnson & Rice(1974), Menstrual Attitudes Questionnaire Scale developed by Brooks-Gunn & Ruble(1980), and a Stress scale developed by Cheun and Kim(1991). There were statistically significant differences in the intensity of dysmenorrhea 30 minutes after the intervention. The experimental group had a lower intensity than the control group. There were not statistically significant differences in skin temperature of the CV2 acupoint and oral temperature 30 minutes after the intervention with the experimental group. SP-6 acupressure reduced the subjective perception of dysmenorrhea.
15688131	Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) are a common health problem prevalent in the wet zone of Sri Lanka with a prevalence of >25% of the population. In comparison, in the dry zone of Sri Lanka IDD occurs in <10% of the population. Seventy soil samples from 14 villages selected on the basis of the incidence of goitre, were collected and analysed for 13 trace elements using ICP-MS. In order to identify any prevailing differences in antecedent chemical environments, soil samples from each pre-selected village were classified into three groups in terms of their geographical location. Among the elements investigated, the total soil concentrations of Rb, Sr, Ba, Mn and Co are lower in the wet zone of Kalutara. In contrast, total soil Rb, Sr, Ba and Mn contents are higher in the dry zone of Anuradhapura. Further soil total Mo and Nb levels are relatively similar in all pre-selected study locations. The high endemic goitre regions (IDD >25% of the population) show low levels of Rb, Sr, Ba, and Mn and higher levels of V, Cr, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn and Pb as compared with moderate and non-goitre areas. Factor analysis was used to exploit the correlation structure present in data and yielded three groups in all cases. This indicated that most transition group elements and iodine are associated with the Mn phase in the low IDD areas whereas iodine shows a high affinity for the organic phase in high IDD regions. The variable distribution of trace elements, therefore, must be due to differences in mobility and capacity for incorporation into the structure of secondary minerals or organic phases.
15688201	Characterization and manipulation of aluminum (Al) tolerance genes offers a solution to Al toxicity problems in crop cultivation on acid soil, which composes approximately 40% of all arable land. By exploiting the rice (Oryza sativa L.)/rye (Secale cereale L.) syntenic relationship, the potential for map-based cloning of genes controlling Al tolerance in rye (the most Al-tolerant cereal) was explored. An attempt to clone an Al tolerance gene (Alt3) from rye was initiated by using DNA markers flanking the rye Alt3 gene, from many cereals. Two rice-derived, PCR-based markers flanking the Alt3 gene, B1 and B4, were used to screen 1,123 plants of a rye F2 population segregating for Alt3. Fifteen recombinant plants were identified. Four additional RFLP markers developed from rice genes/putative genes, spanning 10 kb of a 160-kb rice BAC, were mapped to the Alt3 region. Two rice markers flanked the Alt3 locus at a distance of 0.05 cM, while two others co-segregated with it. The rice/rye micro-colinearity worked very well to delineate and map the Alt3 gene region in rye. A rye fragment suspected to be part of the Alt3 candidate gene was identified, but at this level, the rye/rice microsynteny relationship broke down. Because of sequence differences between rice and rye and the complexity of the rye sequence, we have been unable to clone a full-length candidate gene in rye. Further attempts to clone a full-length rye Alt3 candidate gene will necessitate the creation of a rye large-insert library.
15688851	The first health effect of cadmium (Cd) was lung damage, reported in workers already in the 1930's, while bone effects and proteinuria were reported in the 1940's. After World War II, a bone disease with fractures and severe pain, the itai-itai disease, a form of Cd-induced renal osteomalacia, was identified in Japan. Subsequently, the toxicokinetics and toxicodynamics of Cd were described including its binding to the protein metallothionein. International warnings of health risks from cadmium pollution were issued in the 1970's. WHO, 1992, identified renal dysfunction as the critical effect and a crude quantitative evaluation was presented. In the 1990's population groups in China exposed to Cd via rice were studied and new information on skeletal, renal and reproductive toxicity of Cd was obtained in the ChinaCad project. There was a decrease in Bone Mineral Density (BMD), an increased prevalence of fractures and an increased urinary content of marker proteins of renal dysfunction among persons with long term exposure to Cd. The development of such biomarkers can be seen as a result of applied 'proteomics' research. Variation in metallothionein gene expression was related to development of renal dysfunction, supporting the usefulness of this 'genomic' approach. The ongoing rapid development of 'genomics' and 'proteomics' technologies will improve possibilities for molecular epidemiology studies in the future, providing an even better basis for preventive action. In many countries, Cd exposures are now under better control than in the past. The target for the 21st century is to achieve a totally acceptable exposure situation without adverse health effects from Cd.
15688852	Occupational exposure to cadmium has for long been associated with renal tubular cell dysfunction, osteomalacia with osteoporosis, hypercalciuria and renal stone formation. High environmental exposure in Japan resulting from a stable diet of cadmium contaminated rice caused itai-itai disease, fractures occurring mainly in elderly multiparous women, with a form of osteomalacia, osteoporosis and renal dysfunction. More recently a population based study in Europe, in the vicinity of zinc smelters has shown that low to moderate exposure to cadmium, with a mean urinary excretion of cadmium of the order of 1 microg/g creatinine has been associated with a decrease in bone density, an increased risk of bone fractures in women and of height loss in men. In a population-based study of residents near a cadmium smelter in China, forearm bone density was shown to decrease linearly with age and urinary cadmium in both sexes, suggesting a dose effect relationship between cadmium dose and bone mineral density. A marked increase in the prevalence of fractures was shown in the cadmium-polluted area in both sexes. Concentrations of cadmium in blood and urine were taken as exposure biomarkers, and beta2-microglobulin, retinol binding protein and albumin as biomarkers of effect. A marked dose response relationship between these indicators of exposure and effect was shown. Hypercalciuria, which may progress to osteoporosis, has been taken as a sensitive renal-tubular biomarker of a low level of cadmium exposure. Cadmium may also act directly on bone. Animal studies have shown cadmium to stimulate the formation and activity of osteoclasts, breaking down the collagen matrix in bone. Osteoporosis is the main cause of fracures in post-menopausal women, a common occurrence worldwide, giving rise to disability and a high cost to health services. The identification of cadmium, an environmental pollutant, as one causal factor is highly significant in helping to control the incidence of this complex condition.
15688862	We believe greater consideration should be given the agronomic and nutritional/bioavailability factors that influence risk from Cd-contaminated soils. We have argued that the ability of rice to accumulate soil Cd in grain while excluding Fe, Zn and Ca (even though the soil contains 100-times more Zn than Cd) was important in adverse effects of soil Cd is farm families in Asia. Further, polished rice grain is deficient in Fe, Zn and Ca for humans, which promotes Cd absorption into duodenal cells. New kinetic studies clarified that dietary Cd is absorbed into duodenum enterocytes; 109Cd from a single meal remained in the duodenum for up to 16 days; part of the turnover pool 109Cd moved to the liver and kidneys by the end of the 64-day 'chase' period. Thus malnutrition induced by subsistence rice diets caused a higher absorption of dietary Cd and much higher potential risk from soil Cd than other crops. Because rice-induced Fe-Zn-Ca-malnutrition is so important in soil Cd risk, it seems evident that providing nutritional supplements to populations of exposed subsistence rice farmers could protect them against soil Cd during a period of soil remediation. In the long term, high Cd rice soils need to be remediated. Remediation by removal and replacement of contaminated soil is very expensive (on the order of $3 million/ha); while phytoextraction using the high Cd accumulating ecotypes of the Zn-Cd hyperaccumulator, Thlaspi caerulescens, should provide low cost soil Cd remediation.
15688869	In Japan the most heavily cadmium (Cd)-polluted region is the Jinzu river basin, where Itai-itai disease is endemic and the Kakehashi river basin is the second most polluted region.. The village average Cd concentrations in rice were distributed in the range between 0.02 microg/g and 1.06 microg/g in the Jinzu river basin and 0.11 microg g and 0.67 microg g in the Kakehashi river basin. Severe renal damage has occurred widely in the Jinzu river basin. Even after Cd exposure had ceased, renal dysfunction became worse. Dose-response relationships between Cd exposure and health effects were clearly demonstrated in both regions. The allowable limits (according to the present authors' assessment) of Cd concentrations in rice were estimated to be 0.08 microg g to 0.13 microg g and approximately 2 g for total Cd intake. Renal dysfunction caused by exposure to Cd was associated with an increased mortality in both regions. The increased total Cd intake and high concentration of Cd in rice also exerts an adverse influence on life prognosis.
15689077	Japanese encephalitis is one of the major public health problems in Assam, northeast India. We aimed to elucidated the clinical and epidemiological profile of the disease during several outbreaks in Assam in 3 consecutive years. Cerebro-spinal fluid and or serum samples of 348 out of 773 clinically-suspected viral encephalitis patients admitted to different hospitals during the period June to August of 2000 to 2002 were tested for detection of JE specific IgM antibody, employing MAC ELISA test at RMRC (ICMR), Dibrugarh. Diagnosis was confirmed in 53.7% patients with the ratios of 1.8:1 and 1.4:1 for male to female and pediatric to adult patients respectively. Most of the cases were pediatrics at the age of 7 to 12 years (34.2%). Fever (100%), altered sensorium (81.8%), headache (70.6%), neck rigidity (54.0%), abnormal movement (51.3%), exaggerated reflexes (48.1%), restlessness (44.9%), increased muscle tone (35.3%), convulsion (33.7%) and coma (20.9%) were the major clinical findings. The majority of cases (96.3%) were from rural areas. House surroundings close to water bodies, rice cultivation, association with pigs, and climatic conditions were environmental factors affecting the abundance of the potential mosquito vectors of the disease.
15690812	Mold counts and Aspergillus section Flavi populations in rice and its by-products from the Philippines were examined. The average mold counts of rough rice, brown rice, and locally produced polished rice were 4.1 x 10(3), 1.0 x 10(3), and 1.1 x 10(3) CFU/g, respectively. Average Aspergillus section Flavi counts of the same samples were 3.0 x 10(2), 1.1 x 10(2), and 2.6 x 10(2) CFU/g, respectively. Twenty-seven percent of mold isolates from rough rice, polished rice, and brown rice were section Flavi spp., 31% of which were toxigenic. No section Flavi isolates were obtained from imported rice samples from Thailand and Vietnam. Aspergillus section Flavi was also isolated from rice hull, rice bran, and settled dust from rice milling operations. Toxigenic isolates of both Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus were present in at least one sample of each type of rice and rice by-product except settled dust. Aflatoxins produced in vitro by the isolates ranged from <1 microg/kg to 6,227 microg/kg. A. flavus isolates produced only B aflatoxins, whereas A. parasiticus isolates produced both B and G aflatoxins. Although total mold counts of Philippine rice and its by-products are within tolerable limits, the establishment of maximum limits in counts of potentially aflatoxigenic species in foods and feeds is important because the mere presence of toxin producers is considered a possible risk factor. The results of this research illustrate the need for strict monitoring of rice during both storage and marketing, especially in warm and humid seasons when infestation and consequent production of aflatoxins by Aspergillus section Flavi is expected.
15691070	Fluorescent pseudomonads were isolated from the rhizosphere of rice and sugarcane and examined for their biodiversity. All fifty strains of the fluorescent pseudomonads produced indole acetic acid. Among these pseudomonads, halves of sugarcane rhizosphere isolates and one isolate from the rice rhizosphere exhibited phosphate solubilization activity. On the contrary, majority of the rice rhizosphere pseudomonads, and one isolate from sugarcane rhizosphere exhibited antifungal activity. These fluorescent pseudomonads were further classified based on their growth and biochemical characteristics. Those isolates that had same biochemical characteristics were distinguished by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD). These biochemical and molecular biological methods clearly differentiated fluorescent Pseudomonads of rice and sugarcane rhizosphere.
15692822	The tobacco retrotransposon Tto1 is one of the few known active retrotransposons, and its transposition in tobacco, rice and Arabidopsis has been reported to be activated by tissue culture. We introduced Tto1 into a diploid potato by means of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and obtained two transformed plants carrying Tto1. We then induced plant regeneration via callus formation from leaf explants of Tto1-transformed plants and determined the copy number of Tto1 in the regenerants. A drastic increase in the number of Tto1 copies was not observed. Transcripts of Tto1 were detected in the leaf but not in the callus, suggesting that the transposition of Tto1 may not be activated by tissue culture in potato. The results indicated that the potato is a recalcitrant plant with respect to Tto1 transposition and that the behavior of Tto1 can differ depending on the host plant.
15692859	Methanogenic degradation of organic matter is an important microbial process in lake sediments. Temperature may affect not only the rate but also the pathway of CH4 production by changing the activity and the abundance of individual microorganisms. Therefore, we studied the function and structure of a methanogenic community in anoxic sediment of Lake Dagow, a eutrophic lake in north-eastern Germany. Incubation of sediment samples (in situ 7.5 degrees C) at increasing temperatures (4, 10, 15, 25, 30 degrees C) resulted in increasing production rates of CH4 and CO2 and in increasing steady-state concentrations of H2. Thermodynamic conditions for H2/CO2 -dependent methanogenesis were only exergonic at 25 and 30 degrees C. Inhibition of methanogenesis with chloroform resulted in the accumulation of methanogenic precursors, i.e., acetate, propionate, and isobutyrate. Mass balance calculations indicated that less CH4 was formed via H2 at 4 degrees C than at 30 degrees C. Conversion of 14CO2 to 14CH4 also showed that H2/CO2 -dependent methanogenesis contributed less to total CH4 production at 4 degrees C than at 30 degrees C. [2-14 C]Acetate turnover rates at 4 degrees C accounted for a higher percentage of total CH4 production than at 30 degrees C. Collectively, these results showed a higher contribution of H2-dependent methanogenesis and a lower contribution of acetate-dependent methanogenesis at high versus low temperature. The archaeal community was characterized by cloning, sequencing, and phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA genes retrieved from the sediment. Sequences were affiliated with Methanosaetaceae, Methanomicrobiaceae, and three deeply branching euryarchaeotal clusters, i.e., group III, Rice cluster V, and a novel euryarchaeotal cluster, the LDS cluster. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis showed that 16S rRNA genes affiliated to Methanosaetaceae (20-30%), Methanomicrobiaceae (35-55%), and group III (10-25%) contributed most to the archaeal community. Incubation of the sediment at different temperatures (4-30 degrees C) did not result in a systematic change of the archaeal community composition, indicating that change of temperature primarily affected the activity rather than the structure of the methanogenic community.
15692862	Exploration of environmental factors governing soil microbial community composition is long overdue and now possible with improved methods for characterizing microbial communities. Previously, we observed that rice soil microbial communities were distinctly different from tomato soil microbial communities, despite management and seasonal variations within soil type. Potential contributing factors included types and amounts of organic inputs, organic carbon content, and timing and amounts of water inputs. Of these, both soil water content and organic carbon availability were highly correlated with observed differences in composition. We examined how organic carbon amendment (compost, vetch, or no amendment) and water additions (from air dry to flooded) affect microbial community composition. Using canonical correspondence analysis of phospholipid fatty acid data, we determined flooded, carbon-amended (+C) microcosm samples were distinctly different from other +C samples and unamended (-C) samples. Although flooding without organic carbon addition influenced composition some, organic carbon addition was necessary to substantially alter community composition. Organic carbon availability had the same general effects on microbial communities regardless of whether it was compost or vetch in origin. In addition, flooded samples, regardless of organic carbon inputs, had significantly lower ratios of fungal to bacterial biomarkers, whereas under drier conditions and increased organic carbon availability the microbial communities had higher proportions of fungal biomass. When comparing field and microcosm soil, flooded +C microcosm samples were most similar to field-collected rice soil, whereas all other treatments were more similar to field-collected tomato soil. Overall, manipulating water and carbon content selected for microbial communities similar to those observed when the same factors were manipulated at the field scale.
15694278	Carbohydrate contents varied with position in a leaf sheath, and differed between the flag leaf sheath and the second leaf sheath below the flag leaf (-2 leaf sheath) in rice (Oryza sativa L.). In the -2 leaf sheath before heading, light microscopy revealed differences in the distribution of starch granules depending on position. Leaf sheaths were divided into several parts, and the contents of carbohydrates (starch, sucrose, and hexoses) were measured in each part. Before heading, the content of accumulated starch increased linearly from the top to the bottom in -2 leaf sheaths (r2=0.99, P<0.001), as did the contents of accumulated sucrose and hexoses in flag leaf sheaths (r2=0.94, P<0.01). In flag leaf sheaths, the relative content of sucrose synthase (SuS), which plays a central role in the degradation of sucrose into hexoses, increased from the top to the bottom, consistent with hexose contents. After heading, the accumulated carbohydrates were dramatically decreased. In -2 leaf sheaths, the activity of alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1), the rate-limiting step in starch degradation, was consistent with the degree of starch degradation, but in flag leaf sheaths with little starch before heading. These results show that carbohydrate contents differ, depending on the position in a leaf sheath. In addition, there were big differences in leaf contents between flag leaf sheaths and -2 leaf sheaths.
15694283	The tertiary structure of a maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) non-symbiotic hemoglobin (Hbm) was modeled using computer tools and the known tertiary structure of rice Hb1 as a template. This method was tested by predicting the tertiary structure of soybean leghemoglobin a (Lba) using rice Hb1 as a template. The tertiary structures of the predicted and native Lba were similar, indicating that our computer methods could reliably predict the tertiary structures of plant Hbs. We next predicted the tertiary structure of Hbm. Hbm appears to have a long pre-helix A and a large CD-loop. The positions of the distal and proximal His are identical in Hbm and rice Hb1, which suggests that heme-Fe is hexacoordinate in Hbm and that the kinetic properties of Hbm and rice Hb1 are expected to be very similar, i.e. that Hbm has a high O2-affinity. Thermostability analysis showed that Hbm CD-loop is unstable and may provide mobility to amino acids located at the heme pocket for both ligand binding and stabilization and heme-Fe coordination. Analysis of the C-terminal half of Hbm showed the existence of a pocket-like region (the N/C cavity) where interactions with organic molecules or proteins could be possible. Lys K94 protrudes into the N/C cavity, suggesting that K94 may sense the binding of molecules to the N/C cavity. Thus, it is likely that the instability of the CD-loop and the possibility of binding molecules to the N/C cavity are essential for positioning amino acids in the heme pocket and in regulating Hbm activity and function.
15695430	Biphasic generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by N-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor in rice cells was associated with the activation of phopholipase C (PLC) and phospholipase D (PLD). The activation of both enzymes was observed for the first phase of ROS generation, but only the activation of PLD was evident for the second response. Activation of PLD was associated with its recruitment to the membrane. Enzymatic products of these phospholipases, diacylglycerol (DG) and phosphatidic acid (PA), could induce ROS generation by themselves. Moreover, the addition of these lipids compensated the inhibition of the second phase of ROS generation by cycloheximide, indicating the involvement of the synthesis of PLD or related proteins in the second phase of ROS generation. DG and PA also induced the expression of elicitor-responsive genes in the absence of the elicitor. They could not induce phytoalexin biosynthesis by themselves but greatly enhanced the elicitor-induced phytoalexin accumulation. Further, the inhibition of PLD by 1-butanol inhibited the elicitor-induced phytoalexin accumulation, indicating the involvement of PLD and its reaction product, PA, in the induction of phytoalexin biosynthesis. These results indicated the importance of phospholipid signaling, especially by PLD and its product PA, in plant defense responses.
15695435	In plants, calcium acts as a universal second messenger in various signal transduction pathways. The plant-specific calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) play important roles regulating downstream components of calcium signaling. We conducted a genome-wide analysis of rice CDPKs and identified 29 CDPK genes and eight closely related kinase genes, including five CDPK-related kinases (CRKs), one calcium and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CCaMK) and two phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) carboxylase kinase-related kinases (PEPRKs). The mRNA splicing sites of the rice CDPKs, CRKs and PEPRKs (but not OsCCaMK) are highly conserved, suggesting that these kinases are derived from a common ancestor. RNA gel blot analyses revealed that the majority of rice CDPK genes exhibited tissue-specific expression. Expression of OsCPK9 was elevated in seedlings infected by rice blast, indicating that this gene plays an important role in signaling in response to rice blast treatment. Our genomic and bioinformatic analyses will provide an important foundation for further functional dissection of the rice CDPK gene family.
15695448	The profile of aromatic metabolites in calli was compared between wild-type rice (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare) and tryptophan-overproducing transgenic rice lines that express a gene (OASA1D) for a feedback-insensitive alpha subunit of anthranilate synthase. Metabolic profiling by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with photodiode array detection of ultraviolet absorbance revealed a total of 71 peaks in both wild-type and transgenic calli. Only a limited effect on the pattern of major aromatic compounds was observed in tryptophan-accumulating transgenic rice lines, with the exception of an approximately 80-fold increase in the amount of tryptophan. Expression of OASA1D induced relatively small changes in several minor metabolites. One of the minor metabolites whose abundance was increased by OASA1D expression was purified and identified as a previously unknown indole-alkaloid glucoside. The levels of free and conjugated forms of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), a plant hormone derived from the tryptophan biosynthetic pathway, were determined separately by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The amounts of both free IAA and its conjugates were increased in the transgenic calli, suggesting that the activity of anthranilate synthase or the concentration of tryptophan (or both) is an important determinant of IAA biosynthesis.
15695453	It is widely accepted that green plants evolved the capacity to synthesize the highly organized branched alpha-polyglucan amylopectin with tandem-cluster structure, whereas animals and bacteria continued to produce random branched glycogen. Although most previous studies documented that cyanobacteria accumulate glycogen, the present study shows explicitly that some cyanobacteria such as Cyanobacterium sp. MBIC10216, Myxosarcina burmensis and Synechococcus sp. BG043511 had distinct alpha-polyglucans, which were designated as semi-amylopectin. The semi-amylopectin was intermediate between rice amylopectin and typical cyanobacterial glycogen in terms of chain length distribution, molecular size and length of the most abundant alpha-1,4-chain. It was also found that Cyanobacterium sp. MBIC10216 had no amylose-type component in its alpha-polyglucans. The evolutionary aspect of the structure of alpha-polyglucan is discussed in relation to the phylogenetic evolutionary tree of 16S rRNA sequences of cyanobacteria.
15695461	We used site-directed mutagenesis to engineer two constitutively active forms of the alpha subunit of a rice heterotrimeric G protein. The recombinant proteins produced from these novel cDNAs had GTP-binding activity but no GTPase activity. A chimeric gene for a constitutively active form of the alpha subunit was introduced into the rice mutant d1, which is defective for the alpha-subunit gene. All the transformants essentially showed a wild-type phenotype compared with normal cultivars, although seed sizes were substantially increased and internode lengths also showed some increase.
15695469	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a typical silicon (Si)-accumulating plant, but the mechanism responsible for the translocation from the root to the shoot is poorly understood. In this study, the form of Si in xylem sap was identified by (29)Si-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. In rice (cv. Oochikara) cultured in a monosilicic acid solution containing 0.5 mM Si, the Si concentration in the xylem reached 6 mM within 30 min. In the (29)Si-NMR spectra of the xylem sap, only one signal was observed at a chemical shift of -72.6 ppm, which is consistent with that of monosilicic acid. A (1)H-NMR study of xylem sap did not show any significant difference between the wild-type rice and mutant rice defective in Si uptake, and the components of the xylem sap were not affected by the Si supply. The Si concentration in the xylem sap in vitro decreased from an initial 18 mM to 2.6 mM with time. Addition of xylem sap to a solution containing 8 mM Si did not prevent the polymerization of silicic acid. All these results indicate that Si is translocated in the form of monosilicic acid through the xylem and that the concentration of monosilicic acid is high in the xylem only transiently.
15695850	Instrumental neutron activation (INAA) with k0 standardization has been used to determine the concentration levels of a variety of major and trace elements (Al, As, Br, Cd, Cl, Co, Cr, Cs, Cu, Fe, Hg, K, La, Mg, Mn, Mo, Na, Rb, Sc, Se, and Zn) in rice grains (raw and parboiled) and in rice flour collected from local markets in Sri Lanka. In addition, the energy-dispersive X-ray fluorescence (EDXRF) analysis has been used to determine the three elements Ca, P, and S in powdered samples. To evaluate and assure the accuracy and precision of the k0 standardization method, the IAEA standard reference material V-8 rye flour was analyzed. The results obtained in the present investigation were compared with the results reported from other countries. All of the elements detected in the rice matrices from Sri Lanka were very low in concentration or within normal limits for food plants. Approximate daily dietary intakes of the individual elements supplied through rice were calculated and compared with the available literature values of daily allowances.
15697772	Using the Riemannian geometric approach to Hamiltonian systems, we show that the empirical indicator of chaos proposed by Kosloff and Rice [J. Chem. Phys. 74, 1947 (1981)], an improved version of the well-known Toda-Brumer criterion, is equivalent to sectional curvature of the Jacobi equation when the Eisenhart metric is chosen for the Riemannian manifold. Further, we present a relation among the sectional curvature, the Lyapunov exponents, and the Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy. By using this relation, the empirical indicator by Kosloff and Rice, which is local, can be used as a global indicator of chaos.
15698684	Cereals are frequently infested by mycotoxin-producing fungi such as Gibberella zeae. G. zeae produces sexual spores (ascospores, dispersed by wind) and asexual spores (macroconidia, dispersed by rain droplets) to infect host plants. The production of the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON) and the germination of ascospores and macroconidia of G. zeae were studied at 20 degrees C in relation to relative humidity (RH). The DON contents of wheat heads and autoclaved rice grain samples, artificially inoculated with ascospore or macroconidia suspensions of equal spore density, were determined at 35 days after inoculation by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The average DON production 35 days after inoculation was much lower on rice (3.95+/-1.34 mg kg(-1)) than on wheat heads (302.30+/-57.46 mg kg(-1)). Macroconidia inoculi produced more DON than ascospore inoculi at relative humidities >90%, but less DON between 53% and 80% RH. At RH < or = 53%, no significant differences in DON production were observed between macroconidia and ascospore inoculi. DON production increased with RH irrespective of spore type. Germination of ascospores and macroconidia was monitored during incubation above six constant humidity solutions ranging from 30% to 93% RH. Ascospores only required a RH > or = 53%, whereas macroconidia required RH of > or = 80% for germination. The different humidity requirements of the two spore types for germination are discussed as a potential reason for the differential DON production of ascospore and macroconidia inoculi in relation to humidity. The results indicate that DON contamination levels partly dependent upon the interaction of spore type and RH and may confer an ecological advantage to G. zeae over other Fusarium head blight pathogens.
15699236	It is not known whether daily consumption of vitamin A-containing foods is efficacious for treating nightblindness. We assessed the effect of supplementation with vitamin A from food or synthetic sources on dark adaptation and plasma retinol concentrations in nightblind pregnant Nepali women. Nightblind pregnant women were randomly assigned to 1 of 6 treatment groups to receive 6 d/wk for 6 wk either 850 microg retinol equivalents/d as retinyl palmitate, vitamin A-fortified rice, goat liver, amaranth leaves, or carrots or 2000 microg retinol equivalents/d as retinyl palmitate. Dark adaptation was assessed weekly by using the pupillary threshold (PT) test; plasma retinol concentrations were measured before and after the intervention. These outcomes were also assessed in a comparison group of nonnightblind pregnant women. In the nightblind women, the mean PT improved significantly (P<0.0001) from -0.71+/-0.04 to -1.42+/-0.02 log cd/m2, and the final mean PT did not differ significantly from that in the nonnightblind women (-1.43+/-0.04; P=0.55). Improvement in dark adaptation was greater in the liver group than in the vitamin A-fortified rice group (P<0.02). Plasma retinol concentrations increased significantly (P<0.0001) from 0.95+/-0.05 to 1.07+/-0.05 micromol/L. The plasma retinol response was greater in the higher-dose capsule and liver groups than in the vegetable groups and significantly greater in the liver group than in the vitamin A-fortified rice group (both: P<0.05). Improvement in dark adaptation did not differ significantly between women who received vitamin A as liver, amaranth leaves, carrots, or retinyl palmitate.
15700421	Six full-length gene transcripts ZmNHX1-6 from Zea mays L. that were homologous to tonoplast-associated Na+/H+ antiporter were identified. The deduced transcripts code 538-545 amino acids and share a high homology with those of putative tonoplast-associated Na+/H+ antiporters of higher plants, ranging from 78% homology with that of Arabidopsis thaliana (AtNHX1) to 63% with that of tomato (LeNHX1). On the other hand, the homology of the identified transcripts with those of plasma membrane or mitochondrial membrane-associated Na+/H+ antiporters was low. An amiloride-binding site in transmembrane domain M4 was predicted. The phylogenetic analysis grouped the six isoforms into two groups. ZmNHX1,2,6 form one group together with Arabidopsis AtNHX1,2, rice OsNHX and wheat TaNHX2. The second group, ZmNHX3-5, clusters with Arabidopsis AtNHX4-6 and tomato LeNHX2. The expression of ZmNHX isoforms at the mRNA Level showed an organ and salt-specific pattern. In addition, a genotype-specific expression pattern of the ZmNHX isoforms was detected. One genotype was a maize inbred line with high Na+ exclusion at the root surface and the level of xylem parenchyma. For the root tissue of this inbred line, a linear response of ZmNHX to NaCl concentrations in root medium ranging from 1 to 100 mM was detected using real-time PCR. Conversely, there was no salt response of ZmNHX for the shoot of the same plant. No salt response of ZmNHX was detected for maize F1 hybrid Pioneer 3906 with moderate Na+ exclusion. The relationship of the expression of ZmNHX with salt resistance of maize is discussed.
15700463	A method has been developed for the determination of 6'-O-feruloylsucrose, 6'-O-sinapoylsucrose, ferulic acid, sinapinic acid, p-coumaric acid, chlorogenic (3-caffeoylquinic) acid, caffeic acid, protocatechuic acid, hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, and syringic acid in rice. The rice samples were extracted with 70% ethanol, filtered, and defatted. The defatted aqueous solution was subjected to solid-phase extraction using a C18 silica gel cartridge; no analyte was lost in this procedure. The 70% acidic methanol elution was analyzed directly by HPLC and HPLC-ESI-MS. Phenolic compounds were separated with a C18 reversed-phase column by gradient elution using 0.025% trifluoroacetic acid in purified water (A)--acetonitrile (B) (0 min, 5% B; 5 min, 9% B; 15 min, 9% B; 22 min, 11% B; and 38 min, 18% B) as the mobile phase at a flow rate of 0.8 ml/min. Detection limits ranged from 0.10 to 0.35 ng per injection (5 microl). Relative standard deviations of 0.22-3.95% and recoveries of 99-108% were obtained for simultaneous determination of these phenolic compounds. This method was applied to analysis of phenolic compounds in brown rice and germinated brown rice soaked in 32 degrees C water for varying durations.
15701658	In rice, caryopses located at the base of the panicle have a lower growth rate than those at the tip of the panicle. The former and latter types of caryopses are called inferior and superior caryopses, respectively. Taking the different growth rate into consideration, sugar status and the expression of genes encoding carbohydrate-metabolizing enzymes in inferior caryopses were compared with those in superior caryopses. During the first 5 d after flowering, superior caryopses elongated rapidly, but inferior caryopses did not. At this phase, inferior caryopses had a low ratio of hexose to sucrose, high activity of acid invertase and the absence of the expression of the genes encoding the above enzymes except for two isoforms of cell wall invertase, OsCIN4 and INV1, in comparison with superior caryopses. At the start of caryopsis elongation in both superior and inferior caryopses, the hexose/sucrose ratio increased accompanied by gene expression of vacuolar invertase (INV3), sucrose synthase (RSus1) and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGP-L2: D50317). Furthermore, the genes related to endospermal starch accumulation were expressed highly with the decrease in the hexose/sucrose ratio after its peak. Based on the comparison of superior and inferior caryopses, the possible mechanism of grain filling in rice is discussed.
15701659
15701660	Gossypium is an economically important, globally distributed taxon comprising more than 50 species. DNA content estimates from about half of the species indicate over a 3-fold variation exists. However, the nine DNA content estimates for G. hirsutum reveal over a 2-fold difference for this species alone. Recent reports have shown that several plant compounds can bias DNA content estimates obtained by commonly used methods. The purpose of this research was to examine the standardization procedures used for DNA content determinations with flow cytometry as applied to Gossypium, and generate revised DNA content estimates for all available Gossypium species using best-standard practices. Flow cytometry was used to measure fluorescence of isolated Gossypium nuclei stained with propidium iodide. Fluorescence values were converted to DNA content estimates based on the nuclear fluorescence of standard genotypes of barley, corn and rice. Various combinations of nuclei preparations relative to the standards were evaluated for their influence on the estimates. Both external standardization and internal standardization with Oryza sativa 'IR36' yielded statistically similar DNA content estimates for Gossypium. Internal standardization with Hordeum vulgare 'Sultan' resulted in a high estimate of DNA content. Nuclear DNA content estimates were generated for 37 Gossypium species using external standardization. Estimates of ancestral genome sizes reveal that both increases and decreases in nuclear DNA content have occurred. Variation in intraspecific and intragenomic DNA content was low, and the allopolyploid AD-genome size was nearly the additive of its progenitor genomes. Due to unknown factors, internal standardization with H. vulgare 'Sultan' may not be appropriate for DNA content determinations of Gossypium. The current DNA content estimates support accepted cytogenetic divisions of the genus. Gossypium is a genus that exhibits genome constancy both through speciation within genomic groups and allopolyploidization.
15702539	A triple mutant strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae lacking its own Na+-ATPases and Na+/H+ antiporters (enal-4delta nha1delta nhx1delta) was used for the expression of the Oryza sativa NHX1 gene encoding a putative vacuolar Na+/H+ exchanger. Upon expression in yeast cells, the OsNhx 1p is not a transport system specific only for sodium cations but it has a broad substrate specificity for at least four alkali metal cations (Na+, Li+, K+ and Rb+) and is able to substitute for the endogenous yeast ScNhx1 antiporter. Its activity contributes to sequestration of alkali metal cations in intracellular vesicles.
15702551	A total of 43 patients, 11 males and 32 females, with paronychia of the fingernails were examined for the presence of Candida spp. The yeast species isolated were identified using standard laboratory methods, including germ-tube production, morphology on rice agar with Tween 80, and mainly fermentation and assimilation of saccharides. In the male group, two Candida species were detected: C. albicans as the dominant species in 9 patients and C. parapsilosis in 2 cases. Similarly, C. albicans was the prevalent species also in females (n = 17); other Candida species detected were C. parapsilosis (n = 7), C. tropicalis (5) and C. krusei (3). In addition to the genus Candida, the following anaerobic and aerobic microorganisms were isolated from patients of both groups: Fusobacterium spp., Bacteroides spp., Staphylococcus aureus, alpha-hemolytic streptococci, group A beta-hemolytic streptococci, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Neisseria spp. and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
15702553	Mycological analysis of swabs and scraping samples from the external ear canals of 40 patients with clinically diagnosed otomycosis (10 neonates, 30 adults) revealed the presence of fungi as etiological agents. They were investigated microscopically using 20 % potassium hydroxide, and by cultivation on Sabouraud's glucose agar. The Candida species were identified using the germ-tube test, micromorphology observations of colonies on rice agar, and particularly by the commercial kit AUXAcolor. The following Candida species were identified in the aural material examined: C. albicans (n = 21; 52.5 %), C. parapsilosis (11; 27.5), C. tropicalis (3; 7.5), C. krusei (3; 7.5), C. guilliermondii (2; 5.0). The above yeasts were present in samples together with Staphylococcus epidermidis (31), S. aureus (16), alpha-hemolytic streptococci (14), Neisseria spp. (14), Proteus mirabilis (3), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (3), Escherichia coli (1) and Haemophilus influenzae (1). The most frequent predisposing factors for otomycosis were swimming in public pools and/or bath, spa and diabetes mellitus.
15703040	Tos17 is a copia-like endogenous retrotransposon of rice, which can be activated by various stresses such as tissue culture and alien DNA introgression. To confirm element mobilization by introgression and to study possible structural and epigenetic effects of Tos17 insertion on its target sequences, we isolated all flanking regions of Tos17 in an introgressed rice line (Tong35) that contains minute amount of genomic DNA from wild rice (Zizania latifolia). It was found that there has been apparent but limited mobilization of Tos17 in this introgression line, as being reflected by increased but stable copy number of the element in progeny of the line. Three of the five activated copies of the element have transposed into genes. Based on sequence analysis and Southern blot hybridization with several double-enzyme digests, no structural change in Tos17 could be inferred in the introgression line. Cytosine methylation status at all seven CCGG sites within Tos17 was also identical between the introgression line and its rice parent (Matsumae)-all sites being heavily methylated. In contrast, changes in structure and cytosine methylation patterns were detected in one of the three low-copy genomic regions that flank newly transposed Tos17, and all changes are stably inherited through selfed generations.
15703064	We used enhancer trapping with the GAL4 transcriptional activator from yeast to obtain spatial control of transgene expression in all organs of the model monocotyledonous species rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). Our T-DNA enhancer trapping cassette consisted of two principle components: (1) the minimal promoter-equipped gal4 gene placed adjacent to the right border, and (2) the green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) fused to the upstream activation sequence element (UAS) to which GAL4 binds and activates expression, so that gfp expression corresponds to gal4 expression. Agrobacterium-mediated integration of the cassette into the rice genome often brings the gal4 gene under transcriptional control of local genomic enhancers and promoters, resulting in gal4/gfp expression patterns ranging in specificity from single-cell types to constitutive expression. We produced more than 13 000 enhancer trap lines with this cassette and screened T(0) adult plants (1982 lines), T(1) seed (2684 lines) and T(1) seedlings (2667 lines) for gfp expression. Approximately 30% of the lines produced GFP, and we identified lines with gfp expression in specific cell types of all major organs of the rice plant. Subsequently, using the GUS reporter gene (uidA), we demonstrated that UAS:geneX constructs can be transactivated in specific cell types where gal4 and gfp are expressed, thus providing an excellent system for the manipulation of gene expression and physiological function in specific cell types of rice.
15703878	Conidia of Beauveria bassiana CS-1, which have the potential for the control of the diamondback moth (Plutella xylostella), were produced by solid-state fermentation (SSF) using a packed-bed bioreactor with rice straw and wheat bran. As the packing density and the bed height were increased, the production of conidia decreased. In a packed-bed bioreactor under no aeration and no addition of polypropylene (PP) foam (control), the total average of conidia was 4.9 x 10(8) g-1. The production of conidia was affected more by the addition of PP foam as an inert support than forced aeration and was approx. 23 times higher than that of the control. The total average of conidia produced by B. bassiana was 1.1-1.2 x 10(10) g-1 .
15703945	OsMADS4, a rice MADS-box gene, is a member of the GLO/PI family that specifies the identity of petals and stamens in combination with other MADS-box genes. We report here the ectopic expression of OsMADS4 fused to the CaMV 35S promoter in tobacco plants. Transgenic plants carrying the CaMV 35S promoter::OsMADS4 construct generated mutant flowers with a mosaic carpel, in which the tissue around the nectary was elongated and the styles reduced. The fruits were distorted, but viable seeds did develop. These phenotypes mimicked those of transgenic tobacco plants that ectopically express Antirrhinum GLO. However, unlike GLO, OsMADS4 did not cause any homeotic change in the first whorl of the transgenic flowers. These results suggest that the functional role of OsMADS4 in the outer whorls has diverged from that of its dicot counterparts.
15704288	A basidiomycetous yeast strain RO-203, which formed orange-red colored colonies, was isolated from a sample of paddy rice crops at the ripe stage in Japan. Morphological, physiological and biochemical characterization indicated that this strain belonged to the genus Rhodotorula. Molecular taxonomic analysis based on the 26S rDNA D1/D2 domain and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region sequences showed that RO-203 represents an undescribed yeast species, for which the name Rhodotorula oryzae sp. nov. is proposed (type strain: AS 2.2363T = MAFF 516128T). The new species clustered in a branch together with Sakaguchia dacryoidea in phylogenetic trees based on the D1/D2 and ITS sequences. These two species differed by 2.3% and 12% nucleotide divergences in the D1/D2 and ITS regions, respectively.
15705235	In this study, we attempted to evaluate the effect of administration of a high quantity of red yeast rice on coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) synthesis in the tissues of ICR mice. Eighty-eight adult male ICR mice were housed and divided into control and experimental groups for red yeast rice treatment. Animals were gavaged with a low (1 g/kg body weight) or a high dose (5 g/kg body weight, approximately five times the typical recommended human dose) of red yeast rice dissolved in soyabean oil. After gavagement, animals of the control group were immediately killed; mice of the experimental groups (eight for each subgroup) were killed at different time intervals of 0.5, 1, 1.5, 4 and 24 h. The liver, heart and kidney were taken for analysis of monacolin K (liver only) and CoQ10 analysis. Liver and heart CoQ10 levels declined dramatically in both groups administered red yeast rice, especially in the high-dose group, within 30 min. After 24 h, the levels of hepatic and cardiac CoQ10 were still reduced. A similar trend was also observed in the heart, but the inhibitory effect began after 90 min. The higher dose of red yeast rice presented a greater suppressive effect than did the lower dose on tissue CoQ10 levels. In conclusion, acute red yeast rice gavage suppressed hepatic and cardiac CoQ10 levels in rodents; furthermore, the inhibitory effect was responsive to the doses administered.
15705954	Plastid DNA fragments are often found in the plant nuclear genome, and DNA transfer from plastids to the nucleus is ongoing. However, successful gene transfer is rare. What happens to compensate for this? To address this question, we analyzed nuclear-localized plastid DNA (nupDNA) fragments throughout the rice (Oryza sativa ssp japonica) genome, with respect to their age, size, structure, and integration sites on chromosomes. The divergence of nupDNA sequences from the sequence of the present plastid genome strongly suggests that plastid DNA has been transferred repeatedly to the nucleus in rice. Age distribution profiles of the nupDNA population, together with the size and structural characteristics of each fragment, revealed that once plastid DNAs are integrated into the nuclear genome, they are rapidly fragmented and vigorously shuffled, and surprisingly, 80% of them are eliminated from the nuclear genome within a million years. Large nupDNA fragments preferentially localize to the pericentromeric region of the chromosomes, where integration and elimination frequencies are markedly higher. These data indicate that the plant nuclear genome is in equilibrium between frequent integration and rapid elimination of the chloroplast genome and that the pericentromeric regions play a significant role in facilitating the chloroplast-nuclear DNA flux.
15705958	We have characterized a rice (Oryza sativa) dwarf mutant, dwarf11 (d11), that bears seeds of reduced length. To understand the mechanism by which seed length is regulated, the D11 gene was isolated by a map-based cloning method. The gene was found to encode a novel cytochrome P450 (CYP724B1), which showed homology to enzymes involved in brassinosteroid (BR) biosynthesis. The dwarf phenotype of d11 mutants was restored by the application of the brassinolide (BL). Compared with wild-type plants, the aberrant D11 mRNA accumulated at higher levels in d11 mutants and was dramatically reduced by treatment with BL, implying that the gene is feedback-regulated by BL. Precise determination of the defective step(s) in BR synthesis in d11 mutants proved intractable because of tissue specificity and the complex control of BR accumulation in plants. However, 6-deoxotyphasterol (6-DeoxoTY) and typhasterol (TY), but not any upstream intermediates before these compounds, effectively restored BR response in d11 mutants in a lamina joint bending assay. Multiple lines of evidence together suggest that the D11/CYP724B1 gene plays a role in BR synthesis and may be involved in the supply of 6-DeoxoTY and TY in the BR biosynthesis network in rice.
15706949	The separation behaviors of organochlorine pesticides, pyrethriod pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyl congeners (PCBs) and unpolished rice matrixes were systematically investigated with gel permeation chromatography (GPC) because of its outstanding capability in removing lipid and pigments from sample solutions. A separation method was proposed for the quantitative determination of 35 pesticides and PCBs in unpolished rice by GPC and gas chromatography simultaneously. Samples were extracted with ethyl acetate, purified by GPC, and then determined by gas chromatography and electron capture detection (GC-ECD). With external standard method, the recoveries of 3 standard addition levels of low, medium, high concentrations were 70.1% - 107.4%, 70.3% - 109.9%, 70.8% - 109.5%, respectively with relative standard deviations from 2.3% to 13.3%. The detection limits were 0.07 microg/kg for organochlorines and PCBs, and 0.44 microg/kg for pyrethriods.
15707334	By the method of high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), this paper studied the contents of 13 secondary compounds from 130 samples of 26 rice varieties resistant to brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens biotype II. A prediction model was established through principal component analysis and multiple regression analysis: Y = 3.4593 - 0.02491 X1 + 0.08475 X2 - 0.04227 X8 + 0.1174 X12. The relationships between the BPH-resistant level of rice varieties and the area values of chromatographic peaks were significant (r2 = 0.84, P < 0.01). The results demonstrated that Peak 1, Peak 2, Peak 8 and Peak 12 were the major secondary compounds affecting the resistance to BPH biotype II, which suggested that the BPH resistance of the varieties came from the action of several secondary compounds that varied in contribution to the resistance.
15707839	In all living organisms transmembrane (TM) proteins are crucially involved in many physiological processes and constitute 20-30% of the proteome. An important class of TM proteins are transporters that interconnect biochemical pathways across the plasma membrane and intracellular membranes, e.g. the mitochondrial membranes and chloroplast envelope membranes. In recent years, bioinformatical tools to predict TM domains and subcellular localization were developed and used to analyze the first complete plant genomes of Arabidopsis and rice. This review focuses on plant TM proteome databases that compile topology and intracellular targeting predictions and different kinds of experimental data. In addition, other web sites are discussed that contribute useful experimental and/or bioinformatical data.
15707841	We isolated and characterized a histidine kinase gene (HIK1) from the rice blast fungus, Pyricularia oryzae (Magnaporthe grisea). The deduced amino acid sequence of HIK1 showed highest similarity (85.7%) to a hybrid-type histidine kinase, Os-1/Nik-1 of Neurospora crassa. Disruption of HIK1 caused no defect in cell growth on normal media and in pathogenicity to rice plants. The Deltahik1 strain acquired resistance to three groups of fungicides (phenylpyrroles, dicarboximides, and aromatic hydrocarbons) similar to os-1 mutants of N. crassa. The Deltahik1 strain showed increased sensitivity to high concentrations of sugars although its salt sensitivity was not elevated, suggesting that the rice blast fungus can distinguish osmostresses caused by high sugar concentrations and high salt concentrations. In contrast, os-1 mutants of N. crassa are sensitive to high concentrations of both salts and sugars. These findings suggest that P. oryzae and N. crassa partially differ in their os (osmosensitive) signal transduction pathway.
15707867	The biopesticide Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis (B.t.i.) is highly toxic to the larvae of Chironomus tepperi, an important pest of aerially sown rice in southern Australia. In this study, all of the known Cry genes and the Cyt1A gene from B.t.i. were expressed and tested for individual toxicity against fourth instar C. tepperi larvae. Possible synergism between toxins in two component mixtures involving all toxins except Cry10A was also evaluated. Of the Cry toxins, only Cry11A and Cry4B displayed substantial toxicity; however, both were 10- to 20-fold less toxic than the parental B.t.i. strain. The only detected synergy was between the mildly toxic Cry4A and Cyt1A toxins. In direct contrast to previous studies with mosquitoes, mixtures of Cry11A/Cry4B and Cry11A/Cyt1A were mildly antagonistic. The activity of Cry11A and Cry4B is sufficient to justify investigation as to whether their expression in transgenic rice plants could provide control of C. tepperi larvae.
15708660	A direct, extraction-free spectrophotometric assay was developed for determination of angiotensin I-converting enzyme activity (ACE) in the presence of ACE inhibitors using hippuryl-l-histidyl-l-leucine (HHL) as the ACE-specific substrate. This method relies on previously published spectrophotometric determination of hippuric acid (HA) content in the urine, the method of which was based on the specific colorimetric reaction of HA with benzene sulfonyl chloride (BSC) in the presence of quinoline. The proposed ACE inhibition assay was applied to the measurement of the ACE inhibitory activity of Captopril. IC(50) value of Captopril corresponded well with literature data. Furthermore, Alcalase hydrolysates of mung bean and rice protein isolates were assessed for ACE inhibitory activity by this method. These two hydrolysates showed high ACE inhibitory activity. This method proposed here was shown to be direct, sensitive, accurate, reproducible, and less expensive without separation of HA from ACE reaction mixture, and can be used for the screening of ACE inhibitory peptides derived from food proteins.
15709367	A novel, plant growth-promoting bacterium Delftia tsuruhatensis, strain HR4, was isolated from the rhizoplane of rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. Yueguang) in North China. In vitro antagonistic assay showed this strain could suppress the growth of various plant pathogens effectively, especially the three main rice pathogens (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, Rhizoctonia solani and Pyricularia oryzae Cavara). Treated with strain HR4 culture, rice blast, rice bacterial blight and rice sheath blight for cv. Yuefu and cv. Nonghu 6 were evidently controlled in the greenhouse. Strain HR4 also showed a high nitrogen-fixing activity in N-free Döbereiner culture medium. The acetylene reduction activity and 15N2-fixing activity (N2FA) were 13.06 C2H4 nmolml(-1) h(-1) and 2.052 15Na.e.%, respectively. The nif gene was located in the chromosome of this strain. Based on phenotypic, physiological, biochemical and phylogenetic studies, strain HR4 could be classified as a member of D. tsuruhatensis. However, comparisons of characteristics with other known species of the genus Delftia suggested that strain HR4 was a novel dizotrophic PGPB strain.
15710395	Glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36) amide (GLP-1) is the most potent physiological insulinotropic hormone in humans. We produced large amounts of a GLP-1 analogue, [Ser8, Gln26, Asp34]-GLP-1, which is resistant to trypsin-digestion, as part of a chimeric rice seed storage protein, a 26 kDa globulin, in genetically modified rice seeds. Junction sites between GLP-1 analogue and globulin were replaced by tryptic cleavage sites. The highest level of GLP-1 analogue accumulation was approximately 20-50 microg per seed. We found that GLP-1 analogue derived from trypsin-digested genetically modified rice seeds stimulated insulin secretion from a mouse pancreatic beta-cell line, MIN6.
15711972	Mitochondrial genes for ribosomal proteins undergo relatively frequent transfer to the nucleus during plant evolution, and when migration is successful the mitochondrial copy becomes redundant and can be lost. We have examined the status of the mitochondrial rps19 gene for ribosomal protein S19 in closely related cereals. In oat, the mitochondrial rps19 reading frame is blocked by a premature termination codon and lacks abundant transcripts, whereas in the mitochondria of wheat and rye rps19 is a 5'-truncated pseudogene which is co-transcribed with the downstream nad4L gene. In barley and maize, rps19 sequences are completely absent from the mitochondrion. All five of these cereals differ from rice, in which an intact, transcriptionally active mitochondrial rps19 gene is found, and this is preceded by rpl2 in an organization reminiscent of that seen in bacteria. Based on EST sequence data for maize, barley and wheat, it can be inferred that a functional rps19 gene was transferred to the nucleus prior to the divergence of the maize and rice lineages (approximately 50 million years ago), and the present-day nuclear copies encode an N-terminal sequence related to the mitochondrial targeting signal of Hsp70 (heat shock protein) in cereals. Subsequent evolutionary events have included independent losses of the mitochondrial copies in the barley and maize lineages. In the rice lineage, on the other hand, the nuclear copy was lost. This is reflected in the persistence of the mitochondrial rps19 after a period during which rps19 genes coexisted in both compartments. These observations illustrate the dynamic nature of the location and structure of genes for mitochondrial ribosomal proteins in flowering plants.
15712239	Of the numerous factors affecting rice yield, how solar radiation is transformed into biomass through rice leaves is the most important. We have analyzed proteomic changes in rice leaves collected from six different developing stages (vegetative to ripening). We studied protein expression profiles of rice leaves by running two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Differential protein expression among the six phases were analyzed by image analysis, which allowed the identification of 49 significantly different gel spots. The spots were further verified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry, in which 89.8% of them were confirmed to be rice proteins. Finally, we confirmed some of the interesting rice proteins by immunoblotting. Three major conclusions can be drawn from these experimental results. (i) Protein expression in rice leaves, at least for high or middle abundance proteins, is attenuated during growth (especially some chloroplast proteins). However, the change is slow and the expression profiles are relatively stable during rice development. (ii) Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO), a major protein in rice leaves, is expressed at constant levels at different growth stages. Interestingly, a high ratio of degradation of the RuBisCO large subunit was found in all samples. This was confirmed by two approaches, mass spectrometry and immunoblotting. The degraded fragments are similar to other digested products of RuBisCO mediated by free radials. (iii) The expression of antioxidant proteins such as superoxide dismutase and peroxidase decline at the early ripening stage.
15712891
15713008	Edible films made of agar (AG), cassava starch (CAS), normal rice starch (NRS), and waxy (glutinous) rice starch (WRS) were elaborated and tested for a potential use as edible packaging or coating. Their water vapor permeabilities (WVP) were comparable with those of most of the polysaccharide-based films and with some protein-based films. Depending on the environmental moisture pressure, the WVP of the films varies and remains constant when the relative humidity (RH) is >84%. Equilibrium sorption isotherms of these films have been measured; the Guggenheim-Anderson-de Boer (GAB) model was used to describe the sorption isotherm and contributed to a better knowledge of hydration properties. Surface hydrophobicity and wettability of these films were also investigated using the sessile drop contact angle method. The results obtained suggested the migration of the lipid fraction toward evaporation surface during film drying. Among these polysaccharide-based films, AG-based film and CAS-based film displayed more interesting mechanical properties: they are transparent, clear, homogeneous, flexible, and easily handled. NRS- and WRS-based films were relatively brittle and have a low tension resistance. Microstructure of film cross section was observed by environmental scanning electron microscopy to better understand the effect of the structure on the functional properties. The results suggest that AG-based film and CAS-based films, which show better functional properties, are promising systems to be used as food packaging or coating instead of NRS- and WRS-based films.
15713027	Changes in the taste of japonica, hybrid, and indica brown and milled rice, stored for 10 months at low (5 degrees C, 65-70% relative humidity) and room temperatures were observed by physicochemical analyses and a novel method using a taste sensing system. During storage, some properties increased or decreased while others were fairly constant. The main taste components of cooked rice such as sweetness (sucrose) and umami tastes (glutamic acid and aspartic acid) were reduced during storage, whereas glucose and fructose increased. The increase of fat acidity and consequent decrease of the pH value of the cooking solution may contribute to the off-taste of cooked stored rice. A taste sensing system with 10 lipid membrane sensors was also used to classify new and old rice samples using principal component analysis. Fresh and room temperature stored japonica and indica rice could be clearly distinguished; however, it was not possible to differentiate the samples stored at low temperature.
15713975	Studies suggest that the link between postprandial hyperglycaemia and cardiovascular risk in type 2 diabetes mellitus might be related to postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia and the increased levels of the highly atherogenic small and dense low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. In this study we therefore aimed to determine which of the three popular carbohydrate foods has the highest potential of increasing postprandial triglyceride levels in type 2 diabetic patients and in healthy non diabetic individuals. All subjects were studied on three different occasions seven days apart after an overnight fast. On each day of study, anthropometric indices were measured and after collecting fasting blood sample, subjects consumed bread, roti or rice within 10 min and water taken as wished. Subsequently, 7 ml of venous blood samples were collected at 60, 90, 120 and 150 min for insulin, glucose and lipids determinations. The diabetic and non diabetic healthy subjects had similar baseline body mass index, insulin, triglyceride, total and LDL-cholesterol. The mean percentage triglyceride increase after ingestion of the test foods was highest with bread and lowest with rice irrespective of diabetic status or ethnicity, and despite similar baseline triglyceride, insulin and body mass index levels, the diabetic patients of East Indian origin had comparatively higher incremental triglyceride levels for the three test foods than those of African origin. Contrary to anecdotal perception, the commercially prepared whole wheat bread has the highest propensity to induce hypertriglyceridaemia especially among diabetic patients of East Indian origin.
15715439	PeiAi64S, a photoperiod and thermo-sensitive genic male sterile, has been wildly applied to hybrid rice seed production in China, but its photoperiod-sensitivity gene for heading date in this sterile line was still unknown. This definitely limited the further use of this sterile line in breeding practice and re-production of hybrid seeds. To solve this problem, using heading time nearly isogenic lines EGO - EG7, ER - LR, T65 - T65m and six heading date QTL-isogenic lines, NIL (Hd1) - NIL (Hd6) with the genes of Nipponbare but Hd1 - Hd6 genes from Kasalath respectively, we performed a genetic analysis of PeiAi64S with special reference to photoperiod-sensitivity loci, in natural long days at Nanjing (32 degrees N) where the average day-length is about 14 h and in natural short days at Linshui county, Hainan province(18 degrees 29'N), where the average day-length is about 11.6 h during the course of rice growing respectively. The F1 and F2 generations from the crosses 'PeiAi64S x heading time nearly isogenic lines' were subjected to genetic analyses. Experimental results showed that PeiAi64S carries photoperiod-sensitivity allele gene E1 and E3 and dominant earliness gene Ef-1 in E1 and E3 and Ef-1 loci, respectively, and a photoperiod insensitivity allele Se-1 degrees in Se-1 locus. Meanwhile, the photoperiod-sensitivity gene E1 and photoperiod-insensitivity gene Se-1e in PeiAi64S were also identified by crossing with the NIL(Hd1) and NIL(Hd4). In addition, a recessive inhibitor for photoperiod-sensitive gene E1 or Se-1(n) and other modified photoperiod-sensitive genes: i-Se-1, E3, Hd3 (En-Se-1), Hd5 and Hd6, were identified in PeiAi64S by crossing with QTL nearly isogenic lines: NIL(Hd2), NIL (Hd3), NIL (Hd5) and NIL(Hd6), The results indicated that the genotype of PeiAi64S's heading date was: E1E1e2e2E3E3Se-1(e)Se-1(e)Ef-1 Ef-1 i-Se-1 i-Se-1.
15716031	The mitochondrial DNA of the rice frog, Fejervarya limnocharis (Amphibia, Anura), was obtained using long-and-accurate polymerase chain reaction (LA-PCR) combining with subcloning method. The complete nucleotide sequence (17,717 bp) of mitochondrial genome was determined subsequently. This mitochondrial genome is characterized by four distinctive features: the translocation of ND5 gene, a cluster of rearranged tRNA genes (tRNAThr, tRNAPro, tRNA(Leu CUN)), a tandem duplication of tRNAMet gene, and eight large 89-bp tandem repeats in the control region, as well as three short noncoding regions containing two repeated motifs existing in the gene cluster of ND5/tRNAThr/tRNAPro/tRNALeu/tRNAPhe. The tandem duplication of gene regions followed by deletions of supernumerary genes can be invoked to explain the shuffling of tRNAMet and a cluster of tRNA and ND5 genes, as observed in this study. Both ND5 gene translocation and tandem duplication of tRNAMet were first observed in the vertebrate mitochondrial genomes.
15716042	The cloning of hevein genes from Hevea brasiliensis was undertaken with the objective to isolate useful promoters to drive transgene expression in genetically engineered rubber tree. Four different full length genes were cloned by library screening and a fifth, a partial gene, by adaptor-anchored PCR. Sequence alignment revealed that hevein genes, although highly conserved in their transcribed region, diverged in two groups, with major differences in their promoter region, suggesting a more rapid evolution of the upstream regulatory functions of the genes than the downstream functions of their protein products. The promoter regions from two hevein genes representative of each group were isolated and analyzed in rice. Although both were functional, only the longest promoter sequence (PHev2.1) conferred a high level of expression to the transgene in various tissues of this heterologous host. It was in addition up-regulated by mechanical wounding and fungal infection in leaves. A number of potential cis-regulatory elements were identified in silico and are discussed in view of the expression profiles observed in rice.
15716045	During the course of evolution, the genome should have toned down various types of genomic noise, such as those that cause the unstable expression or gene silencing observed in transgenic organisms. We found a rice genomic segment where two genes, encoding 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPs) and ribosomal protein small subunit 20 (rps20), are located in a tail-to-tail orientation and separated by only 300 bp of spacer. It is possible that this kind of structure would give rise to unstable expression due to antisense RNA derived from the neighboring gene. We examined this possibility using Northern blot, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and 3' RACE analyses, but obtained no evidence for instability or antisense RNAs of these housekeeping genes. Comparison of the sequences in the corresponding regions among related rice species revealed a lower level of genetic divergence of both the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTRs) than of the other noncoding regions; in particular both of the boundaries between the 3'-UTRs and the spacer were markedly conserved. The conservation of both the terminal regions is most likely the result of purifying selection, implying a functional role for the strict termination of the transcription of these genes to prevent gene-silencing-related events.
15716503	Much research has been devoted to understanding the biology of plant-pathogen interactions. The extensive genetic analysis of disease resistance in rice, coupled with the sequenced genome and genomic resources, provides the opportunity to seek convergent evidence implicating specific chromosomal segments and genes in the control of resistance. Published data on quantitative and qualitative disease resistance in rice were synthesized to evaluate the distributions of and associations among resistance loci. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) for resistance to multiple diseases and qualitative resistance loci (R genes) were clustered in the rice genome. R genes and their analogs of the nucleotide binding site-leucine-rich repeat class and genes identified on the basis of differential representation in disease-related EST libraries were significantly associated with QTL. Chromosomal segments associated with broad-spectrum quantitative disease resistance (BS-QDR) were identified. These segments contained numerous positional candidate genes identified on the basis of a range of criteria, and groups of genes belonging to two defense-associated biochemical pathways were found to underlie one BS-QDR region. Genetic dissection of disease QTL confidence intervals is needed to reduce the number of positional candidate genes for further functional analysis. This study provides a framework for future investigations of disease resistance in rice and related crop species.
15717193	Using barley and wheat expressed sequence tags as well as rice genomic sequence and mapping information, we revisited the genomic region encompassing the self-incompatibility (SI) locus Z on rye chromosome 2RL applying a comparative approach. We were able to arrange 12 novel sequence-tagged site (STS) markers around Z, spanning a genetic distance of 32.3 cM, with the closest flanking markers mapping at a distance of 0.5 cM and 1.0 cM from Z, respectively, and one marker cosegregating with Z, in a testcross population of 204 progeny. Two overlapping rice bacterial artifical chromosomes (BACs), OSJNBa0070O11 and OSJNBa0010D21, were found to carry rice orthologs of the three rye STS markers from the 1.5-cM interval encompassing Z. The STS-marker orthologs on these rice BACs span less than 125,000 bp of the rice genome. The STS marker TC116908 cosegregated with Z in a mapping population and revealed a high degree of polymorphism among a random sample of rye plants of various origin. TC116908 was shown via Southern hybridization to correspond to gene no. 10 (OSJNBa0070O11.10) on rice BAC OSJNBa0070O11. Reverse transcription-PCR with a TC116908-specific primer pair resulted in the amplification of a fragment of the expected size from the rye pistil but not from leaf cDNA. OSJNBa0070O11.10 was found to show a highly significant sequence similarity to AtUBP22, a ubiquitin-specific protease (UBP). TC116908 likely represents a putative UBP gene that is specifically expressed in rye pistils and cosegregates with Z. Given that the ubiquitination of proteins is emerging as a general mechanism involved in different SI systems of plants, TC116908 appears to be a promising target for further investigation with respect to its relation to the SI system of the grasses.
15717229	Strains Paenibacillus sp. BP-23 and Bacillus sp. BP-7, previously isolated from soil from a rice field, secreted high levels of pectinase activity in media supplemented with pectin. Production of pectinases in strain Paenibacillus sp. BP-23 showed catabolite repression, while in Bacillus sp. BP-7 production of pectin degrading enzymes was not negatively affected by glucose. The two strains showed lyase activities as the predominant pectinases, while hydrolase activity was very low. Analysis of Paenibacillus sp. BP-23 in SDS-polyacrylamide gels and zymograms showed five pectinase activity bands. The strict requirement of Ca(2+) for lyase activity of the strain indicates that correspond to pectate lyases. For Bacillus sp. BP-7, zymograms showed four bands of different size. The strain showed a Ca(2+) requirement for lyase activity on pectate but not on pectin, indicating that the pectinolytic system of Bacillus sp. BP-7 is comprised of pectate lyases and pectin lyases. The results show differences in pectin degrading systems between the two aerobic sporogenous bacterial strains studied.
15719159	A reconnaissance soil geochemical and concomitant plant survey based on 318 soil (0-15 cm) and 122 plant samples was used for the assessment of heavy metal pollution of agricultural soils and crops of Thailand. Arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), cobalt (Co), chromium (Cr), copper (Cu), mercury (Hg), nickel (Ni), lead (Pb) and zinc (Zn) were determined in soils using aqua regia digestion, and in plants using nitric acid digestion. Organic carbon (C), pH, electrical conductivity (EC) and available phosphorus (P) were determined on the soil samples using appropriate procedures. Results indicated that concentrations of heavy metals varied widely among the different regions of Thailand. Regression analysis between the concentrations of metals in soil (aqua regia extractable) and edible plant parts indicated a small but positive relationship for Cd in all the plants sampled in the survey (R2 = 0.081, p < 0.001). There was also a positive relationship between soil and plant Cd concentrations in rice (R2 = 0.242, p < 0.010), and negative relationships for Zn in rice (R2 = 0.385, p < 0.001), and Cu (R2 = 0.355, p < 0.001) and Zn (R2 = 0.122, p < 0.026) in glutinous rice. Principal component analysis of the soil data suggested that concentrations of As, Co, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni and Pb were strongly correlated with concentrations of Al and Fe, which is suggestive of evidence of background variations due to changes in soil mineralogy. Thus, the evidence for widespread contamination of soils by these elements through agricultural activities is not strong. On the other hand, Cd and Zn were strongly correlated with organic matter and concentrations of available and aqua regia extractable P. This is attributed to input of contaminants in agricultural fertilisers and soil amendments (e.g. manures, composts).
15719212	A population of 96 doubled haploid lines (DHLs) was prepared from F1 plants of the hexaploid wheat cross Chinese Spring x SQ1 (a high abscisic acid-expressing breeding line) and was mapped with 567 RFLP, AFLP, SSR, morphological and biochemical markers covering all 21 chromosomes, with a total map length of 3,522 cM. Although the map lengths for each genome were very similar, the D genome had only half the markers of the other two genomes. The map was used to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for yield and yield components from a combination of 24 site x treatment x year combinations, including nutrient stress, drought stress and salt stress treatments. Although yield QTLs were widely distributed around the genome, 17 clusters of yield QTLs from five or more trials were identified: two on group 1 chromosomes, one each on group 2 and group 3, five on group 4, four on group 5, one on group 6 and three on group 7. The strongest yield QTL effects were on chromosomes 7AL and 7BL, due mainly to variation in grain numbers per ear. Three of the yield QTL clusters were largely site-specific, while four clusters were largely associated with one or other of the stress treatments. Three of the yield QTL clusters were coincident with the dwarfing gene Rht-B1 on 4BS and with the vernalisation genes Vrn-A1 on 5AL and Vrn-D1 on 5DL. Yields of each DHL were calculated for trial mean yields of 6 g plant(-1) and 2 g plant(-1) (equivalent to about 8 t ha(-1) and 2.5 t ha(-1), respectively), representing optimum and moderately stressed conditions. Analyses of these yield estimates using interval mapping confirmed the group-7 effects on yield and, at 2 g plant(-1), identified two additional major yield QTLs on chromosomes 1D and 5A. Many of the yield QTL clusters corresponded with QTLs already reported in wheat and, on the basis of comparative genetics, also in rice. The implications of these results for improving wheat yield stability are discussed.
15719990	Rice is the main crop in the subbasin of the fluvial lagoon system of Palizada River (FLSPR) in the state of Campeche, Mexico. The pesticides used to control pests of this crop mainly are carbofuran, chlorpyrifos, and glyphosate. Black-bellied whistling duck (Dendrocygna autumnalis) is an ecologically and economically important species in the area. This duck is consumed by local inhabitants throughout the year, despite its potential exposure to pesticides. Due to its feeding habits, abundance, and nutritional value, D. autumnalis is a good indicator of environmental contamination and a potential route of human exposure to organophosphate and carbamate pesticides. In this study, the brain cholinesterase (ChE) in the frontal cerebral cortex of autochthonous ducks was characterized. In addition, the potential of the three locally used pesticides and mixtures to inhibit ChE activity was investigated and the exposure of the wild duck population during intensive pesticide applications in rice fields was evaluated. We found that acetylcholinesterase (AChE) seems to be the predominant ChE form in the biological fraction analyzed. Carbofuran was the most potent ChE inhibitor of D. autumnalis brain ChE activity from the three pesticides analyzed. Cholinesterase inhibition after exposure to pesticide mixtures predominantly was due to carbofuran. A decrease (p < 0.05) in AChE activity (>30%) was apparent in wild ducks compared to reference ducks, with recovery of ChE inhibition in wild ducks occurring months later when no pesticides were applied in the field. Dendrocygna autumnalis brain ChE is a suitable parameter for inclusion in biomonitoring programs for both environmental protection and human safety.
15720080	During the hypersensitive response (HR), plants accumulate reactive oxygen species (ROS) that are likely generated at least in part by an NADPH oxidase similar to that found in mammalian neutrophils. An essential regulator of mammalian NADPH oxidase is the small GTP-binding protein Rac. To investigate whether Rac also regulates the pathogen-induced oxidative burst in plants, a dominant negative form of the rice OsRac1 gene was overexpressed in tobacco carrying the N resistance gene. Following infection with Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV), DN-OsRacl plants developed smaller lesions than wild-type plants, accumulated lower levels of lipid peroxidation products, and failed to activate expression of antioxidant genes. These results, combined with the demonstration that superoxide and hydrogen peroxide levels were reduced in DN-OsRacl tobacco developing a synchronous HR triggered by transient expression of the TMV p50 helicase domain or the Pto and AvrPto proteins, suggest that ROS production is impaired. The dominant negative effect of DN-OsRacl could be rescued by transiently overexpressing the wild-type OsRac1 protein. TMV-induced salicylic acid accumulation also was compromised in DN-OsRacl tobacco. Interestingly, while systemic acquired resistance to TMV was not impaired, nonhost resistance to Pseudomonas syringae pv. maculicola ES4326 was suppressed. Thus, the effect DN-OsRac1 expression exerts on the resistance signaling pathway appears to vary depending on the identity of the inoculated pathogen.
15720083	avrXa7 is a member of the avrBs3/pthA gene family. The gene is a critical type III effector in several strains of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (virulence activity), and in the presence of the Xa7 host gene for resistance, controls the elicitation of resistance in rice (avirulence activity). The ability of strains containing avrXa7 to adapt to the presence of Xa7 in the host population is dependent, in part, on the genetic plasticity of avrXa7. The potential for the conversion of avrXa7 to a virulence effector without Xa7-dependent elicitor activity was examined. Internal reorganization of avrXa7 by artificially deleting a portion of the central repetitive region resulted in gene pthXo4, which retained virulence activity and lost Xa7-dependent avirulence activity. Similarly, spontaneous rearrangements between repetitive regions of avrXa7 during bacterial culture gave rise to gene pthXo5, which also had virulence activity without Xa7-dependent avirulence activity. pthXo5 appeared to be the result of recombination between avrXa7 and a related gene in the genome. Loss of avirulence activity and retention of virulence activity also resulted from replacement of a portion of the C-terminal coding region of avrXa7 with the corresponding sequence from avrBs3. The results demonstrated the potential for a critical virulence effector to lose avirulence activity while retaining effector function. The results also demonstrated that features of both repetitive and nonrepetitive C-terminal regions of AvrXa7 are involved in avirulence specificity.
15720624	The present study aimed to investigate the effects of root surface iron plaque on the uptake kinetics of arsenite and arsenate by excised roots of rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings. The results demonstrated that the presence of iron plaque enhanced arsenite and decreased arsenate uptake. Arsenite and arsenate uptake kinetics were adequately fitted by the Michaelis-Menten function in the absence of plaque, but produced poor fits to this function in the presence of plaque. Phosphate in the uptake solution did not have a significant effect on arsenite uptake irrespective of the presence of iron plaque; however phosphate had a significant effect on arsenate uptake. Without iron plaque, phosphate inhibited arsenate uptake. The presence of iron plaque diminished the effect of phosphate on arsenate uptake, possibly through a combined effect of arsenate desorption from iron plaque.
15720681	* The extent of isotopic discrimination of transition metals in biological processes is poorly understood but potentially has important applications in plant and biogeochemical studies. * Using multicollector inductively coupled plasma (ICP) mass spectrometry, we measured isotopic fractionation of zinc (Zn) during uptake from nutrient solutions by rice (Oryza sativa), lettuce (Lactuca sativa) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) plants. * For all three species, the roots showed a similar extent of heavy Zn enrichment relative to the nutrient solution, probably reflecting preferential adsorption on external root surfaces. By contrast, a plant-species specific enrichment of the light Zn isotope occurred in the shoots, indicative of a biological, membrane-transport controlled uptake into plant cells. The extent of the fractionation in the shoots further depended on the Zn speciation in the nutrient solution. * The observed isotopic depletion in heavy Zn from root to shoot (-0.13 to -0.26 per atomic mass unit) is equivalent to roughly a quarter of the total reported terrestrial variability of Zn isotopic compositions (c. 0.84 per atomic mass unit). Plant uptake therefore represents an important source of isotopic variation in biogeochemical cycling of Zn.
15720704	* Large-scale duplication events have been recently uncovered in the rice genome, but different interpretations were proposed regarding the extent of the duplications. * Through analysing the 370 Mb genome sequences assembled into 12 chromosomes of Oryza sativa subspecies indica, we detected 10 duplicated blocks on all 12 chromosomes that contained 47% of the total predicted genes. Based on the phylogenetic analysis, we inferred that this was a result of a genome duplication that occurred c. 70 million years ago, supporting the polyploidy origin of the rice genome. In addition, a segmental duplication was also identified involving chromosomes 11 and 12, which occurred c. 5 million years ago. * Following the duplications, there have been large-scale chromosomal rearrangements and deletions. About 30-65% of duplicated genes were lost shortly after the duplications, leading to a rapid diploidization. * Together with other lines of evidence, we propose that polyploidization is still an ongoing process in grasses of polyploidy origins.
15720707	Earlier comparative maps between the genomes of rice (Oryza sativa L.), barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) were linkage maps based on cDNA-RFLP markers. The low number of polymorphic RFLP markers has limited the development of dense genetic maps in wheat and the number of available anchor points in comparative maps. Higher density comparative maps using PCR-based anchor markers are necessary to better estimate the conservation of colinearity among cereal genomes. The purposes of this study were to characterize the proportion of transcribed DNA sequences containing simple sequence repeats (SSR or microsatellites) by length and motif for wheat, barley and rice and to determine in-silico rice genome locations for primer sets developed for wheat and barley Expressed Sequence Tags. The proportions of SSR types (di-, tri-, tetra-, and penta-nucleotide repeats) and motifs varied with the length of the SSRs within and among the three species, with trinucleotide SSRs being the most frequent. Distributions of genomic microsatellites (gSSRs), EST-derived microsatellites (EST-SSRs), and transcribed regions in the contiguous sequence of rice chromosome 1 were highly correlated. More than 13,000 primer pairs were developed for use by the cereal research community as potential markers in wheat, barley and rice. Trinucleotide SSRs were the most common type in each of the species; however, the relative proportions of SSR types and motifs differed among rice, wheat, and barley. Genomic microsatellites were found to be primarily located in gene-rich regions of the rice genome. Microsatellite markers derived from the use of non-redundant EST-SSRs are an economic and efficient alternative to RFLP for comparative mapping in cereals.
15723276	In this study we have attempted to quantify the thermal and photoperiodical responses of rice (Oryza sativa L.) flowering time QTLs jointly by a 'date-of-planting' field experiment of a mapping population, and a 'phenological model' analysis that separately parameterizes the two responses, based on daily temperature, daily photoperiod and flowering date. For this purpose, the 'three-stage Beta model', which parameterizes the sensitivity to temperature (parameter alpha), the sensitivity to photoperiod (parameter beta), and earliness under optimal conditions (10 h photoperiod at 30 degrees C) (parameter G), was applied to 'Nipponbare' x 'Kasalath' backcross inbred lines that were transplanted on five dates. QTLs for the beta value were detected in the four known flowering time QTL (Hd1, Hd2, Hd6 and Hd8) regions, while QTLs for the G value were detected only in the Hd1 and Hd2 regions. This result was consistent with previous reports on near-isogenic lines (NILs) of Hd1, Hd2 and Hd6, where these loci were involved in photoperiod sensitivity, and where Hd1 and Hd2 conferred altered flowering under both 10 and 14 h photoperiods, while Hd6 action was only affected by the 14 h photoperiod. Hd8 was shown to control photoperiod sensitivity for the first time. Interestingly, Hd1 and Hd2 were associated with a QTL for the alpha value, which might support the previous hypothesis that the process of photoinduction depends on temperature. These results demonstrate that our approach can effectively quantify environmental responses of flowering time QTLs without controlled environments or NILs.
15725652	Three cyclohexenone derivatives, (4S,5S,6S)-5,6-epoxy-4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-5-methyl-cyclohex-2-en-1-one (1), (4R,5R)-4,5-dihydroxy-3-methoxy-5-methyl-cyclohex-2-en-1-one (2), and (4R,5S,6R)-4,5,6-trihydroxy-3-methoxy-5-methyl-cyclohex-2-en-1-one (3), were isolated from unpolished rice fermented with an xylariaceous endophytic fungus (strain YUA-026). The structures of three compounds were established on the basis of spectroscopic analyses and chemical conversion. The minimum inhibitory concentrations of 1 and 3 were 100 microg/ml and 400 microg/ml against Staphylococcus aureus, 100 microg/ml and 200 microg/ml against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and 200 microg/ml and >400 microg/ml against Candida albicans, respectively. In addition, 1 and 3 exhibited phytotoxic activity against lettuce.
15725670	A small family of plant proteins, designated PSEUDO RESPONSE REGULATORS (PRRs), is crucial for a better understanding of the molecular link between circadian rhythm and photoperiodic control of flowering time in the dicotyledonous model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Recently, we showed that the monocotyledonous model plant Oryza sativa also has homologous members of the OsPRR family (Oryza sativa PRR). In the previous experiments with rice, we mainly characterized a japonica variety (Nipponbare). By employing an indica variety (Kasalath), in this study we further characterized OsPRRs with reference to the photoperiod sensitivity Hd (Heading date) QTL (quantitative trait loci) implicated in the control of flowering time in rice. The circadian-controlled and sequential expression profiles of the five OsPRR genes were observed not only for Nipponbare but also for Kasalath. Then each of these OsPRR genes was mapped on the rice chromosomes. Among these OsPRR genes, OsPRR37 was mapped very closely to Hd2-QTL, which was identified as the major locus that enhances the photoperiod sensitivity of flowering in Nipponbare. Furthermore, we found that Kasalath has a severe mutational lesion in the OsPRR37 coding sequence.
15726565	Laboratory bioassays were carried out in order to evaluate the effectiveness of two diatomaceous earth (DE) formulations, Insecto and SilicoSec, against adults of Rhyzopertha dominica (F) in eight different grain commodities. The adherence of the two DEs to each grain was also measured. The eight grains tested were wheat, whole barley, peeled barley, oats, rye, triticale, rice and maize. These commodities were treated with the DEs at three rates, 0.75, 1.0 and 1.5 g DE kg(-1) grain. The mortality of R dominica adults was measured after 24 h, 48 h, 7 days and 14 days of exposure in the treated grains at 26 degrees C and 55% RH. After the 14-day mortality count, all adults were removed and the treated grains retained under the same conditions for a further 60 days. The treated grains were subsequently examined for F1 progeny. Significant differences were recorded among the eight grain types as well as between the DE formulations tested. After 14 days of exposure, even at the lowest DE rate for both formulations, adult mortality was high (>90%) in wheat and triticale. In contrast, adult mortality was significantly lower in peeled barley. Increasing the rate improved the efficacy of the DEs significantly in only some of the grains tested. Reproductive capacity in all the treated grains was significantly suppressed when compared with untreated grains. Generally, more F1 individuals of R dominica were noted in the treated peeled barley than in the other commodities. Significant differences in the percentage of DE retention were noted among the eight grains. The highest retention level was noted in rice (>87%) and the lowest in maize (<6%). However, the degree of DE adherence to a given grain was not always indicative of the effectiveness of DE against R dominica.
15726573	Cinosulfuron is a sulfonylurea herbicide largely used in the extensive cultures of flooded rice in North Italy. The degradation of cinosulfuron has been investigated in sterile aqueous solutions at 30 degrees C at different pH values. It was rapidly degraded at acidic pH (half-lives 3, 9 and 43 days at pH 4, 5 and 6, respectively) while the half-life was > 1 year at pH 7 and 9. Two degradation products formed by cleavage of the sulfonylurea bridge were identified by LC-MS. Degradation by selected mixed microbial cultures tested in aerobic and anaerobic conditions was very slow and attributable to chemical hydrolysis due to the acidic pH of the cultural broths. Degradation took place in freshly collected rice field water treated for two years with cinosulfuron but, in this case also, chemical hydrolysis prevailed over microbial degradation. In contrast, in flooded sediment simulating the paddy field environment, the dissipation rate of cinosulfuron was higher than expected from chemical hydrolysis according to the pH of the system, indicating the involvement of soil microflora. Although the herbicide exhibited a reduced affinity for the sediment surfaces demonstrated by the low value of the K(f) Freundlich coefficient (0.87 on a micromolar basis), the rapid dissipation observed in the simulated paddy field should prevent its leaching to ground water.
15726986	Three prepared seafood products for manufacturing a laver (dried seaweed) roll, a traditional and rapidly growing ready-to-eat meal in Korea, were selected and the effects of irradiation treatment for eliminating pathogens of public health significance were investigated. The pathogens tested were Salmonella Typhimurium, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Listeria ivanovii. The radiation sensitivity (D10-values or the dose required to inactivate 90% of a population) of these organisms ranged from 0.23 to 0.62 kGy in imitation crab leg, 0.31 to 0.44 kGy in surimi gel, and 0.27 to 0.44 kGy in dried seaweed. The growth of all four test organisms inoculated (10(8) CFU/g) into these foods was inhibited by irradiation during 24 h of postirradiation storage regardless of the temperature (10, 20, and 30 degrees C). L. ivanovii was not detected after a 3-kGy treatment, but the other pathogens were not detected following irradiation at 2 kGy. These studies indicated that low-dose irradiation (2 kGy or less) of prepared seafood materials can keep them microbiologically safe before manufacturing a ready-to-eat prepared meal, a laver roll.
15727130	The role model systems have played in understanding telomere biology has been enormous, and understanding has rapidly transferred to human telomere research. Most work using model organisms to study telomerase and nontelomerase-based telomere-maintenance systems has centered on yeasts, ciliates, and insects. But it is now timely to put considerably more effort into plant models for a number of reasons: (i) the rice and Arabidopsis genome sequencing projects make data mining possible; (ii) extensive collections of insertion mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana enable phenotypic effects of protein gene knockouts to be analyzed, including for those genes involved in telomere structure, function (including, for example, in meiosis), and maintenance; and (iii) the variability of plant telomeres is considerable and ranges from the telomerase-mediated synthesis of the Arabidopsis-type (TTTAGGG) and vertebrate-type (TTAGGG) repeats to sequences synthesized by telomerase-independent mechanism(s) that are still to be discovered. Here we describe how the understanding of telomere biology has been advanced by methods used to isolate telomeric sequences and prove that the putative sequences isolated are indeed telomeric. We show how assays designed to prove the activity of telomerase [e.g., telomeric repeat amplification protocol (TRAP)] lead not only to an understanding of telomere structure and function, but also to the understanding of cell activity in development and in the cell cycle. We review how assays designed to reveal protein/protein and protein/nucleic acid interactions promote understanding of the structure and activities of plant telomeres. Together, the data are making significant contributions to telomere biology in general and could have medical implications.
15727184	To observe the effects of genetically modified rice with Xa21 on the development of rat embryos. According to sex, weanling rats were divided into four groups: transgenic rice group, non-transgenic rice group, AIN93G negative control group and MATDA positive control group. The rats were fed with corresponding food for 90 days and mated. The development of maternal rats and embryos were observed. The body weight gain of pregnant rats and the body weight, body length and tail length of fetal rats in transgenic rice group were significant increased than those in positive control group. The number of death embryos and adsorption embryos, the malformation rate (appearance, viscera, skeleton) in transgenic rice group were lower than those in positive control group. There were no significant difference of all indicators among transgenic rice group, non-transgenic rice group and AIN93G negative control group. Compared with the non-transgenic rice, transgenic rice modified with Xa21 gene showed no significant differences in rat pregnant rate and embryo development.
15727185	In order to assess the safety of genetically modified crops, the anti-nutrients were determined in these novel crops and compared with their parental lines. Five kinds of crops (rice, maize, soybean, cottonseed and rapeseed) from domestic and foreign companies were collected and the contents of anti-nutrients for each kind were analyzed. These anti-nutrients include phytate and protease-inhibitors (in rice, maize and soybean), gossypol (in cottonseed), glucosinolates and erucic acids (in rapeseed). The contents of anti-nutrients in one type of maize, three types of rapeseeds and two types of cottonseeds didn't meet the requirement of "equivalence" in this study, but the finally conclusion should be made after many experimental data in the future.
15728111	The proper development of any organ or tissue requires the coordinated expression of its underlying genes that can be located on different genomes present in an organism. For instance, each step in the development of seed for a higher plant is the consequence of gene interactions from the maternal, embryo and endosperm genomes. We present a multivariate statistical model for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTL) by incorporating two important aspects of seed development in plants-QTL interactions derived from different genomes, the maternal, embryo and endosperm, and genetic correlations among phenotypic traits expressed in different genome-specific tissues. This model, which has a high dimensionality, is constructed within the maximum-likelihood context based on a finite mixture model. The implementation of the expectation-maximization algorithm allows for the efficient estimation of QTL positions, their action and interaction effects and pleiotropic effects. The application of this high-dimensional model to a real rice dataset has validated its usefulness. Our model was derived for self-pollinated plants, but it can be extended to cross-pollinated plants and to animals. With the burgeoning of genetic and genomic data, this high-dimensional model will have many implications for agricultural and evolutionary genetic research. A package of software will be provided from the corresponding author upon request.
15733327	A GC-compositional strand bias or GC-skew (=(C-G)/(C+G)), where C and G denote the numbers of cytosine and guanine residues, was recently reported near the transcription start sites (TSS) of Arabidopsis genes. However, it is unclear whether other eukaryotic species have equally prominent GC-skews, and the biological meaning of this trait remains unknown. Our study confirmed a significant GC-skew (C > G) in the TSS of Oryza sativa (rice) genes. The full-length cDNAs and genomic sequences from Arabidopsis and rice were compared using statistical analyses. Despite marked differences in the G+C content around the TSS in the two plants, the degrees of bias were almost identical. Although slight GC-skew peaks, including opposite skews (C < G), were detected around the TSS of genes in human and Drosophila, they were qualitatively and quantitatively different from those identified in plants. However, plant-like GC-skew in regions upstream of the translation initiation sites (TIS) in some fungi was identified following analyses of the expressed sequence tags and/or genomic sequences from other species. On the basis of our dataset, we estimated that > 70 and 68% of Arabidopsis and rice genes, respectively, had a strong GC-skew (> 0.33) in a 100-bp window (that is, the number of C residues was more than double the number of G residues in a +/-100-bp window around the TSS). The mean GC-skew value in the TSS of highly-expressed genes in Arabidopsis was significantly greater than that of genes with low expression levels. Many of the GC-skew peaks were preferentially located near the TSS, so we examined the potential value of GC-skew as an index for TSS identification. Our results confirm that the GC-skew can be used to assist the TSS prediction in plant genomes. The GC-skew (C > G) around the TSS is strictly conserved between monocot and eudicot plants (ie. angiosperms in general), and a similar skew has been observed in some fungi. Highly-expressed Arabidopsis genes had overall a more marked GC-skew in the TSS compared to genes with low expression levels. We therefore propose that the GC-skew around the TSS in some plants and fungi is related to transcription. It might be caused by mutations during transcription initiation or the frequent use of transcription factor-biding sites having a strand preference. In addition, GC-skew is a good candidate index for TSS prediction in plant genomes, where there is a lack of correlation among CpG islands and genes.
15733363	Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) harms the lives and health of newborn infants and children severely. The prognosis is not satisfied, especially of the severe HIE. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can secrete a series of growth factors and neurotrophic factors. As well they have the potential ability to differentiate to the neural cells in vitro and in vivo. Therefore MSCs transplantation has been employed as a source of progenitor cells for cell therapy in patients with HIE in order to promote recovery of brain function and reduce the sequelae. Studies have shown that MSCs could enter the cerebral parenchyma and differentiate to neural cells through systemic infusion, but most of the researches applied adult stroke animal models. This study used neonatal HIE models to test the hypothesis that MSCs could enter the brain of newborn Wistar rats through the blood-brain barrier (BBB) by intraperitoneal infusion followed by observing the characteristics of the distribution and differentiation of MSCs in brain tissues, and exploring the effects of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage to the penetration and differentiation of MSCs. Isolation and purification of MSCs were established from the whole bone marrow of juvenile Wistar rats by removing the nonadherent cells in primary and passage cultures. For cellular identification, MSCs of three to five passages were continuously pre-labeled with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) for 72 hours before transplantation. Animal models of HIE were built in 7-day-postnatal Wistar rats according to the method described by Rice. Two hours after hypoxia-ischemia, rats in HIE group (n = 8) were intraperitoneally infused with MSCs (4 x 10(6), 0.5 ml). In control group (n = 8), 7-day-postnatal normal Wistar rats were intraperitoneally infused with the same amount of MSCs. All rats were sacrificed and their cerebra were sectioned by cryomicrotome 14 days after transplantation. Immunohistochemical staining with chromogen diaminobenzidine (DAB) was used to detect and measure the cells derived from MSCs, and study the characteristics of distribution. To determine the differentiation of the BrdU positive cells entering the brains, immunofluorescence double labeling for BrdU and neural cells specific antigens was performed. MSCs were distributed throughout the cerebra in both groups at the 14th day after transplantation. The number of MSCs detected was 2415 +/- 226 in the control group, and 3626 +/- 461 in HIE group, respectively (t = 6.68, P < 0.05). More BrdU reactive cells were observed in the right ischemic hemisphere (1904 +/- 267) than in the contralateral hemisphere (1723 +/- 204), (t = 4.47, P < 0.05). No significant difference was found while comparing both cerebral hemispheres of the control group (t = 0.31, P > 0.05). In the HIE group, MSCs distributed more extensively, and some focal aggregations of MSCs were noticed. A few MSCs expressed Nestin-protein marker of neural progenitor cells, and almost none of the MSCs which expressed proteins characteristic of neuron (e.g. NSE) and astrocyte (e.g. GFAP) was detected at the 14th day after transplantation. 1. MSCs could enter the cerebral parenchyma through BBB and migrate throughout the brain by intraperitoneal infusion. 2. More MSCs injected intraperitoneally were localized and directed to the sites of hypoxic-ischemic brain damage. 3. Transplanted MSCs could not differentiate to neuron and astrocyte without other interventions during 14 days after transplantation.
15733690	The main purpose of this study was to determine the anthropometric indications and nutritional intake of pregnant and lactating women in the Vaal Triangle (n = 431). A validated quantitative food frequency questionnaire was used in this study. Trained fieldworkers conducted interviews with the help of food models to estimate portion sizes. The anthropometric measurements included weight, height and body mass index (BMI). Blood samples were collected for determining iron status parameters. The 10 items consumed most frequently by pregnant women were, in descending order: fresh milk; tea; coffee; cold drinks; maize meal; fruit juice; bread; magou (non-alcoholic fermented maize drink); rice and sugar. For lactating women, the results were: fresh milk; tea; coffee; maize meal; cold drinks; magou; bread; yoghurt; rice and sugar. Daily intakes (mean +/- SD) for pregnant women were 8425.71 +/- 2279 kJ, 73.18 +/- 23 g protein, 62.29 +/- 23.7 g fat, 292.45 +/- 72.2 g carbohydrate and 9.74 +/- 3.8 mg iron. For lactating women, the intakes were 8511.94 +/- 2047 kJ, 76.24 +/- 25 g protein, 61.95 +/- 22.3 g fat, 294.37 +/- 64.2 g carbohydrate and 10.50 +/- 4.0 mg iron. The results of this study showed that most of the women (98%) resided in towns and 79.3% were unemployed. The majority of the sample population was overweight or obese (BMI> or = 25). The diets of the subjects consisted primarily of plant-based foods. Animal foods were scarce except for milk. Most of the items consumed were low in iron. Iron deficiency is partly induced by plant-based diets containing low levels of poorly bio-available iron. An assessment of dietary intake is required to aid in the development of relevant dietary guidelines for the sample population.
15734318	The effects of germination temperature on the growth of barley seedlings for phytase production were studied at 15, 20 and 25 degrees C for 6-10 days. The growth rate of the barley seedlings was increased as the germination temperature was increased. The initial rate of total protein production was closely coupled to that of the barley growth, and the rate of total protein production tended to increase as the germination temperature was increased. SDS-PAGE analysis of total protein from the barley seedlings showed time-dependent appearance and disappearance of protein bands. Although no significant phytase activity was detected at zero time of germination, a significant increase in phytase activity up to 7.9-fold occurred during the first several days of germination then decreased. Phosphate production (viz. phytate degradation) in the barley seedlings occurred rapidly at the beginning of germination. However, the rate of production continued to decrease with further germination. A time lag of about 1-2 days between the rate of total protein production and that of phytase production was observed. Unlike the extent of total protein production, that of phytase production was similar irrespective of germination temperature. Partial purification of a crude enzyme extract by hydrophobic interaction chromatography resulted in two phytase fractions (PI and PII). Zymogram analysis demonstrated that PI had two bands with molecular masses of about 66 and 123 kDa while PII had one band corresponding to a molecular mass of about 96 kDa. The optimal temperature for PI was found to be 55 degrees C, while it was 50 degrees C for PII. The enzyme fraction PI had a pH optimum at 6.0, whereas the optimum pH for PII was found to be 5.0. Addition of 0.1% (v/v) Tween 80 was found to increase enzyme activity significantly (i.e., 167% for PI and 137% for PII). Phytate in cereals including barley, rice, corn and soybean degraded effectively by the treatment of the barley phytases.
15735369	Little information is available about the nutrition of people with diabetes from Africa. For the treatment and prevention of diabetes by nutrition, we have assessed the major local foods in a baseline study. The staple foods and meal frequencies of 53 outpatients with type-2 diabetes were assessed in a 24-hour dietary recall based on a questionnaire at a diabetes clinic in northern Tanzania in November and December 1999. In addition, data on weight and height, casual blood glucose, urinary glucose and diabetes therapy were ascertained. 72% of the patients had a body mass index of > or =25 kg/m(2); 64% of patients had casual blood glucose levels of >7.8 mmol/l, 47% had >11.1 mmol/l, and most of them were treated by sulfonylureas or conventional insulin therapy. The test for urinary glucose highly correlated with the blood glucose values, and was positive in 59% of patients. 36% of the patients had < or =3 meals/day. The foods stated most frequently were stiff porridge, plantains, bread, rice, beef, milk, amaranth leaves, orange and sunflower oil. The main beverages were water, tea and milk. The baseline data obtained enable more precise dietary assessment and emphasize the need to collect more data on local food consumption in areas where pharmacological diabetes treatment is limited.
15737637	We isolated and characterized the rice homologue of the DNA repair gene Snm1 (OsSnm1). The length of the cDNA was 1862bp; the open reading frame encoded a predicted product of 485 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 53.2kDa. The OsSnm1 protein contained the conserved beta-lactamase domain in its internal region. OsSnm1 was expressed in all rice organs. The expression was induced by MMS, H(2)O(2), and mitomycin C, but not by UV. Transient expression of an OsSnm1/GFP fusion protein in onion epidermal cells revealed the localization of OsSnm1 to the nucleus. These results suggest that OsSnm1 is involved not only in the repair of DNA interstrand crosslinks, but also in various other DNA repair pathways.
15737685	The in vivo antimutagenicity of Se-enriched rice was evaluated by bone marrow micronucleus and testicle chromosomal aberrations assay in mice exposed to cyclophosphamide (CP) and mitomycin C (MMC). Regular rice did not alter the occurrence of chemical-induced mutation. However, the addition of Se-enriched rice or selenite significantly inhibited the incidence of CP-induced micronuclei and MMC-induced chromosomal aberration in mice and the effect was dose-dependent. Providing selenite or Se-enriched rice also significantly increased the activity of glutathione peroxidase in liver and the selenium concentration in blood compared to regular rice. No significant differences were found in mice body weight gain. These results revealed the antimutagenic potential of Se-enriched rice against chemical-induced mutation.
15737713	Lignin-like matter (I) from rice hull residues and humin-like matter and (II) from rice hull-fecal matter compost yield, upon sulphonation by SO(3), the lignosulphonates III and IV, respectively. The solid state IR spectra of I and II are analysed and interpreted based on the functional groups content values obtained for III and IV by solution NMR spectroscopy. IR absorbance values at five selected wavelengths for I and II correlate well with functional groups content values for III and IV according to Beer's law. It is concluded that the sulphonated derivatives, aside from the -SO(3)H content, reflect well the chemical structure of the parent materials. No side reaction of I or II with SO(3), other than C sulphonation, is apparent. The above correlation may be useful for waste management purposes.
15739234	The molecular profile and the biological response of isolates of Pyricularia oryzae Cavara obtained from ctenanthe to two strobilurins (azoxystrobin, kresoxim-methyl) and the phenylpyridinamine fungicide fluazinam were characterized, and compared with isolates from rice plants. Five different isozymes (alpha-esterase, lactate, malate, isocitrate and sorbitol dehydrogenases) and five random decamer primers for RAPD-PCR were used to generate molecular markers. Using unweighted pair-group with arithmetic average analysis, ctenanthe isolates were found to form a separate group distinct from that of the rice isolates for both sets of markers. Amplified polymorphic sequences of mitochondrial cytochrome b that were digested with Fnu4HI or StyI revealed no differences among Pyricularia isolates at amino acid positions 143 or 129 which confer resistance to strobilurins in several fungi. In absence of the alternative respiration inhibitor salicylhydroxamic acid (SHAM) the three fungicides showed inferior and variable efficacy, with a trend toward the rice isolate being less sensitive. The addition of SHAM enhanced the effectiveness of all fungicides against isolates regardless of their origin. Appressorium formation was the most vulnerable target of action of the respiration inhibitors and azoxystrobin the most effective. This is the first report of a comparison between the molecular profiles and sensitivities to respiration inhibitors for Pyricularia oryzae isolates from a non-gramineous host and from rice.
15739403	A new hydrolysis method which only needs 7min--microwave hydrolysis used for the analysis of amino acids in egg by Pico-Tag high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) is reported. The experimental results show that the satisfactory recovery could be obtained by use of 6mol/L HCL and 1% phenol as hydrolysing solution and a microwave oven with power of 300W. These conditions can also be used for the hydrolysis of other samples, such as rice, meat and so on. The average recovery of this method is 95% with a RSD of 2%. The accuracy is better than the conventional one (hydrolysis 24 at 110 degrees C) and Pico-Tag (hydrolysis 24h at 105 degrees C). Furthermore, the microwave hydrolysis decreases the loss of some unstable amino acids, e.g. Ser, Thr, Tyr, etc. In the process the method is convenient, rapid, accurate and reproducible.
15740005	A rapid, selective, sensitive, accurate, and inexpensive immunosensor for gibberellin acid detection was designed by coupling immunoassay with the square wave anodic stripping voltammetry (SWASV) technique involving copper ion labeled antigen in the competitive immunoreaction. The response signal expressed as the percentage of current reduction CR % (y) is linearly related to the concentration of GA (x) in the 1 microg/mL to approximately 150 microg/mL range with a regression equation of the form y = 0.44x + 15.59 and a correlation coefficient of 0.99. The results of the immunosensor assay were compared with those obtained by HPLC and ELISA, which show a satisfactory agreement. The immunosensor was used to determine the GA content in the hybrid rice grain samples taken in the growing period.
15740024	This publication presents an approach to assessing compositional equivalence between grain derived from glufosinate-tolerant rice grain, genetic event LLRICE62, and its nontransgenic counterpart. Rice was grown in the same manner as is common for commercial production, using either conventional weed control practices or glufosinate-ammonium herbicide. A two-season multisite trial design provided a robust data set to evaluate environmental effects between the sites. Statistical comparisons to test for equivalence were made between glufosinate-tolerant rice and a conventional counterpart variety. The key nutrients, carbohydrates, protein, iron, calcium, thiamin, riboflavin, and niacin, for which rice can be the principal dietary source, were investigated. The data demonstrate that rice containing the genetic locus LLRICE62 has the same nutritional value as its nontransgenic counterpart, and most results for nutritional components fall within the range of values reported for rice commodities in commerce.
15740082	Fast-growing Zygomycetes, most notably Rhizopus oligosporus, are traditionally used in many food fermentations, for example, for soybean tempeh production. R. oligosporus is considered to belong to the Rhizopus microsporus group. Certain R. microsporus strains have been reported to produce either the pharmaceutically active rhizoxins or the highly toxic rhizonins A and B. In this study was investigated the formation of secondary metabolites by R. microsporus, R. oligosporus, and Rhizopus chinensis grown on a wide range of different semisynthetic and natural substrates. Liquid chromatography, combined with photodiode array detection and high-resolution mass spectrometric techniques, was used to identify secondary metabolites. Growth on maize, brown rice, and Pharma agar gave both the highest amounts and the maximum diversity of rhizoxins and rhizonins. Rhizoxins were produced by all four R. microsporus strains, whereas only one strain produced rhizonins. The six R. oligosporus and four R. chinensis strains investigated did not produce any of these two classes of metabolites.
15740766	In 1985, the collapse of the tailing dam in Chenzhou lead/zinc mine (Hunan, southern China) led to the spread of mining waste spills on the farmland along the Dong River. After the accident, an urgent soil cleaning up was carried out in some places. Seventeen years later, cereal (rice, maize, and sorghum), pulses (soybean, Adzuki bean, mung bean and peanut), vegetables (ipomoea, capsicum, taro and string bean) and the rooted soils were sampled at four sites: (1) the mining area (SZY), (2) the area still covered with the mining tailing spills (GYB), (3) the cleaned area from mining tailing spills (JTC), and (4) a background site (REF). Metal concentrations in the crops and soils were analyzed to evaluate the long-term effects of the spilled waste on the soil and the potential human exposure through food chains. The results showed that the physical-chemical properties of the soils obviously changed due to the different farming styles used by each individual farmer. Leaching effects and plant extraction of metals from some soils were quite weak. Certain soils were still heavily polluted with As, Cd, Zn, Pb and Cu. The contamination levels were in the order of GYB>SZY>JTC showing that the clean-up treatment was effective. The maximum allowable concentration (MAC) levels for Chinese agricultural soils were still highly exceeded, particularly for As and Cd (followed by Zn, Pb and Cu), with mean concentrations of 709 and 7.6 mg kg(-1), respectively. These concentrations exceed the MAC levels by 24 times for As and 13 times for Cd at GYB. Generally, the edible leaves or stems of crops were more heavily contaminated than seeds or fruits. Ipomoea was the most severely contaminated crop. The concentrations of Cd and Pb were 3.30 and 76.9 mg kg(-1) in ipomoea leaves at GYB, which exceeded the maximum permit levels (0.5 mg kg(-1) for Cd and 9 mg kg(-1) for Pb) by 6.6 and 8.5 times, respectively. Taro (+skin) could accumulate high concentrations of Zn and Cd in the edible stem, and rice and capsicum had high Cd concentration in the edible parts. However, the toxic element concentrations in maize, sorghum, Adzuki bean, soybean and mung bean remained lower than the threshold levels. The bio-accumulation factors (BAFs) of crops were in the order: Cd>Zn>Cu>Pb>As. BAF was typically lower in the edible seeds or fruits than in stems and leaves. The accumulation effect strongly depends on the crop's physiological properties, the mobility, of the metals, and the availability of metals in soils but not entirely on the total element concentrations in the soils. Even so, the estimated daily intake amount of Cu, Zn, Cd, and Pb from the crops grown in the affected three sites and arsenic at SZY and GYB exceeded the RDA (Recommended dietary allowance) levels. Subsequently, the crops grown in Chenzhou Pb/Zn mine waste affected area might have a hazardous effect on the consumer's health. This area still needs effective measures to cure the As, Cd, Pb, Zn and Cu contamination.
15742183	A novel amperometric sensor and chromatographic detector for determination of parathion has been fabricated from a multi-wall carbon nano-tube (MWCNT)/Nafion film-modified glassy-carbon electrode (GCE). The electrochemical response to parathion at the MWCNT/Nafion film electrode was investigated by cyclic voltammetry and linear sweep voltammetry. The redox current of parathion at the MWCNT/Nafion film electrode was significantly higher than that at the bare GCE, the MWCNT-modified GCE, and the Nafion-modified GCE. The results indicated that the MWCNT/Nafion film had an efficient electrocatalytic effect on the electrochemical response to parathion. The peak current was proportional to the concentration of parathion in the range 5.0x10(-9)-2.0x10(-5) mol L(-1). The detection limit was 1.0x10(-9) mol L(-1) (after 120 s accumulation). In high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ED) a stable and sensitive current response was obtained for parathion at the MWCNT/Nafion film electrode. The linear range for parathion was over four orders of magnitude and the detection limit was 6.0x10(-9) mol L(-1). Application of the method for determination of parathion in rice was satisfactory.
15742533	Productivities of 29 crops in the Closed Ecology Experiment Facilities (CEEF) were measured. Rice and soybean showed higher productivities than these given by the Advanced Life Support System Modeling and Analysis Project Baseline Values and Assumption Document (BVAD), but productivities of some other crops, such as potato and sweet potato, were lower. The cultivation data were utilized to develop a 1-week cycle menu for Closed Habitation Experiment. The menu met most of the nutritional requirements. Necessary cultivation area per crew was estimated to be 255 m2. Results from this study can be used to help design the future Advanced Life Support System (ALSS) including the CEEF.
15743711	The purposes of this study were a) to summarize measurements of airborne (respirable) crystalline silica dust exposure levels among U.S. workers, b) to provide an update of the 1990 Stewart and Rice report on airborne silica exposure levels in high-risk industries and occupations with data for the time period 1988-2003, c) to estimate the number of workers potentially exposed to silica in industries that the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) inspected for high exposure levels, and d) to conduct time trend analyses on airborne silica dust exposure levels for time-weighted average (TWA) measurements. Compliance inspection data that were taken from the OSHA Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) for 1988-2003 (n = 7,209) were used to measure the airborne crystalline silica dust exposure levels among U.S. workers. A second-order autoregressive model was applied to assess the change in the mean silica exposure measurements over time. The overall geometric mean of silica exposure levels for 8-hr personal TWA samples collected during programmed inspections was 0.077 mg/m3, well above the applicable American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists threshold limit value of 0.05 mg/m3. Surgical appliances supplies industry [Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) 3842] had the lowest geometric mean silica exposure level of 0.017 mg/m3, compared with the highest level, 0.166 mg/m3, for the metal valves and pipe fitting industry (SIC 3494), for an 8-hr TWA measurement. Although a downward trend in the airborne silica exposure levels was observed during 1988-2003, the results showed that 3.6% of the sampled workers were exposed above the OSHA-calculated permissible exposure limit.
15743716	Carbofuran is a carbamate insecticide registered for use on a variety of food crops including corn, alfalfa, rice, and tobacco. An estimated 5 million pounds of carbofuran is used annually in the United States, and 45% of urban African-American women have detectable levels of carbofuran in their plasma. Nitrosated carbofuran has demonstrated mutagenic properties. We examined exposure to carbofuran and several tumor sites among 49,877 licensed pesticide applicators from Iowa and North Carolina enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study. We obtained information regarding years of use, frequency of use in an average year, and when use began for 22 pesticides using self-administered questionnaires. Poisson regression was used to calculate rate ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) adjusting for potential confounders. Lung cancer risk was 3-fold higher for those with > 109 days of lifetime exposure to carbofuran (RR = 3.05; 95% CI, 0.94-9.87) compared with those with < 9 lifetime exposure days, with a significant dose-response trend for both days of use per year and total years of use. However, carbofuran use was not associated with lung cancer risk when nonexposed persons were used as the referent. In addition, carbofuran exposure was not associated with any other cancer site examined. Although carbamate pesticides are suspected human carcinogens, these results should be interpreted cautiously because there was no a priori hypothesis specifically linking carbofuran to lung cancer.
15744501	Introduction of large-DNA fragments into cereals by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is a useful technique for map-based cloning and molecular breeding. However, little is known about the organization and stability of large fragments of foreign DNA introduced into plant genomes. In this study, we produced transgenic rice plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation with a large-insert T-DNA containing a 92-kb region of the wheat genome. The structures of the T-DNA in four independent transgenic lines were visualized by fluorescence in situ hybridization on extended DNA fibers (fiber FISH). By using this cytogenetic technique, we showed that rearrangements of the large-insert T-DNA, involving duplication, deletion and insertion, had occurred in all four lines. Deletion of long stretches of the large-insert DNA was also observed in Agrobacterium.
15747321	The materials used to prepare the certified reference materials (CRMs) for Cd rice flour described here were taken from Cd-contaminated rice samples, round-grained and non-sticky rice grown in different provinces throughout China. The Cd rice materials were first blown to remove dust and husk, and then were successively ground, sieved, dried and mixed to form homogeneous rice flour. The Cd rice flour was packed in glass bottles, each bottle containing 40 g. All bottled CRMs were subjected to 60Co radiation (2.5 megarads) for long-term preservation. Atomic absorption spectrometry was used to determine the homogeneity of the cadmium content in each material. The certification of the cadmium content for the three CRMs was performed using isotope dilution mass spectrometry.
15747324	A probabilistic model was developed to estimate target and non-target avian mortality associated with the application of the avicide CPTH (3-chloro-p-toluidine hydrochloride) to minimize sprouting rice damage in the southern USA. CPTH exposures for individual birds were predicted by random sampling from species-specific non-parametric distributions of bait seed consumption and CPTH residues detected on individual bait seeds. Mortality was predicted from the species-specific exposure versus mortality relationship. Individual variations in this response were captured in the model by Monte Carlo sampling from species-specific distributions of slopes and median toxicity values (LD50) for each bird. The model was used to simultaneously predict mortality (percentage of exposed population and number of birds killed/weight of consumed bait) for a target (blackbird) and non-target (mourning dove) species feeding on bait sites for up to five consecutive days.
15747860	In Phanrang, Vietnam, sheep production is limited by the sparse availability of green roughage. Although prickly-pear cactus (Opuntia elator) is abundant in the area, it is not used. It was considered relevant therefore to test whether prickly-pear cactus could be used a component of feed supplements. With the use of the cactus and other local products--namely groundnut cake, fish sauce by-product, molasses, rice bran and cassava flour--two supplements were prepared. The level of cactus in the two supplements was 670 g/kg product (320 g/kg dry matter). The cactus was burned to remove the spines, chopped and sun-dried before use. The cactus preparation contained only 12 g crude protein/kg (68 g/ kg dry matter). The protein content of the two supplements was raised with either groundnut cake or fish sauce by-product. Sheep that were grazing during the day were offered either no supplement or one of the supplements when confined during the night. During a period of 3 months, non-supplemented control sheep gained 98 +/- 10.5 g/day (mean +/- SD, n=10). Sheep supplemented with cactus and groundnut gained 145 +/- 12.3 g/day, and those given cactus and fish sauce gained 130 +/- 11.7 g/day. It is concluded that prickly-pear cactus has potential as component of feed supplements for sheep.
15749712	Selective modification of proteins by ubiquitination is directed by diverse families of ubiquitin-protein ligases (or E3s). A large collection of E3s use Cullins (CULs) as scaffolds to form multisubunit E3 complexes in which the CUL binds a target recognition subcomplex and the RBX1 docking protein, which delivers the activated ubiquitin moiety. Arabidopsis and rice contain a large collection of CUL isoforms, indicating that multiple CUL-based E3s exist in plants. Here we show that Arabidopsis CUL3a and CUL3b associate with RBX1 and members of the broad complex/tramtrack/bric-a-brac (BTB) protein family to form BTB E3s. Eighty genes encoding BTB domain-containing proteins were identified in the Arabidopsis genome, indicating that a diverse array of BTB E3s is possible. In addition to the BTB domain, the encoded proteins also contain various other interaction motifs that likely serve as target recognition elements. DNA microarray analyses show that BTB genes are expressed widely in the plant and that tissue-specific and isoform-specific patterns exist. Arabidopsis defective in both CUL3a and CUL3b are embryo-lethal, indicating that BTB E3s are essential for plant development.
15749760	Many fungal pathogens invade plants by means of specialized infection structures called appressoria. In the rice (Oryza sativa) blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea, the pathogenicity mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase1 (PMK1) kinase is essential for appressorium formation and invasive growth. In this study, we functionally characterized the MST7 and MST11 genes of M. grisea that are homologous with the yeast MAP kinase kinase STE7 and MAP kinase kinase kinase STE11. Similar to the pmk1 mutant, the mst7 and mst11 deletion mutants were nonpathogenic and failed to form appressoria. When a dominant MST7 allele with S212D and T216E mutations was introduced into the mst7 or mst11 mutant, appressorium formation was restored in the resulting transformants. PMK1 phosphorylation also was detected in the vegetative hyphae and appressoria of transformants expressing the MST7(S212D T216E) allele. However, appressoria formed by these transformants failed to penetrate and infect rice leaves, indicating that constitutively active MST7 only partially rescued the defects of the mst7 and mst11 mutants. The intracellular cAMP level was reduced in transformants expressing the MST7(S212D T216E) allele. We also generated MST11 mutant alleles with the sterile alpha motif (SAM) and Ras-association (RA) domains deleted. Phenotype characterizations of the resulting transformants indicate that the SAM domain but not the RA domain is essential for the function of MST11. These data indicate that MST11, MST7, and PMK1 function as a MAP kinase cascade regulating infection-related morphogenesis in M. grisea. Although no direct interaction was detected between PMK1 and MST7 or MST11 in yeast two-hybrid assays, a homolog of yeast STE50 in M. grisea directly interacted with both MST7 and MST11 and may function as the adaptor protein for the MST11-MST7-PMK1 cascade.
15749763	Many seed storage proteins, including monomeric 2S albumin and polymeric prolamin, contain conserved sequences in three separate regions, termed A, B, and C, which contain the consensus motifs LxxC, CCxQL, and PxxC, respectively. Protein-sorting mechanisms in rice (Oryza sativa) endosperm were studied with a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to different segments of rice alpha-globulin, a monomeric, ABC-containing storage protein. The whole ABC region together with GFP was efficiently transported to protein storage vacuoles (type II protein bodies [PB-II]) in the endosperm cells and sequestered in the matrix that surrounds the crystalloids. Peptide Gln-23 to Ser-43 in the A region was sufficient to guide GFP to PB-II. However, GFP fused with the AB or B region accumulated in prolamin protein bodies. Substitution mutations in the CCxQL motif in the B region significantly altered protein localization in the endosperm cells. Furthermore, protein extracts containing these substituted proteins had increased amounts of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperons BiP (for binding protein), protein disulfide isomerase, and calnexin as a part of protein complexes that were insoluble in a detergent buffer. These results suggest that the ER chaperons and disulfide bonds formed at the dicysteine residues in CCxQL play critical roles in sorting fused proteins in the endosperm cells.
15751012	The persistence of pretilachlor applied to rice singly or in combination with the safener fenclorim was investigated in connection with starch, glucose and protein formation. The addition of fenclorim to pretilachlor did not reduce the accumulation of the latter, but reduced its persistence in rice shoots, while the presence of pretilachlor did not affect the persistence of fenclorim, but significantly increased its accumulation in the shoots. Therefore the safening effect of fenclorim consisted of a more rapid detoxification of pretilachlor. Over the period of pretilachlor and fenclorim detoxification, decreases in starch content, partially counterbalanced by increases of free glucose, and decreases in total protein content were observed in pretilachlor-treated shoots; decreases in both starch and free glucose, as well as in total protein content, were observed in fenclorim -treated shoots compared with the untreated controls. The decreases in starch and total glucose appeared to be a direct consequence of reduced glucokinase and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase activity, and the decrease in total protein an indirect consequence of reduced glutamine synthetase and glutamate synthase activity, in response to pretilachlor and fenclorim treatments.
15752174	The dynamics of malaria transmission was studied comparatively in the villages of Zatta and Tiemelekro, central Cote d'Ivoire, from February 2002 to August 2003. Prominent agroecosystems in these villages are irrigated rice growing and vegetable farming, respectively. Mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae) were collected on human bait at night and by pyrethrum knock-down spray sheet collections at four randomly selected sentinel sites in each village. In 2002, for a total of 96 man-nights per village, 7716 mosquitoes were collected in Zatta and 3308 in Tiemelekro. In 2003, with half the sampling effort, 859 and 2056 mosquitoes were collected in Zatta and Tiemelekro, respectively. Anopheles gambiae Giles s.l. was the predominant mosquito and the key malaria vector throughout, followed by An. funestus Giles. Anthropophily among adult female Anopheles exceeded 95% in both villages. Comparison between years revealed that the biting rate of An. gambiae s.l. in Zatta decreased several-fold from 49.3 bites per person per night (b/p/n) in 2002 to 7.9 b/p/n in 2003 (likelihood ratio test (LRT) = 1072.66; P < 0.001). Although the biting rate remained fairly constant in Tiemelekro, the difference between years was significant (16.1 vs. 18.2 b/p/n; LRT = 148.06; P < 0.001). These observations were paralleled by a marked decrease in the infective rate of An. gambiae s.l. in Zatta (4.6-1.2%), and an increase in Tiemelekro (3.1-7.6%). Meanwhile, the entomological inoculation rate of An. gambiae s.l. decreased 21-fold in Zatta, from 789 to 38 infective bites per person per year (ib/p/y), whereas it remained high in Tiemelekro (233 vs. 342 ib/p/y). The interruption of irrigated rice growing in Zatta in 2003, consequential to a farmers' conflict over land, might be the underlying cause for the significant reduction in malaria transmission, whereas more stable conditions occurred in Tiemelekro.
15752219	To develop strategies for increasing the growth of Lentinula edodes in eucalyptus residues. To this end, we have examined the effects of cereal brans additions on production of mycelial biomass and enzymes. Three isolates of the mushroom shiitake, L. edodes (Berk. Pegler), were evaluated for enzyme and ergosterol production on eucalyptus residue supplemented with 5, 10, 15 and 20% (w/w) of soya, wheat or rice brans. Nitrogen imput on eucalyptus residues accelerated mycelial growth by supplying the L. edodes with this limiting nutrient. High levels of enzymes activities were produced in eucalyptus residues supplemented by soya bran. Comparison of cellulose and xylanase production with manganese peroxidase (MnP) at 20% soya bran indicated that hydrolytic enzymes, but oxidative enzymes were reduced. Mycelial growth measurements revealed that eucalyptus residues supplemented with cereal brans supported fast growth of L. edodes, indicating that mycelium extension is related to the bioavailability of nitrogen. The type and concentration of nutrient supplement has a considerable effect both on substrate colonization and on the type of hydrolytic and oxidative enzymes produced. These characteristics may be useful for mushroom growing. Lentinula edodes is commercially important for edible mushroom production and supplements which enhance growth and enzymes production might also be beneficial for mushroom yields.
15752995	Comparative analyses unravel the relationships between genomes of related species. The most comprehensive comparative dataset obtained to date is from the grass family, which contains all of the major cereals. Early studies aimed to identify chromosomal regions that have remained conserved over long evolutionary time periods, but in recent years, researchers have focused more on the extent of colinearity at the DNA-sequence level. The latter studies have uncovered many small rearrangements that disturb colinearity in orthologous chromosome regions. In part, genomes derive their plasticity from genome- and gene-amplification processes. Duplicated gene copies are more likely to escape selective constraints and thus move to other regions of the genome, where they might acquire new functions or become deleted. These rearrangements will affect map applications. The most popular applications, especially since the complete rice genomic sequence has been available, are the use of comparative data in the generation of new markers to tag traits in other species and to identify candidate genes for these traits. The isolation of genes underlying orthologous traits is the first step in conducting comparative functional studies.
15753103	NADP-malic enzyme (NADP-ME) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK) are specifically expressed in bundle sheath cells (BSCs) in NADP-ME-type and PCK-type C4 plants, respectively. Unlike the high activities of these enzymes in the green leaves of C4 plants, their low activities have been detected in the leaves of C3 plants. In order to elucidate the differences in the gene expression system between C3 and C4 plants, we have produced chimeric constructs with the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of the maize NADP-Me (ZmMe) or Zoysia japonica Pck (ZjPck) promoter and introduced these constructs into rice. In leaves of transgenic rice, the ZmMe promoter directed GUS expression not only in mesophyll cells (MCs) but also in BSCs and vascular cells, whereas the ZjPck promoter directed GUS expression only in BSCs and vascular cells. Neither the ZjPck nor ZmMe promoters induced GUS expression due to light. In rice leaves, the endogenous NADP-Me (OsMe1) was expressed in MCs, BSCs and vascular cells, whereas the rice Pck (OsPck1) was expressed only in BSCs and vascular cells. Taken together, the results obtained from transgenic rice demonstrate that the expression pattern of ZmMe or ZjPck in transgenic rice was reflected by that of its counterpart gene in rice.
15753104	For NAD-malic enzyme (NAD-ME)-type C4 photosynthesis, two types of aspartate aminotransferase (AAT) are involved. We examined the expression pattern of the Panicum miliaceum mitochondrial Aat gene (PmAat) and P. miliaceum cytosolic Aat gene (PcAat) in transgenic rice plants, which were specifically expressed in bundle sheath cells (BSCs) and mesophyll cells (MCs), respectively. Expression of a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of the PcAat promoter was regulated in an organ-preferential and light-dependent manner in the transgenic rice plants. However, the PmAat promoter drove the GUS expression in all organs we tested without light dependency, and this non-preferential expression pattern was also observed in transgenic rice with introduction of the intact PmAat gene. The expression patterns of the rice counterpart Aat genes to PmAat or PcAat showed that the rice mitochondrial Aat (RmAat1) gene was expressed in all organs tested in a light-independent manner, while expression of the rice cytosolic Aat (RcAat1) gene showed an organ-preferential and light-dependent pattern. Taking these results together, we can generalize that the regulatory system of BSC-specific or light-dependent expression of mitochondrial Aat is not shared between P. miliaceum (C4) and rice (C3) and that the expression of the C4 genes introduced into rice mimics that of their counterpart genes in rice.
15753109	The accumulation of silicon (Si) in the shoots varies considerably among plant species, but the mechanism responsible for this variation is poorly understood. The uptake system of Si was investigated in terms of the radial transport from the external solution to the root cortical cells and the release of Si from the cortical cells to the xylem in rice, cucumber, and tomato, which differ greatly in shoot Si concentration. Symplasmic solutions of the root tips were extracted by centrifugation. The concentrations of Si in the root-cell symplast in all species were higher than that in the external solution, although the concentration in rice was 3- and 5-fold higher than that in cucumber and tomato, respectively. A kinetic study showed that the radial transport of Si was mediated by a transporter with a K(m) value of 0.15 mM in all species, but with different V(max) values in the order of rice>cucumber>tomato. In the presence of the metabolic inhibitor 2,4-dinitrophenol, and at low temperature, the Si concentration in the root-cell symplast decreased to a level similar to that of the apoplasmic solution. These results suggest that both transporter-mediated transport and passive diffusion of Si are involved in the radial transport of Si and that the transporter-mediated transport is an energy-dependent process. The Si concentration of xylem sap in rice was 20- and 100-fold higher than that in cucumber and tomato, respectively. In contrast to rice, the Si concentration in the xylem sap was lower than that in the external solution in cucumber and tomato. A kinetic study showed that xylem loading of Si was also mediated by a kind of transporter in rice, but by passive diffusion in cucumber and tomato. These results indicate that a higher density of transporter for radial transport and the presence of a transporter for xylem loading are responsible for the high Si accumulation in rice.
15753140	Vitamin E is essential for normal neurological function. It is the major lipid-soluble, chain-breaking antioxidant in the body, protecting the integrity of membranes by inhibiting lipid peroxidation. Mostly on the basis of symptoms of primary vitamin E deficiency, it has been demonstrated that vitamin E has a central role in maintaining neurological structure and function. Orally supplemented vitamin E reaches the cerebrospinal fluid and brain. Vitamin E is a generic term for all tocopherols and their derivatives having the biological activity of RRR-alpha-tocopherol, the naturally occurring stereoisomer compounds with vitamin E activity. In nature, eight substances have been found to have vitamin E activity: alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-tocopherol; and alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-tocotrienol. Often, the term vitamin E is synonymously used with alpha-tocopherol. Tocotrienols, formerly known as zeta, , or eta-tocopherols, are similar to tocopherols except that they have an isoprenoid tail with three unsaturation points instead of a saturated phytyl tail. Although tocopherols are predominantly found in corn, soybean, and olive oils, tocotrienols are particularly rich in palm, rice bran, and barley oils. Tocotrienols possess powerful antioxidant, anticancer, and cholesterol-lowering properties. Recently, we have observed that alpha-tocotrienol is multi-fold more potent than alpha-tocopherol in protecting HT4 and primary neuronal cells against toxicity induced by glutamate as well as by a number of other toxins. At nanomolar concentration, tocotrienol, but not tocopherol, completely protected neurons by an antioxidant-independent mechanism. Our current work identifies two major targets of tocotrienol in the neuron: c-Src kinase and 12-lipoxygenase. Dietary supplementation studies have established that tocotrienol, fed orally, does reach the brain. The current findings point towards tocotrienol as a potent neuroprotective form of natural vitamin E.
15753569	Luzula spp, like the rest of the members of the Juncaceae family, have holocentric chromosomes. Using the rice 155-bp centromeric tandem repeat sequence (RCS2) as a probe, we have isolated and characterized a 178-bp tandem sequence repeat (LCS1) from Luzula nivea. The LCS1 sequence is present in all Luzula species tested so far (except L. pilosa) and like other satellite repeats found in heterochromatin, the cytosine residues are methylated within the LCS1 repeats. Using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) experiments we have shown that there are at least 5 large clusters of LCS1 sequences distributed at heterochromatin regions along each of the 12 chromosomes of L. nivea. We have shown that a centromeric antibody Skp1 co-localizes with these heterochromatin regions and with the LCS1 sequences. This suggests that the LCS1 sequences are part of regions which function as centromeres on these holocentric chromosomes. Furthermore, using the BrdU assay to identify replication sites, we have shown that these heterochromatin sites containing LCS1 associate when being replicated in root interphase nuclei. Our results also show premeiotic chromosome association during anther development as indicated by single-copy BAC in situ and the presence of fewer LCS1 containing heterochromatin sites in these cells.
15754209	The mitochondrial rps2 gene from barley, like that of rice, wheat, and maize, has an extended open reading frame (ORF) at the 3'-region when compared to that from lower plants. However, the extended portions are variable among these cereals. Since barley and wheat belong to the same tribe (Triticeae), it would be interesting to know when and where the two types of rps2 were generated during evolution. To determine this, we utilized the mitochondrial (mt) DNA sequence to examine variations of the rps2 genes in the tribe Triticeae. By means of the variable 3'-region, the distribution of barley (B)-type and wheat (W)-type rps2 sequences was studied in 19 genera of the tribe. The B-type sequence was identified in 10 of the 19 genera, whereas the W-type sequence was present in all 19 genera. Thus, ten of the examined genera have both types of rps2 sequences due to the presence of two copies of the gene. The W-type sequence was also present in the tribe Bromeae and the B-type sequence was also found in Aveneae and Poeae. Phylogenetic trees based on the B-type and W-type sequences were different from those based on other molecular data. This suggests that the mitochondrial genome in Triticeae has a unique evolutionary history.
15754490	We used a Simple Food Frequency Questionnaire (SFFQ) in combination with other dietary approaches to estimate the selenium intake from different food groups based on the average long-term diet, in two rural communities in Japan, one in a mountain area and the other in a coastal area. The intake frequencies of rice and wheat products were significantly different in the two districts. The intake frequencies of fish, meat, and eggs, which are rich in selenium, were not significantly different. The mean dietary selenium intake, estimated from the SFFQ and the 24-h recall method, was 82.7 microg/d (n=234) (range 19.2-180.1 microg/d) in the mountain community. The mean dietary selenium intake estimated from the SFFQ and average value of the normal portion size was 118.0 microg/d (n=123) (range 22.6-255.3 microg/d) in the coastal community. These estimated mean values exceeded the Japanese RDA, although the range of daily selenium intake was large. In the mountain community, fish made the largest contribution to dietary selenium intake (48.2% of daily total), followed by eggs (24.3%), and meat (17.0%). In the coastal community, fish accounted for 57.7% of daily total selenium intake, followed by meat (17.5%), and eggs (16.1%). In both districts, the total contribution of rice and wheat products was around 10%. It was found that the contribution of fish to dietary selenium intake was high and the contribution of cereals was low among Japanese.
15756294	(a) To measure iron absorption by human subjects from citric acid stabilized fish sauce fortified with ferrous sulfate, ferric ammonium citrate or ferrous lactate and (b) to identify the effect of added citric acid (3 g/l) on iron absorption from ferrous sulfate fortified fish sauce. Iron absorption from the intrinsically labeled compounds was determined via erythrocyte incorporation of isotopic labels ((57)Fe and (58)Fe) using a randomized crossover design. In three separate absorption studies, 10 adult women each consumed a basic test meal of rice and vegetable soup seasoned with isotopically labeled, iron fortified fish sauce. Iron absorption was significantly lower from ferrous lactate and from ferric ammonium citrate fortified fish sauce than from ferrous sulfate fortified fish sauce. Fractional iron absorption (geometric mean; -1s.d., +1s.d.) was 8.7(3.6; 21.4)% for ferrous lactate compared to 13.0(5.4; 31.4)% from ferrous sulfate, P = 0.003 (study 1) and 6.0(2.5; 14.3)% from ferric ammonium citrate relative to 11.7(4.4; 30.7)% from ferrous sulfate, P < 0.001, in study 2. Citric acid added at a molar ratio of approximately 2.5 to iron had no effect on iron absorption from ferrous sulfate (study 3). Iron absorption in the presence of citric acid was 14.1(6.4; 30.8)% compared to 12.0(5.8; 24.7)% in its absence (P = 0.26). Iron absorption was 50-100% higher from ferrous sulphate fortified fish sauce than from fish sauce fortified with ferric ammonium citrate or ferrous lactate. In the presence of citric acid as a chelator, ferrous sulfate would appear to be a useful fortificant for fish sauce. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Vienna, Austria.
15756834	Root rot and crown rot of rice is one of the important fungal diseases of rice in Gilan and Zanjan provinces, Iran. During 1999--2002, samples of plant and soil around the roots of infected rice plants were collected and used to identify the causal agent. Root and crown parts were surface sterilized with sodium hypochlorite and then cultured on PDA (potato dextrose agar), PPA (pepton pentacholoritobenzene agar) and CLA (carnation leaf agar) media. Soil samples prepared in water agar were used to isolate the pathogen. The causal agent was identified as Fusarium moniliforme. Colonies were initially white but turned violet to grey late. Microconidia were arranged in chain and macroconidia were cylindrical and long with 3-5 septa. The disease was severe in Zanjan province particularly along Ghezel Ozan river where the infection ranged from 70-80%. Root and crown rot was more prevalent in areas where Champa and Gerdeh were being cultivated continuously. On the other hand, Sadri cultivars had relatively less infection. Persistent cultivation of rice and seed sowing method intensified disease development and caused significant economic losses.
15756836	This study was carried out using 155 monoconidial isolates collected from different areas of two major rice growing provinces in northern Iran, including 94 isolates from Guilan and 59 isolates from Mazandaran. Among 94 isolates from Guilan, 92 and two isolates recovered from rice and crabgrass (Digitaria sp.), respectively. All 61 rested isolates from Mazandaran were recovered from rice. All isolates were evaluated for in vitro sexual fertility and mating type status by pairing with Mat 1-1 and Mat 1-2 fertile standard hermaphrodite isolates including Br48 and Th12 (Mat 1-1) and KA9 and TH16 (Mat 1-2). Of 155 isolates, 98 (63.2%) were fertile and 57 (36.8%) were infertile and produced no perithecium when mated with standard isolates. Among 98 fertile isolates, 96 isolates were identified as Mat 1-1 and two isolates as Mat 1-2. All Mat 1-1 isolates were obtained from rice and two Mat 1-2 isolates obtained from crab grass. No Mat 1-2 isolate was identified from rice in this study. Both mating types were found in Guilan but all isolates recovered from Mazandaran were identified as Mat 1-1. Male fertility predominated in fertile Mat 1-1 and Mat 1-2 isolates from all sampling sites in northern Iran, and no female fertility was detected. This is the first report of existence of Mat 1-2 allele in Magnaporthe grisea population in Iran.
15756856	Blast, caused by Magnaporthe grisea, is one of the most important diseases in rice production regions of the world including Iran. To determine progress of rice blast disease on the selective cultivars and lines also to assay some components of partial resistance, a set of Iranian rice cultivars (Local and breeding) along with near-isogenic lines (NILs) and breeding lines from International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) were tested with some field races of the fungus in blast nursery and five of selective races in greenhouse. These experiments were conducted in a Randomized complete Block Design (RCBD) with three replications (except greenhouse experiment on the leaves). Traits in this study consisted of Infection Neck Number (INN), Neck Lesion Size (NLS), Infection Type (IT), percent Diseased Leaf Area (DLA) and Area Under Disease Progress Curve (AUDPC); also IT, Sporulation Lesion Number (SLN), Sporulating Region Diameter (SRD) and percent DLA were measured in leaf blast in greenhouse (one replication). The Iranian local cultivars and NILs i.e. Co-39 and C104-PKT located as susceptible group for AUDPC, IT, INN and NLS. Iranian breeding cultivars, breeding lines from IRRI and NILs (except Co-39 and C104-PKT) were resistant or indicated hypersensivity reaction (HR). Some cultivars (Fujiminori, Onda, and Hassan Saraii) were semi susceptible to leaf blast in nursery. The main point is correlation in 1% (a = 0.0001) between the traits in greenhouse and blast nursery. Neck node infection of Haraz cultivar in greenhouse experiment to IA-89 race is very important, because Haraz is a resistant cultivar to blast disease in Iran.
15758097	Livestock manure is a significant source of atmospheric methane (CH4), especially during liquid storage. In liquid manure (slurry) storages a surface crust may form naturally, or an artificial surface crust can be established. We investigated whether there is a potential for CH4 oxidation in this environment. Surface crust materials were sampled from experimental storages with cattle slurry (with natural crust) or anaerobically digested cattle slurry (with straw layer) that had been stored with or without a wooden cover. Extracts of surface crust material were incubated with 5.6% CH4 in the headspace, and methanotrophic activity was demonstrated in all four treatments following a 4- to 10-d lag phase. Subsequent incubation of field-moist surface crust material with 350 microL L(-1) CH4 also showed CH4 oxidation, indicating a potential for CH4 removal under practical storage conditions. There was no CH4 oxidation activity during incubation of autoclaved samples. Methane oxidation rates were 0.1 to 0.5 mg kg(-1) organic matter (OM) h(-1), which is comparable with the activity in wetlands and rice paddies. Partial drying increased CH4 oxidation to 0.2 to 1.4 mg kg(-1) OM h(-1), probably as a result of improved diffusivity within the surface crust. Rewetting reversed the stimulation of methanotrophic activity in some treatments, but not in others, possibly due to a decline in CH4 production in anaerobic volumes, or to growth of methanotrophs during incubation. This study presents direct evidence for methanotrophic activity in slurry storages. Measures to ensure crust formation with or without a solid cover appear to be a cost-effective greenhouse gas mitigation option.
15759120	Cell-wall invertase (CIN) catalyzes the hydrolysis of sucrose into glucose and fructose for the supply of carbohydrates to sink organs via an apoplastic pathway. To study the CIN genes in rice (Oryza sativa L.), we isolated cDNA clones showing amino acid similarity to the plant cell wall invertase proteins from a search of rice sequence databases. Profile analyses revealed that the cloned genes are expressed in unique patterns in various organs. For example, transcripts of OsCIN1, OsCIN2, OsCIN4, and OsCIN7 were detected in immature seeds whereas OsCIN3 gene expression was flower-specific. Further transcript analysis of these genes expressed in developing seeds indicated that OsCIN1, OsCIN2, and OsCIN7 might play an important role involving sucrose partitioning to the embryo and endosperm. Sucrose, a substrate of CINs, induced the accumulation of OsCIN1 transcripts in excised leaves and OsCIN2 in immature seeds, while the level of OsCIN5 was significantly down-regulated in excised leaves treated with sucrose. Infecting the tissues with rice blast (Magnaporthe grisea) as a biotic stressor increased the expression of OsCIN1, OsCIN4, and OsCIN5, suggesting that these genes may participate in a switch in metabolism to resist pathogen invasion. These results demonstrate that OsCIN genes play diverse roles involving the regulation of metabolism, growth, development, and stress responses.
15759399	Due to the intensification of rice cultivation in Spain and the repeated use of herbicides as an effective tool to control weeds, one important fact is the appearance of resistant populations of weeds, which are no longer controlled effectively at field doses. Therefore, it is necessary to increase doses to such an extent as to produce phytotoxicity in the rice crop. In paddy fields in Badajoz (Spain), a few years ago, populations of Cyperus difformis resistant to bensulfuron-methyl appeared. In order to characterize this resistance, whole plant assays were carried out in fourteen populations, eight of them originating from treated Spanish paddy fields. The results were expressed as resistance factor (RF) = ED50(R)/ED50(S). Two populations of Cyperus difformis, resistant (R) and tolerant (T) to bensulfuron-methyl, displayed resistance factors greater than 30 and 12.5, respectively. Furthermore, in order to evaluate the existence of a possible cross-resistance, the recommended field doses of 3 other herbicides (imazamox, ethoxysulfuron and bentazone + MCPA) were applied to the plants. All populations were susceptible to both imazamox and bentazone + MCPA and two populations showed cross-resistance to ethoxysulfuron. ALS activity was assayed in vitro in four biotypes, the R/S ratios of the I50 values calculated indicate that resistance involves a reduction in the sensitivity of the ALS mainly in the R population (biotype 4) to bensulfuron-methyl and ethoxysulfuron, displaying R/S ratios of 37500 and 142857, respectively, which may be attributed to inherent differences in the ALS protein itself and/or in the stability of the enzyme.
15759424	The seasonal abundance and dynamics of potato-infesting aphids were studied in two seasons, on potato Solanum tuberosum L. with various types of transgenic and classical resistance to primary pests, especially the Colorado potato beetle (CPB), Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say). The lines tested were the NewLeaf potato, a transgenic expressing the Bacillus thuringiensis CryIIIA toxin (BTT); NYL 235-4 a parental line derived from S. berthaultii (NYL) with a high density of glandular trichomes; and a transgenic line expressing oryzacystatln I (OCI), a proteinase inhibitor gene from rice; potatoes from two commercial cultivars, Superior and Kennebec, served as controls. Over the two seasons, Macrosiphum euphorbiae (Thomas) and, to a lesser extent, Myzus persicae (Sulzer) were by far the most abundant aphids observed in the experimental plots. M. persicae was observed relatively late in the season, and was most abundant on the Kennebec-OCI potato. Macrosiphum euphorbiae was more regular over seasons, and its highest densities were observed on the NYL 235-4 line. The population of M. euphorbiae showed markedly different patterns on the five lines studied, which was clearly related to potato plant phenology. Density of M. euphorbiae was observed on the NYL 235-4 line, in late July and early August.
15759865	An advanced backcross population (BC3F2), derived from the cross between Yuanjiang common wild rice as the donor parent and Teqing as recurrent parent, was used to map QTLs controlling the number of vascular bundle and panicle-related traits from Yuanjiang common wild rice. Seven QTLs controlling the number of large vascular bundles in peduncle were detected on chromosome 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 and 10. Five QTLs for the number of small vascular bundles in peduncle were mapped on chromosome 1, 2, 3, 4 and 8. A total of 15 QTLs for the number of primary and secondary rachis branches and spikelets per panicle were identified on all chromosomes except chromosome 11 and 12. Most of alleles derived from O. rufipogon Griff. showed negative effect that reduced significantly vascular bundle, rachis branches and spikelets per panicle, suggesting that during the evolution from common wild rice to cultivated rice, favorable alleles were retained while removed undesirable ones. Most of QTLs controlling vascular bundle, rachis branches and spikelets per panicle showed cluster form or close linkage on chromosomes. The directions of their additive effects were consistent, which explained the genetic basis of significant correlation of their phenotypic characters. All the information suggested parallel evolution relationship among these traits.
15759866	Xa-25 was a bacterial blight resistance gene identified in a somaclonal mutant HX-3. A doubled-haploid (DH) population including 129 stable lines was derived from anther culture of a typical japanica 02428 and a typical indica HX-3 cross. The bacterial blight strain Zhe173, a typical bacterial blight strain in Yangtze River valley, was used to test the resistance or susceptible of the DH population lines, and the results showed that the resistance lines and susceptible lines were 62 and 67, respectively. A total of 300 SSR primer pairs covering 12 rice chromosomes were used for polymorphism survey of 02428 and HX-3. Among these primers, 74 showed polymorphism between the parents. Using these polymorphic SSR markers, bulked segregant analysis was conducted on the DH population. As the result, Xa-25 was located at the terminal region of the long arm of chromosome 4 between the two SSR markers RM6748 and RM1153, the map distance between Xa-25 and the two SSR markers was 9.3 cM and 3.0 cM, respectively.
15759867	The rice dwarf variety Aitaiyin3 is derived from a semidwarf cultivar Taiyin1. Genetic analysis indicated that the dwarf phenotype in Aitaiyin3 is involved in two recessive loci. Using bulk analysis with SSR markers, the two loci were located on the chromosome 1 and chromosome 4, respectively. Moreover, the allelism test showed that the locus on the chromosome 1 is allelic to the semidwarf gene sd1, while the other one is a new locus, here was named as sdt2. Further molecular mapping showed that sd1 was linked with SSR markers in the order of RM297-RM302-RM212-OSR3-sd1 with genetic distances of 4.7 cM, 0 cM, 0.8 cM and 0 cM, respectively. The linkage relationship of sdt2 with five SSR markers was SSR332-RM1305-sdt2-RM5633-RM307-RM401 with genetic distances of 11.6 cM, 3.8 cM, 0.4 cM, 0 cM and 0.4 cM, respectively.
15760088	Composite particles of rice starch (RS) and microcrystalline cellulose were fabricated by spray-drying technique to be used as a directly compressible excipient. Two size fractions of microcrystalline cellulose, sieved (MCS) and jet milled (MCJ), having volumetric mean diameter (D50) of 13.61 and 40.51 microm, respectively, were used to form composite particles with RS in various mixing ratios. The composite particles produced were evaluated for their powder and compression properties. Although an increase in the microcrystalline cellulose proportion imparted greater compressibility of the composite particles, the shape of the particles was typically less spherical with rougher surface resulting in a decrease in the degree of flowability. Compressibility of composite particles made from different size fractions of microcrystalline cellulose was not different; however, using MCJ, which had a particle size range close to the size of RS (D50 = 13.57 microm), provided more spherical particles than using MCS. Spherical composite particles between RS and MCJ in the ratio of 7:3 (RS-MCJ-73) were then evaluated for powder properties and compressibility in comparison with some marketed directly compressible diluents. Compressibility of RS-MCJ-73 was greater than commercial spray-dried RS (Eratab), coprocessed lactose and microcrystalline cellulose (Cellactose), and agglomerated lactose (Tablettose), but, as expected, lower than microcrystalline cellulose (Vivapur 101). Flowability index of RS-MCJ-73 appeared to be slightly lower than Eratab but higher than Vivapur 101, Cellactose, and Tablettose. Tablets of RS-MCJ-73 exhibited low friability and good self-disintegrating property. It was concluded that these developed composite particles could be introduced as a new coprocessed direct compression excipient.
15762007	QTLs for milled rice length (MRL), cooked rice length (CRL) and cooked rice elongation (CRE) were identified by using a population of 127 DH lines derived from a cross between ZYQ8 and JX17. Totally, 14 QTLs for rice elongation traits were detected on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 12. Two putative QTLs for MRL were mapped on chromosomes 2. Seven putative QTLs for CRL were mapped on chromosomes 1, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 12. Five putative QTLs for CRE were mapped on chromosomes 5, 6, and 10. The regions of G249-G164 on chromosome 3, G30-RZ516 on chromosome 6 and G1082-GA223 on chromosome 10 were detected simultaneously for affecting cooked rice length and cooke rice elongation. LODs of the QTLs related to rice elongation varied from 2.26 to 9.25, and their explained variations from 5.31% to 17.21% . It is indicated that cooked rice elongation was controlled by polygene and Wx-gene located on the same region with qCRE-6 was important to cooked rice elongation.
15762314	This study aimed to elucidate gender differences in dietary intake of rural Bangladeshi adults. A food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) survey using 15 food/dish items, together with anthropometric measurements, was conducted for 230 adults and adolescents (95 males and 135 females). To estimate the portion sizes of these foods/dishes, the samples consumed by 25 subjects were weighed. The FFQ revealed that rice was eaten two to three times (or more) per day by 98% of the subjects, providing nearly 60% of energy for both sexes. Puri (fried bread), meats, eggs, pulses, milk, fresh vegetables, fruits, tea with milk and sugar, and soft drinks were consumed more frequently by males. Males' larger portion sizes of rice, fish dish, potato dish, and vegetable dish resulted in larger daily energy intake per body weight in males (235 +/- 41 kJ/kg) than in females (161 +/- 28 kJ/kg). Despite males' larger energy intake, the proportion of chronically energy deficient persons (<18.5 kg/m2 in body mass index) was similar between males (35.8%) and females (37.8%), attributing to males' larger energy expenditure. Females' less-frequent consumption of nutritious foods and smaller energy intake were considered vulnerable to micronutrient deficiency.
15762467	A rapid and non-destructive method was used to discriminate between calligraphies by means of Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and FT-Raman spectroscopy in this paper. In order to discriminate two real calligraphies of Ouyang Zhong-shi from two counterfeit ones, the authors investigated the inkpad and the rice paper of the calligraphies by means of FT-Raman spectroscopy and tested the inkpad and the ink mark of the calligraphies by means of FTIR spectroscopy. It could be seen that the tiny, delicated varied chemical components of the real and the counterfeit calligraphies lead to different characters in vibration frequencies of IR and Raman functional groups and also the real calligraphies have the perfect reiteration. So the authors can discriminate between the real and the counterfeit calligraphies. It is proved that FTIR and FT-Raman are useful in the non-destructive identification of calligraphies and more precise and quicker than traditional approaches.
15762520	Direct burning of crop straw in the field has given or is giving rise to a serious pollution of atmosphere. The difficult decomposing of the crop straw by soil microorganisms is one of the reasons the crop straw is not popularly used in agriculture. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) was used to study the changes in straw composition during the relay treatment of chemical-microbial process. The results showed that the method of FTIR spectra could indicate the changes in straw composition during the treatment processes. After the relay treatment of chemical-microbial process, the contents of cellulose, semi-cellulose, and silicon, and C/N ratio were decreased significantly, while the water soluble substances were increased, which was in accordance with the results of chemical analysis. The method to treat crop straw proposed in this paper could provide a practicable way in agricultural utilization of crop straw.
15763668	Protocols for isolation of gametes of Oryza sativa were developed and initial results on in vitro fusion of sperm and egg cells are reported. The best yield of viable sperm cells was obtained when pollen grains were cultured in a medium containing of 1.3 mM boric acid, 3.6 mM calcium chloride, 0.74 mM potassium phosphate, and 438 mM sucrose. Embryo sacs were isolated using cell wall degrading enzyme treatments for 2-5 h followed by mechanical manipulation. The maximum yield (38.2%) of egg cell was achieved when 2% cellulase and 0.55% pectinase were used in the medium. However, the optimum concentration of cellulase and pectinase was found to be 1% and 0.85%, respectively. Fluorescein diacetate (FDA) stain was used to determine the viable sperm and egg cells. The optimal procedures (fusion conditions) for gametes fusion occurred in a medium containing calcium chloride at a concentration of 7 mM (pH 7.5) and the best result obtained (55.5%) in terms of fused gametes, is reported.
15764334	The objective was to conduct a dietary risk assessment of pesticides registered in Brazil up to 14 January 2004. The theoretical maximum daily intake (TMDI) was calculated for 275 compounds using the Brazilian maximum residue limits (MRL) and food consumption. The chronic dietary risk assessment was conducted by comparing the TMDI with the Brazilian acceptable daily intake (ADI) or, when not available, with the ADI from other sources. The TMDI was higher than the ADI (%ADI>100) in at least one Brazilian region for eight pesticides, including five organophosphorus insecticides. For these compounds, the higher TMDI (expressed as %ADI) ranged from 140 (metam sodium) to 14,000 (methyl bromide). Rice, beans, citrus and tomato were the commodities that contributed most to ingestion. Change in pesticide use patterns and the establishment of ADIs by the Brazilian government have reduced the number of compounds for which the TMDI exceeded the ADI in the last 4 years. Risk assessment methodology based on TMDI calculation, however, is conservative as it assumes that the food supply is always treated with all the registered pesticides for that crop and that one always consumes food containing residues at the tolerance level. Furthermore, for six compounds with TMDI exceeding the ADI, a more realistic estimation of the pesticide daily intake was conducted using monitoring residue data from the Brazilian National Pesticide Residue Program. For these compounds, the higher refined intakes ranged from 2% (dimethoate) to 180% (fenitrothion) of the ADIs. The implementation of a national pesticide residue monitoring programme by the government was important to allow the refinement of the risk assessment. However, adequate daily food consumption data are still needed to assess better the public health risk to Brazilian consumers from food produced from crops treated with pesticides.
15764340	The performance of the newly developed Mycosep 229 Ochra and Multisep 229 Ochra clean-up columns for ochratoxin A (OTA) determination was evaluated. OTA was subsequently analysed using RP-HPLC with fluorescence detection. Recoveries for frequently contaminated commodities, like cereals, red wine, raisins and green coffee, were estimated. The recoveries obtained for the Mycosep 229 Ochra column were in the range from 87.9 +/- 12.5% (n = 6) for wheat to 99.4 +/- 2.7% (n = 24) for raisins. For Multisep 229 Ochra, recoveries from 76.5 +/- 8.0% (n = 6) for barley to 86.4 +/- 1.4% (n = 24) for raisins were achieved. Limits of detection for all matrices investigated (maize, wheat, rice, barley, raisins, green coffee beans, red wine) were in the range 0.4-2.4 microg kg(-1). The trueness of the method was tested using a certified reference material.
15764813	A differential display of proteins with a two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis approach was used to analyze protein expression changes during development of the basal region in rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). The proteins were detected as 700 Coomassie Brilliant Blue-stained spots with pI values from around 3.5 to 9.0. A proteome reference map was established for the basal region of two-week-old seedlings. The basal region proteome map was used to analyze quantitative variations in the tissue during development from 2-, 4-, 6-, 8-, and 10-week-old seedlings. During development, 31 proteins were up-regulated, and 30 proteins were down-regulated compared with the 2-week-old basal region proteome map. The main functions of these proteins were primary metabolism and protein synthesis or maintenance. Calreticulin precursor, enolase, and voltage-dependent anion channel were identified among the up- and down-regulated proteins. The twin spots of calreticulin precursor and enolase with different pI values are possibly due to post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation. In addition, seven proteins showed developmental stage-specific expression. All of the developmentally regulated proteins of the basal region were clustered by the S-system, a differential equation that fit to time course of cluster and analyzed for cluster relationships. Proteins with unknown functions were tentatively assigned to functional groups based on cluster relationships. Basal region development proteome data will be valuable for resolving questions in functional genomics. In addition, cluster analysis of the basal region proteome during development will be useful for the assessment of functional proteins.
15765224	In order to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for leaf senescence and related traits in rice (Oryza sativa L.), we developed two backcross populations, indica/japonica// japonica and indica/japonica//indica, using IR36 as the indica parent and Nekken-2 as the japonica parent. The QTLs were mapped using a set of simple sequence-repeat markers (SSRs) in the BC(1)F(1) population. Senescence was characterized in these plants by measuring the leaf chlorophyll content 25 days after flowering (DAF), the reduction in chlorophyll content (the difference between the chlorophyll content at flowering and at 25 DAF), and the number of late-discoloring leaves per panicle at 25 DAF in five plants from each BC(1)F(2) line. These plants were moved into a temperature-controlled growth cabinet at the time of flowering and allowed to mature under identical conditions. Eleven QTLs were detected in the two populations. The major of QTLs for senescence were found on the short arm of chromosome 6 and on the long arm of chromosome 9. Of these, one QTL on chromosome 6 and two on chromosome 9 were verified by confirming the effects of the genotypes on the phenotypes of the BC(1)F(3) lines. The japonica parent was found to contribute to late senescence at all but one QTL. Based on a comparison of the effects of heterozygotes and homozygotes on the phenotypic values of each QTL genotype, we concluded that the differential senescence observed in the indica-japonica hybrid was not due to over-dominance; rather, it was the result of partial-dominance genes that were donated from either of the parents.
15766200	This paper studied the 1H NMR spectrum change of Guangdong rice wine. Three kinds of rice wine were studied: raw wine, finished product wine and electric-field-treated wine (40 kV x m(-1), 50 Hz, 180 min). Results showed that many weak peaks appeared in raw wine's CH3- and -CH2- peaks in contrast to the other two samples, reflecting that single molecules and various kinds of hydrogen-bonded clusters coexisted in the raw wine, and many kinds of organic compounds also contributed to forming peaks. As to the peaks of hydroxide H, the peak forms of the three samples were level, single sharp and irregular, respectively (raw, finished product and electric-field-treated wine). The level peak of raw wine inferved that there were two kinds of hydroxide H existed, one was involved in forming hydrogen bonds, while the other was not. The single sharp peak of finished product wine showed that single stable large hydrogen-bonded clusters were formed in the wine, and the irregular peak of electric-field-treated wine illustrated that there might exist various kinds of hydrogen-bonded clusters, whose main structure was similar to that of the finished product wine.
15767322	The asymmetric distribution of auxin plays a fundamental role in plant gravitropism, yet little is understood about how its lateral distribution stimulates growth. In the present work, the asymmetric distribution not only of auxin, but also that of gibberellins (GAs), was observed in rice leaf sheath bases following gravistimulation. Gravistimulation induced the transient accumulation of greater amounts of both IAA and GA in the lower halves of the leaf sheath bases of rice seedlings. OsGA3ox1, a gene of active GA synthesis, was differentially induced by gravistimulation. Furthermore, 2,3,5-tri-iodobenzoic acid (TIBA), an inhibitor of auxin transport, substantially decreased the asymmetric distribution of IAA and the gradient of OsGA3ox1 expression. Externally applied GA(3) restored the gravitropic curvature of rice leaf sheaths inhibited by either TIBA or by ancymidol, a GA synthesis inhibitor. The expression of XET (encoding xyloglucan endotransglycosylase) was differentially induced in the lower halves of gravistimulated leaf sheath bases and was also up-regulated by exogenous IAA and GA(3). Both ancymidol and TIBA decreased the gradient of XET expression. These data suggest that the asymmetric distribution of auxin effected by gravistimulation induced a gradient of GAs via asymmetric expression of OsGA3ox1 in rice leaf sheath bases, and hence caused the asymmetric expression of XET. Cell wall loosening in the curvature site of the leaf sheath triggered by the expression of XET would contribute to gravitropic growth.
15767586	The carpel is the female reproductive organ specific to flowering plants. We aim to define the genes that controlled carpel development in the common ancestor of this group as a step toward determining the molecular events that were responsible for the evolution of the carpel. CRABS CLAW (CRC) and TOUSLED (TSL) control important aspects of carpel development in the model plant, Arabidopsis thaliana. The basal angiosperm species Amborella trichopoda and Cabomba aquatica very likely represent the two most early diverging groups of flowering plants. We have identified putative orthologues of CRC and TSL from A. trichopoda and C. aquatica, respectively. We demonstrate the expression patterns of these genes in carpels to be very highly conserved, both spatially and temporally, with those of their Arabidopsis orthologues. We argue that CRC and TSL in Arabidopsis are likely to have conserved their respective roles in carpel development since the common ancestor of the living flowering plants. We conclude that a divergent role shown for the CRC orthologue in rice, DROOPING LEAF, most probably arose specifically in the monocot lineage. We show that, in addition to its expression in carpels, the TSL orthologue of C. aquatica is expressed in tissues that contribute to buoyancy and argue that its role in these tissues may have arisen later than its role in carpel development.
15768737	Atrazine is a widely used herbicide, and its persistence in soil and water causes environmental concerns. In the past, plant uptake processes are mainly investigated for single contaminants. However, in many cases, contaminants co-exist in environmental matrix, such as soil, and plant uptake of one contaminant may be influenced by its co-existing ones. The uptake of atrazine by rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) from nutrient solution through the roots was investigated in a solution culture, over an exposure period of 4 weeks. Atrazine accumulation in plant tissues was determined by gas chromatography, and lead was determined using atomic absorption spectrometry. With different ratios of atrazine and Pb2+ concentrations in solution, the observed atrazine concentrations in shoots and roots varied significantly. In atrazine-Pb2+ mixture systems, the added Pb2+ either increased or decreased the concentrations or BCFs of atrazine in seedlings (relative to those without Pb2+), depending on the atrazine-Pb2+ ratio in nutrient solution. The enhanced atrazine uptake results presumably from atrazine-Pb2+ complex formation. The reduced atrazine uptake, which occurred mainly at high atrazine concentrations, is attributed to atrazine toxicity that inhibited seedling growth and transpiration. The formation of atrazine-Pb2+ complex both in the solution and within plant tissues may affect the accumulation of both contaminants by rice plants.
15768888	In order to establish the foundation for modernization of Chinese herbal medicine, discovery of the functional genes related with the bioactive components of Chinese herbs and the rules of their expression was progressed for determining the regulatory mechanism, obtaining the core metabolic pathway and key regulatory factors of the medicinal components synthesis. In this article, the studies about plant's functional genes at home and abroad was introduced in three aspects: the pattern plants (rice, thaliana, etc.), the main technologic strategy (gene expression differentia, sequential tag of gene expression, DNA microarray technique and gene expression sequential analysis) and bio-informative method (comparative genomics). The current status of researches involving biosynthesis genes of flavonoids compounds and taxol, and the plant P450 genes were introduced. And the study of dendrobium functional genes conducted in authors' lab was also reviewed.
15769027	It was reported in this paper that trace mercury in rice was determined by microwave digestion-hydride generation-atomic fluorescence spectrometry. The microwave digestion of samples was used, and the optimum conditions for the digestion were developed. The relative factors of hydride generation atomic fluorescence spectrometry for the determination were tested and discussed. The temperature and the relative humidity were discussed too. The detection limit was 0.005 ng x mL(-1). Mercury in reference materials (rice flour, GBW 08508) was determined also by the described method. The result obtained was in good agreement with standard value. The relative standard deviation (RSD) was 2.1%, and the recovery of mercury in rice samples was 95.2%-106.4%.
15770452	An ELISA Microtiter Plate, Total Aflatoxin Test called AgraQuant was validated to measure total aflatoxins in a range from 4 to 40 ppb in corn, corn meal, corn gluten feed, corn gluten meal, corn germ meal, corn/soy blend, popcorn, sorghum, wheat, milled rice, soybeans, peanuts and cottonseed. The test is performed as a solid phase direct competitive ELISA using a horseradish peroxidase conjugate as the competing, measurable entity. For the test method, aflatoxins are extracted from ground samples with 70% methanol and sample extracts plus conjugate are mixed and then added to the antibody-coated microwells. After 15 min incubation at room temperature, the plate is washed and enzyme substrate is added and allowed to incubate for an additional 5 min. Stop solution is then added and the intensity of the resulting yellow color is measured optically with a microplate reader at 450 nm. Results obtained from internal validation studies assessing accelerated stability indicate a minimum of 1 year shelf life for the kits; accuracy and precision are comparable to HPLC in the range of 0-320 ppb and limit of detection in corn is 2.5 ppb. Comparison of the method to HPLC, ability to detect individual aflatoxins and ruggedness of the test kits at 18-30 degrees C determined this test to be rugged, sensitive, accurate, precise and effective comparable to HPLC for measuring total aflatoxins ranging from 4 to 40 ppb in the commodities evaluated.
15770680	It has been known for some time that plant transposons can capture and mobilize cellular genes. Recent work by Jiang and coworkers((1)) has revealed that this process has happened on a massive scale. They found that portions of more than 1000 genes in rice have been captured and mobilized by members of the MULE family of transposons. In rice, and perhaps other plants as well, it appears that thousands of genes and portions of genes have been duplicated, transposed and rearranged. These results have fascinating implications for our understanding of the mode and tempo of gene evolution in plants.
15773302
15773358	The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy, efficiency and patient well-being of endoscopic radical nephrectomy (ERN) with those of open radical nephrectomy (ORN) in patients with stage T1 and stage T2 renal cell carcinoma during the period from 1995 to 2003. Eighty-four patients including 53 patients receiving ERN and 31 patients receiving ORN were evaluated. The two groups were analyzed for sex, side of tumor, clinical stage, age, tumor diameter, operative time, operative blood loss, postoperative time to oral intake and ambulation. There was no difference in patient background between the ERN and ORN groups. Although the mean operative times between the ORN and ERN group were not different (mean 240 versus 267 min. in ERN group, P N .S.), ERN patients had significantly less operative blood loss (mean 123 versus 469 ml. in ERN group, P < 0.01), significantly shorter time to start the oral intake of rice gruel (mean 1.4 versus 4.6 days. in ERN group, P < 0.01) and significantly shorter time to ambulation (mean 1.2 versus 3.1 days. in ERN group, P < 0.01). These findings revealed that endoscopic radical nephrectomy for the patients with stage T1 and T2 renal cell carcinoma appears to be associated with less morbidity and faster recovery rather than open radical nephrectomy.
15774688	A Gram-positive, endospore-forming, xylanase-producing bacterium isolated from a rice field was studied taxonomically. The strain grows at 10-40 degrees C and in the presence of lysozyme or 5 % (w/v) NaCl. Chemotaxonomic analysis revealed that MK-7 was the predominant menaquinone of the isolated strain, while the major fatty acid was anteiso-C(15 : 0). Comparison of 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain BP-23(T) fell within the radiation of the cluster comprising Paenibacillus species. The highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities were found with Paenibacillus illinoisensis (97.4 %), Paenibacillus pabuli (97.1 %) and Paenibacillus amylolyticus (96.9 %). The DNA-DNA relatedness of strain BP-23(T) with respect to these three species was very low (32.7, 31.6 and 23.0 %, respectively). On the basis of phenotypic and genotypic data, strain BP-23(T) should be placed in the genus Paenibacillus and designated a novel species, for which the name Paenibacillus barcinonensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is BP-23(T) (=CECT 7022(T)=DSM 15478(T)).
15774873	In Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight of rice, HrpXo is known to be a transcriptional regulator for the hypersensitive response and pathogenicity (hrp) genes. Several HrpXo regulons are preceded by a consensus sequence (TTCGC-N(15)-TTCGC), called the plant-inducible promoter (PIP) box, which is required for expression of the gene that follows. Thus, the PIP box can be an effective marker for screening HrpXo regulons from the genome database. It is not known, however, whether mutations in the PIP box cause a complete loss of promoter activity. In this study, we introduced base substitutions at each of the consensus nucleotides in the PIP box of the hrpC operon in X. oryzae pv. oryzae, and the promoter activity was examined by using a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. Although the GUS activity was generally reduced by base substitutions, several mutated PIP boxes conferred considerable promoter activity. In several cases, even imperfect PIP boxes with two base substitutions retained 20% of the promoter activity found in the nonsubstituted PIP box. We screened HrpXo regulon candidates with an imperfect PIP box obtained from the genome database of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and found that at least two genes preceded by an imperfect PIP box with two base substitutions were actually expressed in an HrpXo-dependent manner. These results indicate that a base substitution in the PIP box is quite permissible for HrpXo-dependent expression and suggest that X. oryzae pv. oryzae may possess more HrpXo regulons than expected.
1577640
15777753	MDL 28170 is a CNS-penetrating calpain inhibitor, and we examined the effects of MDL 28170 on hypoxic-ischemic brain injury in immature brain using the Rice-Vannucci model. Immediately after hypoxic exposure, 24 mg/kg of MDL 28170 was injected intraperitoneally as an initial dose, followed by 12 mg/kg every 4 h for a total dose of 60 mg/kg over 12 h post-HI. A vehicle control group received peanut oil injection instead. Macroscopic evaluation of brain injury revealed the neuroprotective effect of MDL 28170 after 12 h post-HI. Neuropathological quantitative analysis of cell death showed that MDL 28170 significantly decreased the number of necrotic cells in all the examined regions except for cingular cortex, and the number of apoptotic cells in caudate putamen, parietal cortex, hippocampus CA1, and laterodorsal thalamus. Western blots showed that MDL 28170 suppressed 145/150 kDa subunits of alpha-spectrin breakdown products (SBDP) in cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, and striatum, and also 120-kDa subunit of SBDP in all regions except for striatum. This suggests that MDL 28170 inhibited activation of calpain and caspase-3, respectively. Our results indicate that post-hypoxic MDL 28170 injection is neuroprotective in HI newborn rat brain by decreasing both necrosis and apoptosis. SBDP expression also suggests that MDL 28170 injection inhibits both calpain and caspase-3 activation after HI insult.
15778014	Using flow cytometry, we quantitatively evaluated anti-tumor-promoting activity of rice bran extracts by measuring inhibition of Epstein-Barr virus early-antigen activation (EBV-EA) induced by the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). This assay measures anti-tumor-promoting activity and cytotoxicity of target substances using the same batch of cells. Using this short-term procedure, we have determined the anti-tumor-promoting activity of 70% ethanol-water extracts of bran (outer layer) from seeds of five pigmented rice cultivars: Jumlalocal-1, DZ 78, Elwee, LK1-3-6-12-1-1, and LK1A-2-12-1-1. The results show that, compared to an extract from the non-pigmented white cooking rice variety Chuchung, the extracts from the pigmented varieties strongly inhibited phorbol ester-induced tumor promotion in marmoset lymphoblastoid cells B95-8 in vitro. These findings may facilitate development and use of new health-promoting rice varieties.
15778015	We investigated a dose-dependent hypolipidemic and antioxidant effect of tocotrienol rich fraction (TRF) isolated from rice bran oil on experimentally induced hyperlipidemic rats. Feeding of atherogenic diet (5% hydrogenated fat, 0.5% cholic acid and 1% cholesterol) for three weeks resulted in a significant increase in plasma triglyceride (3.3-fold) and total cholesterol (2.4-fold) levels. There was a 5-fold increase in the level of LDL cholesterol with only a small increase in HDL cholesterol. On the other hand, HMG-CoA reductase activity was significantly reduced in these animals. The formation of TBARS, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, (86%) and conjugated dienes (78%) were also significantly higher in these rats compared to normals. After the induction of hyperlipidemia for three weeks, rats were supplemented with different doses of TRF for one week. TRF supplementation decreased the lipid parameters in a dose-dependent manner with an optimum effect at a dose of 8 mg TRF/kg/day. HMG-CoA reductase activity, which was increased after the withdrawal of atherogenic diet, remained significantly decreased during the TRF treatment. Feeding of TRF also decreased TBARS and conjugated dienes significantly. These results suggest that TRF supplementation has significant health benefits through the modulation of physiological functions that include various atherogenic lipid profiles and antioxidants in hypercholesterolemia.
15778459	The model plants Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) have provided a wealth of information about genes and genetic pathways controlling the flowering process, but little is known about the corresponding pathways in legumes. The garden pea (Pisum sativum) has been used for several decades as a model system for physiological genetics of flowering, but the lack of molecular information about pea flowering genes has prevented direct comparison with other systems. To address this problem, we have searched expressed sequence tag and genome sequence databases to identify flowering-gene-related sequences from Medicago truncatula, soybean (Glycine max), and Lotus japonicus, and isolated corresponding sequences from pea by degenerate-primer polymerase chain reaction and library screening. We found that the majority of Arabidopsis flowering genes are represented in pea and in legume sequence databases, although several gene families, including the MADS-box, CONSTANS, and FLOWERING LOCUS T/TERMINAL FLOWER1 families, appear to have undergone differential expansion, and several important Arabidopsis genes, including FRIGIDA and members of the FLOWERING LOCUS C clade, are conspicuously absent. In several cases, pea and Medicago orthologs are shown to map to conserved map positions, emphasizing the closely syntenic relationship between these two species. These results demonstrate the potential benefit of parallel model systems for an understanding of flowering phenology in crop and model legume species.
1578099	Various electrolytes and energy intakes have been shown to contribute to the risk of hypertension and other cardiovascular diseases. Further, dietary sodium (Na) and potassium (K) balance are important in both nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic management of various cardiovascular states. Emphasis is also given to weight reduction and electrolyte balance. As an aid to food selection to enhance K intake and decrease Na intake, we have categorized foods according to their electrolyte density as related to caloric content. More than 100 individual food items were assigned to one of four categories. Ratios of individual Na, K, and energy content were calculated, based on USDA-generated food nutrient values. Category 1 includes foods that are low in Na, high in K and low in energy: fresh or frozen vegetable sources with vitamins A and C. Category 2 contains foods low in Na relative to high K and high energy: most fruit, starchy vegetables, nuts, milk and meat products, and chocolate. Category 3 includes foods high in Na that are also high in K in relation to low energy: vegetables (canned, frozen in butter sauce or au gratin), most cheeses, cured or frozen meats. Category 4 contains foods high in Na and low in K relative to high energy: bread, rice, luncheon meats, commercial cookies and pastries, and fast food entrees. Commercial cereals could be differentiated by the guidelines, with bran cereals in Category 1, shredded wheat products in Category 2, fruit-containing cereals in Category 3, and presweetened or instant cereals in Category 4. Identification of the ratio of Na and K to content of foods, compared with relative energy ratio, is useful in selecting foods that will help meet specific dietary criteria for management of essential hypertension and other cardiovascular-renal states, both in the adult and pediatric populations.
15781441	Rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) utilize the iron chelators known as mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs) to acquire iron from the rhizosphere. Synthesis of MAs and uptake of MA-chelated iron are strongly induced under conditions of iron deficiency. Microarray analysis was used to characterize the expression profile of rice in response to iron deficiency at the genomic level. mRNA extracted from iron-deficient or iron-sufficient rice roots or leaves was hybridized to a rice array containing 8987 cDNA clones. An induction ratio of greater than 2.0 in roots was observed for 57 genes, many of which are involved in iron-uptake mechanisms, including every identified or predicted step in the methionine cycle and the biosynthesis of MAs from methionine. Northern analysis confirmed that the expression of genes encoding every step in the methionine cycle is thoroughly induced by iron deficiency in roots, and almost thoroughly induced in leaves. A promoter search revealed that the iron-deficiency-induced genes related to iron uptake possessed sequences homologous to the iron-deficiency-responsive cis-acting elements IDE1 and IDE2 in their promoter regions, at a higher rate than that showing no induction under Fe deficiency. These results suggest that rice genes involved in iron acquisition are co-ordinately regulated by conserved mechanisms in response to iron deficiency, in which IDE-mediated regulation plays a significant role.
15782297	Seed dormancy in rice interrelates to the weedy characteristics shattering, awn, black hull color, and red pericarp color. A cross between the weedy strain SS18-2 and the breeding line EM93-1 was developed to investigate the genetic basis and adaptive significance of these interrelationships. These characteristics or their components differed in average degree of dominance from -0.8 to 1.5, in heritability from 0.5 to 0.96, and in their contribution to phenotypic or genotypic variation in dormancy by up to 25%. Five dormancy, four shattering, and three awn-length quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were detected in the BC1 population replicated in 2 years. Two QTLs for hull color were identified, and the SS18-2-derived and EM93-1-derived alleles increased the intensity of black, and red or yellow pigmentations, respectively. The only QTL for pericarp color co-located with the red pericarp gene Rc, with the SS18-2-derived allele increasing the intensity of black and red pigmentations. Four of the five dormancy QTLs were flanked or bracketed by one to four QTLs for the interrelated characteristics. The QTL organization pattern indicates the central role of seed dormancy in adaptive syndromes for non-domesticated plants, implies that the elimination of dormancy from cultivars could arise from the selections against multiple interrelated characteristics, and challenges the use of dormancy genes at these loci in breeding varieties for resistance to pre-harvest sprouting (PHS). However, another QTL (qSD12) provides candidate gene(s) for PHS resistance because it has a large effect in the population and it is independent of the loci for interrelated characteristics.
15782963	Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) with ultraviolet diode array detection (UV-DAD) was used for the simultaneous determination of four flavone C-glucosides, i.e. orientin, homoorientin, vitexin and isovitexin in several food systems fortified by the antioxidant of bamboo leaves (AOB), such as high temperature sterilized milk, sunflower seed oil and extruded rice cake for the first time. The method included extraction of flavone C-glucosides from AOB-fortified foods by methanol aqueous solution, deproteinating with saturated lead acetate solution and potassium oxalate, defatting with n-hexane and clean-up by solid-phase extraction (SPE) with Phenomenex C18 cartridges. Analytes were separated with Luna C18 5 microm 250mm x 4.6mm column using acetonitrile and 1% (v/v) acetic acid (pH 3.0) as mobile phase. Good results were obtained with respect to repeatability (relative standard deviation (RSD)< 2.2%) and recovery (81.4-91.8%) which fulfilled the requirements defined by European Union (EU) legislation. The total amounts of four flavone C-glucosides were 12.56 microg/100 mL, 881.08 microg/100 mL and 1420.83 microg/100 g dry weight in AOB-fortified sterilized milk, sunflower seed oil and extruded rice cake, respectively. The method was successfully applied to the analysis of flavone C-glucosides in AOB-fortified samples. The optimized procedure could also be referenced for the separation of flavone C-glucosides in other fortified foodstuffs.
15784153	The moss Physcomitrella patens is an emerging plant model system due to its high rate of homologous recombination, haploidy, simple body plan, physiological properties as well as phylogenetic position. Available EST data was clustered and assembled, and provided the basis for a genome-wide analysis of protein encoding genes. We have clustered and assembled Physcomitrella patens EST and CDS data in order to represent the transcriptome of this non-seed plant. Clustering of the publicly available data and subsequent prediction resulted in a total of 19,081 non-redundant ORF. Of these putative transcripts, approximately 30% have a homolog in both rice and Arabidopsis transcriptome. More than 130 transcripts are not present in seed plants but can be found in other kingdoms. These potential "retained genes" might have been lost during seed plant evolution. Functional annotation of these genes reveals unequal distribution among taxonomic groups and intriguing putative functions such as cytotoxicity and nucleic acid repair. Whereas introns in the moss are larger on average than in the seed plant Arabidopsis thaliana, position and amount of introns are approximately the same. Contrary to Arabidopsis, where CDS contain on average 44% G/C, in Physcomitrella the average G/C content is 50%. Interestingly, moss orthologs of Arabidopsis genes show a significant drift of codon fraction usage, towards the seed plant. While averaged codon bias is the same in Physcomitrella and Arabidopsis, the distribution pattern is different, with 15% of moss genes being unbiased. Species-specific, sensitive and selective splice site prediction for Physcomitrella has been developed using a dataset of 368 donor and acceptor sites, utilizing a support vector machine. The prediction accuracy is better than those achieved with tools trained on Arabidopsis data. Analysis of the moss transcriptome displays differences in gene structure, codon and splice site usage in comparison with the seed plant Arabidopsis. Putative retained genes exhibit possible functions that might explain the peculiar physiological properties of mosses. Both the transcriptome representation (including a BLAST and retrieval service) and splice site prediction have been made available on http://www.cosmoss.org, setting the basis for assembly and annotation of the Physcomitrella genome, of which draft shotgun sequences will become available in 2005.
15785851	Genetic studies in Lotus japonicus and pea have identified Nin as a core symbiotic gene required for establishing symbiosis between legumes and nitrogen fixing bacteria collectively called Rhizobium. Sequencing of additional Lotus cDNAs combined with analysis of genome sequences from Arabidopsis and rice reveals that Nin homologues in all three species constitute small gene families. In total, the Arabidopsis and rice genomes encode nine and three NIN-like proteins (NLPs), respectively. We present here a bioinformatics analysis and prediction of NLP evolution. On a genome scale we show that in Arabidopsis, this family has evolved through segmental duplication rather than through tandem amplification. Alignment of all predicted NLP protein sequences shows a composition with six conserved modules. In addition, Lotus and pea NLPs contain segments that might characterize NIN proteins of legumes and be of importance for their function in symbiosis. The most conserved region in NLPs, the RWP-RK domain, has secondary structure predictions consistent with DNA binding properties. This motif is shared by several other small proteins in both Arabidopsis and rice. In rice, the RWP-RK domain sequences have diversified significantly more than in Arabidopsis. Database searches reveal that, apart from its presence in Arabidopsis and rice, the motif is also found in the algae Chlamydomonas and in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Thus, the origin of this putative DNA binding region seems to predate the fungus-plant divide.
15787237	Seven compounds belonging to different structural skeletons were isolated from Microsphaeropsis olivacea grown in liquid and solid media. The enalin derivative 7-hydroxy-2,4-dimethyl-3(2H)-benzofuranone is reported for the first time, while additional spectroscopic information is provided for the acetates of botrallin and ulocladol. The activity of the isolated compounds was assessed towards the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and their cytotoxicity against human lung fibroblasts. Graphislactone A and botrallin presented a moderate activity towards AChE, with IC50 of 8.1 and 6.1 microg/ml (27 and 19 microM, respectively). Under the same experimental conditions, the IC50 of the standard inhibitor galanthamine was 3 microg/ml. The cytotoxicity of both compounds was > 1000 and 330 microM, respectively. None of the compounds was promising as antibacterial or antifungic against phytopathogenic fungi and bacteria. Botrallin and graphislactone A were detected in the liquid potato-dextrose and yeast extract/malt extract/dextrose as well as on a solid substrate (rice). Butyrolactone I was obtained from the fungus growing on solid medium.
15787249	(1S,6R)-2,7(14),10-Bisabolatrien-1-ol-4-one was identified as a germination inhibitor from the methanol extract of Japanese cedar wood, Cryptomeria japonica. The occurrence of this compound in 1 g fresh wood was 2.0 mg, and showed a maximum of 60% germination inhibition at the dose of 20 mg/filter paper (157 microg/cm(2)) against both of lettuce and rice seeds for 4 d. A selective activity between Dicotyledoneae and Monocotyledoneae seeds was not observed.
15787257	A cDNA clone coding phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from asparagus spears (Asparagus officinalis L. cv. Welcome) using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The partial cDNA clone encoded an mRNA of 527 bp and the derived amino acid sequence was found highly homologous to PAL from rice, maize and barley. Northern blot analysis showed an increase of pAS-PAL mRNA until 24 h at 20 degrees C, which coincided well with PAL activity and fiber development, suggesting that the increase is a response to the wounding associated with harvest.
15788188	The increasing demand of the growing population requires enhancement in the production of rice. This has a direct bearing on the global environment since the rice cultivation is one of the major contributors to the methane emissions. As the rice cultivation is intensified with the current practices and technologies, the methane fluxes from paddy fields will substantially rise. Improved high yielding rice varieties together with efficient cultivation techniques will certainly contribute to the curtailment of the methane emission fluxes. In this paper, the system dynamic approach is used for estimating the methane emissions from rice fields in India till the year 2020. Mitigation options studied for curtailing the methane emissions include rice production management, use of low methane emitting varieties of rice, water management and fertilizer amendment. The model is validated quantitatively and sensitivity tests are carried out to examine the robustness of the model.
15788744	In kinetoplastids, Euglena, and four metazoan phyla, trans-splicing has been described as a mechanism for the generation of mature messenger RNAs (mRNAs): 5'-ends of precursor mRNAs are replaced by a short spliced leader (SL) exon from a small SL RNA. Although the full phylogenetic range is unknown, trans-splicing has not been found in vertebrates, insects, plants, or yeast. In animal groups where it does occur, i.e., nematodes, cnidarians, platyhelminths, and primitive chordates, SL RNAs do not show sequence relatedness across phyla. The apparently sporadic phylogenetic distribution and the lack of SL RNA homology have led to opposing hypotheses on its evolution, involving either an ancient origin followed by loss in multiple lineages or independent acquisition in several taxa. Here we present evidence for the occurrence of trans-splicing in bdelloid rotifers (Bdelloidea, Rotifera). A common 23-nt sequence, representing the SL exon-diagnostic of SL RNA-mediated trans-splicing-was found at the 5'-end of at least 50%-65% of mRNAs from Adineta ricciae and Philodina sp. The trans-splicing pattern in bdelloid rotifers can be unusually complex, as observed in transcripts from a heat shock protein gene, hsp82-1, where the SL exon was spliced to three alternative positions. Bdelloid rotifer SL RNAs were found to be 105 or 106 nt long and comprised the SL sequence, a conserved splice donor site and an intron containing a putative spliceosome-binding motif. Intriguingly, some similarity of rotifer SL RNA sequence and predicted secondary structure was seen to that of the predominant SL1 RNA of nematodes, although it is unlikely that this demonstrates homology. In addition, sequence corresponding to the rotifer SL exon was found at the 5'-end of a number of full-length complementary DNA (cDNA) clones in a rice (Oryza sativa) database. None of these cDNAs gave a close match with homologous plant genes, suggesting that a small but significant portion of the rice expressed sequence tag database represents sequences derived from rotifers. In summary, the description of SL-mediated trans-splicing in Rotifera extends its representation to at least five metazoan phyla, making it increasingly probable that this is a phylogenetically widespread and therefore ancient phenomenon.
15789760	Through genetic transformation mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens, an antisense waxy gene was introduced into Longtefu B line, a male sterile maintainer line in indica (Oryza sativa L.). Thirty transgenic plants showed integration of antisense waxy gene into the genome as determined by PCR assay, and twenty eight were confirmed by Southern blotting. T1 seeds from twenty one transgenic plants showed a marked decrease of amylose content, ranging from 3%-13% less than control, and seeds from some transgenic lines exhibited typical waxy phenotype. Six transgenic lines were selected to examine the amylose content in different generations. In the T4 generation, two homozygous lines, Long 3-1-1-1 and Long 5-8-2-1, were selected, with amylose content of 15.9% and 8.4% respectively. The amylose content in these lines is in consistent with the decrease of the accumulation of Wx protein as determined by SDS-PAGE electrophoresis. Cross and subsequent backcross of Long 3-1-1-1 and Long 5-8-2-1 with the Longtefu mare sterile line were performed to determine the changes of amylose content in F1 and B1F1 seeds. The results showed an average amlyose content of 21.4% in F1 seeds with Long 3-1-1-1 as a parent, while only 13.6% with Long 5-8-2-1 as a parent. In addition, the average amylose contents in B1F1 seeds were 17.1% and 9.3% respectively. Our results indicated that during the fertility transfer in the male sterile line, stable transgenic lines with medium or low contents of amylose had direct effects on amylose content in F1 seeds.
15790109	An RP-HPLC method for the separation and determination of aluminium(III), vanadium(V), iron(III), copper(II) and nickel(II) with CALKS (Chromazol KS) and PAR ([4-(2-pyridylazo)resorcinol]) chelating on a YWG-ODS column was developed. A mixture of methanol-tetrahydrofuran(THF)-water (60:5:35 v/v) containing 0.2 mol/L LiCl, 5 x 10(-5) mol/L CALKS, 5 x 10(-5) mol/L PAR and acetate buffer solution (pH 4.9) was selected as mobile phase. The method has high sensitivity, with the detection limits being 6 ng/mL for aluminium(III), 3.5 ng/mL for vanadium(V), 10.4 ng/mL for iron(III), 6.3 ng/mL for copper(II) and 8.7 ng/mL for nickel(II). It also has good selectivity, so that most foreign metal ions do not interfere under the optimum conditions. The method can be applied to the simultaneous determination of trace amounts of aluminium, vanadium, iron, copper and nickel in rice and flour samples.
15792960	We have cloned a new member of the RAD2/XPG nuclease family, OsGEN-L (OsGEN-like), from rice (Oryza sativa L.). OsGEN-L possesses two domains, the N- and I-regions, that are conserved in the RAD2/XPG nuclease family. Database searches and phylogenetic analyses revealed that OsGEN-L belongs to class 4 of the RAD2/XPG nuclease family, and OsGEN-L homologs were found in animals and higher plants. To elucidate the function of OsGEN-L, we generated rice OsGEN-L-RNAi transgenic plants in which OsGEN-L expression was silenced. Most of the OsGEN-L-RNAi plants displayed low fertility, and some of them were male-sterile. OsGEN-L-RNAi plants lacked mature pollen, resulting from a defect in early microspore development. A OsGEN-L-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was localized in the nucleus, and the OsGEN-L promoter was specifically active in the anthers. Furthermore, a recombinant OsGEN-L protein possessed flap endonuclease activity and both single-stranded and double-stranded DNA-binding activities. Our results suggest that OsGEN-L plays an essential role in DNA metabolism required for early microspore development in rice.
15793573	"Golden Rice" is a variety of rice engineered to produce beta-carotene (pro-vitamin A) to help combat vitamin A deficiency, and it has been predicted that its contribution to alleviating vitamin A deficiency would be substantially improved through even higher beta-carotene content. We hypothesized that the daffodil gene encoding phytoene synthase (psy), one of the two genes used to develop Golden Rice, was the limiting step in beta-carotene accumulation. Through systematic testing of other plant psys, we identified a psy from maize that substantially increased carotenoid accumulation in a model plant system. We went on to develop "Golden Rice 2" introducing this psy in combination with the Erwinia uredovora carotene desaturase (crtI) used to generate the original Golden Rice. We observed an increase in total carotenoids of up to 23-fold (maximum 37 microg/g) compared to the original Golden Rice and a preferential accumulation of beta-carotene.
15794761	The xylanase inhibitor protein I (XIP-I), recently identified in wheat, inhibits xylanases belonging to glycoside hydrolase families 10 (GH10) and 11 (GH11). Sequence and structural similarities indicate that XIP-I is related to chitinases of family GH18, despite its lack of enzymatic activity. Here we report the identification and biochemical characterization of a XIP-type inhibitor from rice. Despite its initial classification as a chitinase, the rice inhibitor does not exhibit chitinolytic activity but shows specificities towards fungal GH11 xylanases similar to that of its wheat counterpart. This, together, with an analysis of approximately 150 plant members of glycosidase family GH18 provides compelling evidence that xylanase inhibitors are largely represented in this family, and that this novel function has recently emerged based on a common scaffold. The plurifunctionality of GH18 members has major implications for genomic annotations and predicted gene function. This study provides new information which will lead to a better understanding of the biological significance of a number of GH18 'inactivated' chitinases.
15795036	The stable Sr content in the aboveground parts of rice plants at various growth stages, and the distributions of 90Sr and stable Sr in rice plant components, such as polished rice, rice bran, hull, straw and root, at harvest time, were determined. The total Sr content in the aboveground rice plants was dependent on the growth stage and followed the sigmoidal shape of the growth curve. The concentration of 90Sr among the different components of rice plants varied within two orders of magnitude, whereas the 90Sr/Sr concentration ratio had a constant value. Therefore, the translocation rate of 90Sr in rice plants had similar values to that of stable Sr. However, the 90Sr/Sr concentration ratio for the rice plants was different for each study site. Only 0.6% of the total Sr was found in polished rice, while more than 99% was found in the non-edible components, of which 87% was present in the straw. These findings suggest that 90Sr in the non-edible parts could have been transferred to humans through the soil-plant system and/or feed-livestock pathway. The soil-to-plant transfer factor of 90Sr in polished rice was 0.0021 +/- 0.00007, which was two orders of magnitude lower than that in the straw. The percentage of 90Sr removed from the upper soil layer to the aboveground biomass of rice plants at harvest time was calculated as 0.094%. It is possible that approximately 0.1% of the total 90Sr content in the surface soil layer is removed from the soil-plant system by human activities every year.
15796568	A modified assay based on the AACC official method 86-45 (AACC, 2000) for the determination of choline in three cereals and three varieties of Dioscorea (yam) tubers was developed. When tested in wheat, rice, and oat flour, choline estimated by the modified method was 34.0-45.3% higher than that of the original AACC method. In a system with higher contents of starch and mucilage, such as Dioscorea (yam) tubers, extra procedures in sample preparation needed to be carried out to separate starch and mucilage. The choline contents of the following Dioscorea (yam) tubers using the original AACC method and the present modified AACC method through coupling an additional bubble separation procedure, respectively, were (mean +/- SD, mg/g solid) Keelung yam (D. pseudojaponicaY.) 0.92 +/- 0.09 and 2.21 +/- 0.12, Yangmingshan yam (D. alata L.) 0.77 +/- 0.09 and 1.78 +/- 0.28, and Ming-Chien yam (D. purpurea) 0.44 +/- 0.09 and 1.35 +/- 0.19. Choline was 231-306% higher than when the original AACC method was used. Dioscorea (yam) tubers were much higher in choline content than they were in cereals. Bubble separation is an appropriate procedure in the practice for the maximum assay of choline in yams. It is accurate, rapid, easy to handle, and especially good for recovering choline from a starch and polysaccharide-protein-containing system.
15796586	Antioxidant activity of steryl ferulates from other sources than rice have not yet been studied much, despite the fact that rice steryl ferulates (gamma-oryzanol) have been shown to possess good antioxidant activity. In this study, steryl ferulate extracts from wheat or rye bran were studied for their capability to inhibit hydroperoxide formation in bulk methyl linoleate and methyl linoleate emulsion. Further, their activity to scavenge DPPH radicals was analyzed. The activities were compared to synthetic steryl ferulates, rice steryl ferulates, ferulic acid, and alpha-tocopherol. Nonrice cereal extracts of steryl ferulates exhibited good antioxidant activity, especially in the bulk lipid system. The radical scavenging activity was similar to that of nonesterified ferulic acid, indicating that the ferulic acid moiety is responsible for the antioxidant properties. This study illustrates a new aspect to the health-promoting properties of rye and wheat.
15796600	The ultrastructure of cooked and malt-treated cooked rice of Ilpumbyeo (IP) and its mutant Goami 2 (G2), which have extreme contrasts in physicochemical properties, cooking quality, and ultrastructural characteristics in raw grains (1, 2), was compared. In cooked rice of IP, starch granules in endosperm cells were evenly coalesced, appearing as homogeneously smooth sheetlike matrix and/or globules, whereas those in G2 were a heterogeneously coarse matrix in which a novel structural feature, the microfilaments, was embedded. In malt-treated cooked rice of IP, most starch was hydrolyzed by the malt enzymes, appearing as empty vacuoles surrounded by the cell wall, whereas that in G2 was highly resistant to malt treatment, remaining as distinct structural features, the malt-resistant compound starch granules. The property of G2's compound starch granules, which are tolerant of mechanical and chemical treatments thereby retaining their structural integrity (2) and of cooking and malt treatment thereby retaining their physical hardness, appears to play a major role in determining the quality of cooked rice of G2.
15796991	Competition among four symbiotically competent Nostoc strains, colonizing rice roots, was examined using hetR-DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) as strain identification. Although mixed in various combinations, only one strain at a time associated with the rice roots. Nostoc strain 8964:3 was the most competitive and our data suggest that its competitive fitness was dependent on rapid hormogonial spreading as displayed on agar plates. Furthermore, rice roots induced hormogonia in all tested Nostoc strains, but only Nostoc strain 9104 showed positive chemotaxis towards the root. Inhibition of growth of competing cyanobacterial strains was not apparent.
15799777	The Floral Genome Project was initiated to bridge the genomic gap between the most broadly studied plant model systems. Arabidopsis and rice, although now completely sequenced and under intensive comparative genomic investigation, are separated by at least 125 million years of evolutionary time, and cannot in isolation provide a comprehensive perspective on structural and functional aspects of flowering plant genome dynamics. Here we discuss new genomic resources available to the scientific community, comprising cDNA libraries and Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) sequences for a suite of phylogenetically basal angiosperms specifically selected to bridge the evolutionary gaps between model plants and provide insights into gene content and genome structure in the earliest flowering plants. Random sequencing of cDNAs from representatives of phylogenetically important eudicot, non-grass monocot, and gymnosperm lineages has so far (as of 12/1/04) generated 70,514 ESTs and 48,170 assembled unigenes. Efficient sorting of EST sequences into putative gene families based on whole Arabidopsis/rice proteome comparison has permitted ready identification of cDNA clones for finished sequencing. Preliminarily, (i) proportions of functional categories among sequenced floral genes seem representative of the entire Arabidopsis transcriptome, (ii) many known floral gene homologues have been captured, and (iii) phylogenetic analyses of ESTs are providing new insights into the process of gene family evolution in relation to the origin and diversification of the angiosperms. Initial comparisons illustrate the utility of the EST data sets toward discovery of the basic floral transcriptome. These first findings also afford the opportunity to address a number of conspicuous evolutionary genomic questions, including reproductive organ transcriptome overlap between angiosperms and gymnosperms, genome-wide duplication history, lineage-specific gene duplication and functional divergence, and analyses of adaptive molecular evolution. Since not all genes in the floral transcriptome will be associated with flowering, these EST resources will also be of interest to plant scientists working on other functions, such as photosynthesis, signal transduction, and metabolic pathways.
15801766	Transgenic rice suspension cultures were utilized to produce a human therapeutic protein, recombinant alpha(1)-antitrypsin (rAAT), in a cyclical, semicontinuous operation. Recombinant protein production was induced by removing the carbon source from the cell culture medium. The transgenic rice cells secreted the rAAT into the medium, and therefore medium exchanges could be performed for consecutive growth and protein expression phases. The process consisted of three cycles over a 25-28 day period, with growth phases lasting 4-6 days each and protein expression phases lasting 2.5-5 days each. Biomass and sugar concentrations, oxygen uptake rate, cell viability, culture pH, total extracellular protein, and active rAAT were measured throughout the cyclical process. The data profiles were reproducible between separate cyclical runs where, following each induction period, cell growth and viability could be reestablished once sucrose was added back to the culture. Volumetric productivities ranged from 3 to 12 mg active rAAT/(L day) for individual cycles with overall volumetric productivities of 4.5 and 7.7 mg active rAAT/(L day).
15802221	The gene encoding hygromycin B phosphotransferase (hpt) is a widely used selectable marker in the production of genetically engineered crops. To facilitate the safety assessment of this protein, the non-fusion hpt expression plasmid was constructed and introduced into Escherichia coli to produce enough quantity of the HPT protein. High level expressed HPT was achieved but most of the expressed protein aggregated as inclusion bodies. The inclusion bodies were washed, separated from the cells, and solubilized by 0.3% Sarkosyl. The protein was renatured by dilution and dialysis, and then purified by anion-exchange chromatography. The activity is 8 U/mg protein and the purity is about 95%. Further studies showed that the microbially produced HPT protein had comparable molecular weight, immuno-reactivities, N-terminal amino acid sequences, and biological activities with those of the HPT produced by transgenic rice harboring hpt gene. All these results demonstrated the validity of utilizing the microbially produced HPT to assess the safety of the HPT protein produced in genetically engineered rice.
15803319	A transposable element that is active in intact plants has been identified in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The 607-bp element itself, termed nonautonomous DNA-based active rice transposon (nDart), has no coding capacity. It was found inserted in the gene encoding Mg-protoporphyrin IX methyltransferase in a chlorophyll-deficient albino mutant isolated from backcross progeny derived from a cross between wild-type japonica varieties. The nDart has 19-bp terminal inverted repeats (TIRs) and, when mobilized, generates an 8-bp target-site duplication (TSD). At least 13 nDart elements were identified in the genome sequence of the japonica cultivar Nipponbare. Database searches identified larger elements, termed DNA-based active rice transposon (Dart) that contained one ORF for a protein that contains a region with high similarity to the hAT dimerization motif. Dart shares several features with nDart, including identical TIRs, similar subterminal sequences and the generation of an 8-bp TSD. These shared features indicate that the nonautonomous element nDart is an internal deletion derivative of the autonomous element Dart. We conclude that these active transposon systems belong to the hAT superfamily of class II transposons. Because the transposons are active in intact rice plants, they should be useful tools for tagging genes in studies of functional genomics.
15803406
15803416	The cytosolic class I small heat shock proteins (sHSP-CI) represent the most abundant sHSP in plants. Here, we report the characterization and the expression profile of nine members of the sHSP-CI gene family in rice (Oryza sativa Tainung No.67), of which Oshsp16.9A, Oshsp16.9B, Oshsp16.9C, Oshsp16.9D and Oshsp17.9B are clustered on chromosome 1, and Oshsp17.3, Oshsp17.7, Oshsp17.9A and Oshsp18.0 are clustered on chromosome 3. Oshsp17.3 and Oshsp18.0 are linked by a 356-bp putative bi-directional promoter. Individual gene products were identified from the protein subunits of a heat shock complex (HSC) and from in vitro transcription/ translation products by two-dimensional gel electrophoreses (2-DE). All sHSP-CI genes except Oshsp17.9B were induced strongly after a 2-h heat shock treatment. The genes on chromosome 3 were induced rapidly at 32 and 41 degrees C, whereas those on chromosome 1 were induced slowly by similar conditions. Seven of these genes, except Oshsp16.9D and Oshsp17.9B, were induced by arsenite (As), but only genes on chromosome 3 were strongly induced by azetidine-2-carboxylic acid (Aze, a proline analog) and cadmium (Cd). A similar expression profile of all sHSP-CI genes at a lower level was evoked by ethanol, H2O2 and CuCl2 treatments. Transient expression assays of the promoter activity by linking to GUS reporter gene also supported the in vivo selective expression of the sHSP-CI genes by Aze treatment indicating the differential induction of rice sHSP-CI genes is most likely regulated at the transcriptional level. Only Oshsp16.9A abundantly accumulated in mature dry seed also suggested additionally prominent roles played by this HSP in development.
15805478	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a growing family of small noncoding RNAs that downregulate gene expression in a sequence-specific manner. The identification of the entire set of miRNAs from a model organism is a critical step toward understanding miRNA-guided gene regulation. Rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis thaliana, two plant model species with fully sequenced genomes, are representatives of monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous flowering plants, respectively. Thus far, experimental identification of miRNAs in plants has been confined to Arabidopsis. Computational analysis based on conservation with known miRNAs from Arabidopsis has predicted 20 families of miRNAs in rice. To identify miRNAs that are difficult to predict in silico or not conserved in Arabidopsis, we generated three cDNA libraries of small RNAs from rice shoot, root, and inflorescence tissues. We identified 35 miRNAs, of which 14 are new, and these define 13 new families. Thirteen of the new miRNAs are not conserved in Arabidopsis. Four of the new miRNAs are conserved in related monocot species but not in Arabidopsis, which suggests that these may have evolved after the divergence of monocots and dicots. The remaining nine new miRNAs appear to be absent in the known sequences of other plant species. Most of the rice miRNAs are expressed ubiquitously in all tissues examined, whereas a few display tissue-specific expression. We predicted 46 genes as targets of the new rice miRNAs: 16 of these predicted targets encode transcription factors, and other target genes appear to play roles in diverse physiological processes. Four target genes have been experimentally verified by detection of miRNA-mediated mRNA cleavage. Our identification of new miRNAs in rice suggests that these miRNAs may have evolved independently in rice or been lost in other species.
15805485	Miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are thought to be a driving force for genome evolution. Although numerous MITEs are found associated with genes, little is known about their function in gene regulation. Whereas the rice ubiquitin2 (rubq2) promoter in rice (Oryza sativa) line IR24 contains two nested MITEs (Kiddo and MDM1), that in line T309 has lost Kiddo, providing an opportunity to understand the role of MITEs in promoter function. No difference in endogenous rubq2 transcript levels between T309 and IR24 was evident using RT-PCR. However, promoter analysis using both transient and stably transformed calli revealed that Kiddo contributed some 20% of the total expression. Bisulfite genomic sequencing of the rubq2 promoters revealed specific DNA methylation at both symmetric and asymmetric cytosine residues on the MITE sequences, possibly induced by low levels of homologous transcripts. When methylation of the MITEs was blocked by 5-azacytidine treatment, a threefold increase in the endogenous rubq2 transcript level was detected in IR24 compared with that in T309. Together with the observed MITE methylation pattern, the detection of low levels of transcripts, but not small RNAs, corresponding to Kiddo and MDM1 suggested that RNA-dependent DNA methylation is induced by MITE transcripts. We conclude that, although Kiddo enhances transcription from the rubq2 promoter, this effect is mitigated by sequence-specific epigenetic modification.
15805491	Since the completion of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome sequence, there is an ongoing effort to annotate the genome as accurately as possible. Comparing genome sequences of related species complements the current annotation strategies by identifying genes and improving gene structure. A total of 595,321 Brassica oleracea shotgun reads were sequenced by TIGR (The Institute for Genome Research) and the collaboration of Washington University and Cold Spring Harbor. Vicogenta (a genome viewer based on GMOD and GBrowse) was created to view the current annotation and sequence alignments for Arabidopsis. Brassica reads were compared with the Arabidopsis genome and proteome databases using BLAST. Hypothetical genes and conserved unannotated regions on the short arm of chromosome 4 from Arabidopsis were experimentally verified using RT-PCR. We were able to improve the Arabidopsis annotation by identifying 25 genes that were missed, and confirming expression of 43 hypothetical genes in Arabidopsis. We were also able to detect conservation in genes whose transcription is normally suppressed due to methylation. We also examined how useful the O. sativa genome and ESTs from other species are, compared with Brassica, in improving the Arabidopsis annotation.
1580561	The present study investigated the effects of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) drink and 3 maintenance diets on both the survival and the glandular stomach morphology in a total of 480 Swiss/ICR mice. The MNNG conditioning was practised in one half of the mice for the first 8 months. The maintenance of mice on the standard (MF) diet, the rice-rich (R) diet or the rice- and salt-rich (RS) diet was continued for 12 months. The results obtained are as follows: 1) Many mice in the MNNG-conditioned groups experienced fatal bleeding into the small intestine before the termination of the feeding experiment. There was no sign of tumor formation in their digestive canals. The bleeding deaths took place more often in the MF- and RS- diet groups than in the R-diet groups, and started to appear earlier in males than in females within the MF-diet groups. 2) The tendency to gastric atophy, as assessed in terms of the wet weight of mouse glandular stomach as well as the quantitation of histological changes of the same organ in the one-year survivors, progressed in the order of the MF-diet groups, the R-diet groups and the RS-diet groups. 3) The effect of MNNG drink on the mouse glandular stomach morphology was bidirectional: it increased the incidence of advanced atrophy (and/or decreased the incidence of advanced hyperplasia) in the MF- and R-diet groups, and rather reduced the atrophy-oriented effect of the diet on stomach morphology in the RS-diet groups. 4) The above-mentioned effects of 3 maintenance diets and MNNG drink were more prominent in males than in females. 5) No neoplastic change was detected in the glandular stomachs of the one-year survivors with and without MNNG conditioning. 6) Evidence was presented to indicate that MNNG behaved as a quasi-antiandrogen in inducing the morphological changes of mouse glandular stomach.
15806324	Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is an essential protein for both DNA replication and DNA repair. In the present study using two-hybrid analysis with PCNA from rice, Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare (OsPCNA), we found that OsPCNA interacted with rice DnaJ protein. We have identified DnaJ and designated it as OsDnaJ. OsDnaJ was able to bind to OsPCNA in vitro. Transcripts of OsDnaJ were found to be strongly expressed in the proliferating cells. mRNA of DnaJ was induced by UV and DNA-damaging agents such as H2O2. The expression patterns of OsPCNA were almost the same as OsDnaJ. The relationship between OsPCNA and OsDnaJ is discussed.
15807208	The present investigation was developed as a contribution to Guatemalan's elderly food and nutrition. Its main objective was to evaluate the chemical, nutritional and sensory quality of bread prepared from the partial substitution of wheat flour with rice flour. Wheat flour substitutions with rice flour in the order of 15, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60% were evaluated. Differences with the control (100% wheat bread) were found during the process of preparation, as well as texture, volume, height, weight and specific volume. Important effects in dough handling were noted specifically in the 40, 50 and 60% rice bread. Thus, a sandy texture was found in breads of higher rice levels. The bread protein quality increased with the level of substitution; however the protein quality difference between the wheat bread and the bread with 60% rice flour did not achieve statistical significance. Based on a statistical analysis of the physical properties the bread with 30 and 40% rice flour was selected, and through a preference test between these last two, the 30% rice flour bread was selected as the sample best suited to the present study's purposes. This bread was not different to wheat bread in many nutritional parameters, although in others it showed to be superior. Each serving size of bread has a weight of 80 grams (2 slices) that contributes adequate quantity of calories, protein and sodium, although a little less dietary fiber than 100% wheat bread.
15807780	Amyloplast-targeted green fluorescent protein (GFP) was used to monitor amyloplast division and starch granule synthesis in the developing endosperm of transgenic rice. Two classical starch mutants, sugary and shrunken, contain reduced activities of isoamylase1 (ISA1) and cytosolic ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, respectively. Dividing amyloplasts in the wild-type and shrunken endosperms contained starch granules, whereas those in sugary endosperm did not contain detectable granules, suggesting that ISA1 plays a role in granule synthesis at the initiation step. The transition from phytoglycogen to sugary-amylopectin was gradual in the boundary region between the inner and outer endosperms of sugary. These results suggest that the synthesis of sugary-amylopectin and phytoglycogen involved a stochastic process and that ISA1 activity plays a critical role in the stochastic process in starch synthesis in rice endosperm. The reduction of cytosolic ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase activity in shrunken endosperm did not inhibit granule initiation but severely restrained the subsequent enlargement of granules. The shrunken endosperm often developed pleomorphic amyloplasts containing a large number of underdeveloped granules or a large cluster of small grains of amyloplasts, each containing a simple-type starch granule. Although constriction-type divisions of amyloplasts were much more frequent, budding-type divisions were also found in the shrunken endosperm. We show that monitoring GFP in developing amyloplasts was an effective means of evaluating the roles of enzymes involved in starch granule synthesis in the rice endosperm.
15807785	Solanaceous species are among the >200 000 plant species worldwide forming a mycorrhiza, that is, a root living in symbiosis with soil-borne arbuscular-mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. An important parameter of this symbiosis, which is vital for ecosystem productivity, agriculture, and horticulture, is the transfer of phosphate (Pi) from the AM fungus to the plant, facilitated by plasma membrane-spanning Pi transporter proteins. The first mycorrhiza-specific plant Pi transporter to be identified, was StPT3 from potato [Nature414 (2004) 462]. Here, we describe novel Pi transporters from the solanaceous species tomato, LePT4, and its orthologue StPT4 from potato, both being members of the Pht1 family of plant Pi transporters. Phylogenetic tree analysis demonstrates clustering of both LePT4 and StPT4 with the mycorrhiza-specific Pi transporter from Medicago truncatula [Plant Cell, 14 (2002) 2413] and rice [Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA, 99 (2002) 13324], respectively, but not with StPT3, indicating that two non-orthologous mycorrhiza-responsive genes encoding Pi transporters are co-expressed in the Solanaceae. The cloned promoter regions from both genes, LePT4 and StPT4, exhibit a high degree of sequence identity and were shown to direct expression exclusively in colonized cells when fused to the GUS reporter gene, in accordance with the abundance of LePT4 and StPT4 transcripts in mycorrhized roots. Furthermore, extensive sequencing of StPT4-like clones and subsequent expression analysis in potato and tomato revealed the presence of a close paralogue of StPT4 and LePT4, named StPT5 and LePT5, respectively, representing a third Pi transport system in solanaceous species which is upregulated upon AM fungal colonization of roots. Knock out of LePT4 in the tomato cv. MicroTom indicated considerable redundancy between LePT4 and other Pi transporters in tomato.
15809109	In 1979, about 2000 people in central Taiwan were intoxicated via rice oil consumption that was contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). This "Yu-cheng" incident was one of the two known major human PCB intoxication episodes. Twenty years after the intoxication, serum samples of 435 Yu-cheng victims, 414 adults and 21 children, were collected. Sixteen PCB congeners were analyzed with a gas chromatograph-electron capture detector. We found the median concentration of total PCBs in the adult serum was 1500 ng/g lipid, still substantially higher than that of the general population in Taiwan (3.7-fold) and most seafood consumers in the world. Most of analyzed PCB congeners in children were below or around the detection limits. Congener #138, however, had the highest concentrations, approximately accounting for 55% and 29% in the child and adult groups, respectively. Given that PCBs are persistent organic pollutants and endocrine disruptors, the concentrations and congener-specific profiles regarding the Yu-cheng victims provide valuable information for the investigation of such chemicals in humans.
15809280	Apoplastic transport barriers in the roots of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. IR64) and corn (Zea mays L. cv. Helix) were isolated enzymatically. Following chemical degradation (monomerization, derivatization), the amounts of aliphatic and aromatic suberin monomers were analysed quantitatively by gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. In corn, suberin was determined for isolated endodermal (ECW) and rhizo-hypodermal (RHCW) cell walls. In rice, the strong lignification of the central cylinder (CC), did not allow the isolation of endodermal cell walls. Similarly, exodermal walls could not be separated from the rhizodermal and sclerenchyma cell layers. Suberin analyses of ECW and RHCW of rice, thus, refer to either the entire CC or to the entire outer part of the root (OPR), the latter lacking the inner cortical cell layer. In both species, aromatic suberin was mainly composed of coumaric and ferulic acids. Aliphatic suberin monomers released from rice and corn belonged to five substance classes: primary fatty acids, primary alcohols, diacids, omega-hydroxy fatty acids, and 2-hydroxy fatty acids, with omega-hydroxy fatty acids being the most prominent substance class. Qualitative composition of aliphatic suberin of rice was different from that of corn; (i) it was much less diverse, and (ii) besides monomers with chain lengths of C(16), a second maximum of C(28) was evident. In corn, C(24) monomers represented the most prominent class of chain lengths. When suberin quantities were related to surface areas of the respective tissues of interest (hypodermis and/or exodermis and endodermis), exodermal cell walls of rice contained, on average, six-times more aliphatic suberin than those of corn. In endodermal cell walls, amounts were 34 times greater in rice than in corn. Significantly higher amounts of suberin detected in the apoplastic barriers of rice corresponded with a substantially lower root hydraulic conductivity (Lp(r)) compared with corn, when water flow was driven by hydrostatic pressure gradients across the apoplast. As the OPR of rice is highly porous and permeable to water, it is argued that this holds true only for the endodermis. The results imply that some caution is required when discussing the role of suberin in terms of an efficient transport barrier for water. The simple view that only the quantity of suberin present is important, may not hold. A more detailed consideration of both the chemical nature of suberins and of the microstructure of deposits is required, i.e. how suberins impregnate wall pores.
15809843	Serine carboxypeptidases (SCPs) comprise a large family of protein hydrolyzing enzymes and have roles ranging from protein turnover and C-terminal processing to wound responses and xenobiotic metabolism. The proteins can be classified into three groups, namely carboxypeptidase I, II and III, based on their coding protein sequences and the fact that each family is characterized by a central catalytic domain of unique topology designated as the "alpha/beta hydrolase fold". The available SCP protein sequences have been utilized as datasets to build a HMM (hidden Markov model) profile, which is used to search the rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) proteome. A total of 71 SCP and serine carboxypeptidase-like (SCPL) protein-coding genes exist in rice. The intron-exon structure, chromosome localization, expression and characteristics of encoded protein sequences of the 71 putative genes are reviewed.
15809910	Because of the antisecretory potential of L-histidine in the intestinal tract, its antidiarrheal effects were determined in cholera. In a double-blind trial of 126 adult male patients with cholera, L-histidine (2.5 g/L) was mixed with a rice-based oral rehydration solution (ORS) and administered to 62 patients; 64 patients received the same ORS without L-histidine. All patients received ciprofloxacin at a dosage of 500 mg every 12 h for 72 h. Fluid output (of stool, urine, and vomit) and intake (of ORS, water, and intravenous fluid) were determined every 8 h for 72 h. Administration of ORS with L-histidine significantly (P<.05) reduced the frequency of stool output during 32-64 h after initiation of ORS treatment, compared with that in patients given ORS without L-histidine ([all data are means+/-SD] 32-48 h, 11.5+/-6.9 mL/kg vs. 18.8+/-16.0 mL/kg; 40-48 h, 6.7+/-4.4 mL/kg vs. 11.5+/-9.7 mL/kg; and 56-64 h, 6.3+/-5.8 mL/kg vs. 7.8+/-4.1 mL/kg). An overall reduction of 22% in the volume of stool was observed in patients given ORS without L-histidine. The amount of required unscheduled intravenous fluid was lower in patients given ORS with L-histidine, compared with that in patients given ORS without L-histidine (0-24 h, 82.5+/-44.4 mL/kg vs. 158.6+/-72.2 mL/kg [P<.01]; and 24-48 h, 41.6+/-40.4 mL/kg vs. 52.5+/-22.1 mL/kg [P>.05]). Administration of ORS with L-histidine also significantly reduced (P<.05) the intake of ORS and the duration of illness. No adverse effects were observed in these patients. L-histidine reduces the weight of stool and the frequency of stool output in cholera and could be a useful and safe adjunct treatment that will increase the success rate of ORS and antibiotic therapy in cholera.
15810266	The characteristics of the radiant spectra (i.e. absorption, reflectance and transmission) of leaves of paddy and upland rice were studied. The experiment proves that the characteristics of the radiant spectra of the seedling leaves of paddy and upland rice is basically the same in the range of 200-800nm, and their chlorophyll content of the leaves is also quite near (the average values for paddy and upland rice are 4.25mg/g and 4.28mg/g, respectively). However, the absorption of the flag leaves of upland rice is higher and the transmission is lower compared to paddy rice in the heading-flowering period, while the reflectance is almost the same except for 550nm. The chlorophyll content in the leaves of upland rice is approximate twice as that of paddy rice (the average values of paddy and upland rice are 0.86mg/g and 1.86mg/g, respectively).
15810798	The purpose of this study was to examine the context of iron deficiency and feeding patterns of iron-rich foods among northern Kenyan school-aged children. A nutrition survey was conducted among 300 subjects in two Rendille communities, Korr and Karare. The objectives were to determine the prevalence of iron deficiency as it relates to parasitic infection, dietary intake, and sociodemographic factors, as well as cultural food proscriptions influencing child feeding. Sociodemographic and qualitative data on food beliefs and child-feeding practices were obtained from the primary caretaker of each subject. From pediatric subjects, 24-hour dietary recall data were obtained with the help of the primary caretaker, and capillary blood from a fingerstick was used to detect iron deficiency based on measures of hemoglobin, the zinc protoporphyrin-to-heme ratio, C-reactive protein, and transferrin receptor. With an overall prevalence of 31.2%, iron deficiency was found to be associated with dietary iron intakes constrained by diverse economic, cultural, and environmental factors among Rendille children. In Karare, where children's iron intake approached recommended levels, iron deficiency was found to be attributable to low bioavailability of iron (only 4.3% of total iron intake), rather than low dietary intake per se. By contrast, in Korr the average daily iron intake was estimated at only 65% of recommended allowances, indicating that iron deficiency was the outcome not merely of low bioavailability, but rather of overall inadequate iron intake. Sociodemographic analysis showed a significant interaction between sex and economic status, revealing that girls in economically sufficient households were 2.4 times as likely to have iron deficiency as boys. This difference in risk parallels culturally defined gender-based proscriptions for child feeding: girls are believed to benefit from "soft foods," including rice, maize porridge, and tea, whereas boys benefitfrom "hard foods," including meat, blood, and beans. Consequently, in households economically able to purchase iron-rich foods, these foods are being preferentially fed to boys. Economic development may result in improved iron status for boys, but it will be unlikely to benefit girls in the absence of a dietary modification intervention. A modification of culturally acceptable "soft foods" to include iron-rich foods may provide a sustainable approach to controlling and preventing iron deficiency in this population.
15812059	The main objectives of this study were to uncover the pathways used for methanogenesis in three different boreal peatland ecosystems and to describe the methanogenic populations involved. The mesotrophic fen had the lowest proportion of CH4 produced from H2-CO2. The oligotrophic fen was the most hydrogenotrophic, followed by the ombrotrophic bog. Each site was characterized by a specific group of methanogenic sequences belonging to Methanosaeta spp. (mesotrophic fen), rice cluster-I (oligotrophic fen), and fen cluster (ombrotrophic bog).
15812663	The purpose of this study was to provide up-to-date data on the nature of sport related injury (SRI) presenting to a large emergency department in Ireland. Data were collected retrospectively on all children under 17 years of age with a SRI, presenting to the emergency department of a major teaching hospital, over a 6-month period, and entered into a Microsoft Access database. A total of 1143 SRIs were identified which had occurred over a 6-month period, from 53 different sports. There was a high proportion of humerus and back SRIs in females, and a higher proportion of falls in females. Males were more frequently involved in collisions. Children with SRI were not using protective equipment in 94% of cases. Advice regarding rest, ice, compression and elevation (RICE)/general injury advice was given to 25% of patients and regarding injury preventive measures in less than 0.1% of cases. Of children, 28% had previously attended with a SRI. We also observed a lower rate of analgesia prescription to children under age 4, compared to children of an older age, and rarity of topical analgesic prescription. Overall, 10% of SRIs required admission, with 65% of these cases needing orthopaedic intervention. The data provided from this study should raise awareness of the different aspects of sport related injuries affecting children, and may help to provide the impetus for suggesting direction and guidance for reducing such events.
15815040	The use of 1% unmodified rice starch and 1% horse serum instead of 2% soluble starch and 5% serum in Granada medium is described. These components result in a medium of increased stability, preventing spoilage after a few days of storage at room temperature.
15815648
15815666
1581572
1581574
15816267	The aim of this study was to determine the differences in postprandial glucose levels between Type 2 diabetic patients visiting two different primary care clinics after ingestion of three carbohydrate test foods. Thirty-eight Type 2 diabetic patients visiting the Chaguanas and Arima Lifestyle Disease Clinics and 27 healthy non-diabetic subjects were studied on three different occasions, seven days apart, after an overnight fast. On each day of the study, anthropometric indices were measured and after collecting fasting blood samples, subjects randomly consumed three pre-selected carbohydrate test foods: bread, roti or rice within 10 minutes and water taken as wished. Subsequently, seven millimetres of venous blood samples were collected at 60, 90, 120 and 150 minutes for insulin, glucose and lipid determinations. Age, body weight, body mass index, waist and hip circumferences did not differ between the healthy subjects and diabetic patients or between patients of the two clinics (p > 0.05). The mean fasting and 2.5-hour postprandial glucose values for the patients visiting the Chaguanas clinic were higher, after consuming at least one test food, than those of patients visiting the Arima clinic (p < 0.05). The mean HbA1c, and 2.5-hour glucose levels for the diabetic patients visiting either of the two clinics exceeded the internationally recommended cut-off values; this is worst in patients visiting the Chaguanas clinic. It is suggested that primary care physicians should start by targeting glycaemic control based on international standards while a more aggressive diabetes dietary education should be reinforced at the clinics, especially Chaguanas.
15816932	A so far uncultured member of the Euryarchaeota was enriched from an anoxic riparian soil and phenotypically characterized using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR; "real-time PCR"). The microorganism is related to the Thermoplasmatales and belongs to Rice Cluster III (RC-III). Enrichment cultures utilized yeast extract (YE) by transiently accumulating acetate as major fermentation product, which was subsequently converted to methane. The abundance of RC-III archaea within the enrichment cultures was quantified by analysis of the terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and by qPCR. We developed qPCR assays targeting the 16S rRNA genes (16S rDNA) specific for RC-III as well as for the Archaea in general. The enrichment cultures consisted of a mixed methanogenic community of Bacteria and Archaea, the latter consisting of up to 60% of members of RC-III. The other archaea belonged to Methanosarcinaceae, Methanomicrobiaceae and Methanobacteriaceae. The enriched RC-III archaea were represented by two sequences (LL25A, LL37A) that were highly similar to each other and to those detected in the soil inoculum (>98% similarity). However, the 16S rDNA copy numbers of RC-III archaea were about 1000-fold lower than those of Bacteria. Nevertheless, we were able to estimate growth parameters and physiological properties of one of the enriched RC-III archaea (LL25A) by measuring the increase of 16S rDNA copy numbers specific for this group under different growth conditions. The enriched RC-III archaeon grew optimally at temperatures between 20 and 30 degrees C and neutral pH using YE, meat extract, peptone or tryptone under anoxic conditions. Doubling time was approximately 3 days. No proliferation was detected on carbohydrates, amino acids, fatty acids, glycerol, alcohols, aromatic compounds, purine and pyrimidine bases or pyruvate. Various exogenous electron acceptors (e.g. ferric iron, S(0)) did not support growth on YE. Proliferation of the enriched RC-III archaeon was hardly affected by the antibiotics ampicillin, kanamycin and streptomycin. These findings suggest that the enriched archaeon is a mesophilic anaerobe, which can grow heterotrophically on peptides. Further enrichment on peptone and kanamycin eventually allowed the microscopic detection of coccoid cells stained by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).
1581732
15817689	Centrifuge is a user-friendly system to simultaneously access Arabidopsis gene annotations and intra- and inter-organism sequence comparison data. The tool allows rapid retrieval of user-selected data for each annotated Arabidopsis gene providing, in any combination, data on the following features: predicted protein properties such as mass, pI, cellular location and transmembrane domains; SWISS-PROT annotations; Interpro domains; Gene Ontology records; verified transcription; BLAST matches to the proteomes of A.thaliana, Oryza sativa (rice), Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster and Homo sapiens. The tool lends itself particularly well to the rapid analysis of contigs or of tens or hundreds of genes identified by high-throughput gene expression experiments. In these cases, a summary table of principal predicted protein features for all genes is given followed by more detailed reports for each individual gene. Centrifuge can also be used for single gene analysis or in a word search mode. http://centrifuge.unil.ch/ edward.farmer@unil.ch.
15820668	The stability of chlorophyll-protein complexes of photosystem I (PSI) and photosystem II (PSII) was investigated by chlorophyll (Chl) fluorescence spectroscopy, absorption spectra and native green gel separation system during flag leaf senescence of two rice varieties (IIyou 129 and Shanyou 63) grown under outdoor conditions. During leaf senescence, photosynthetic CO(2) assimilation rate, carboxylase activity of Rubisco, chlorophyll and carotenoids contents, and the chlorophyll a/b ratio decreased significantly. The 77 K Chl fluorescence emission spectra of thylakoid membranes from mature leaves had two peaks at around 685 and 735 nm emitting mainly from PSII and PSI, respectively. The total Chl fluorescence yields of PSI and PSII decreased significantly with senescence progressing. However, the decrease in the Chl fluorescence yield of PSI was greater than in the yield of PSII, suggesting that the rate of degradation in chlorophyll-protein complexes of PSI was greater than in chlorophyll-protein complexes of PSII. The fluorescence yields for all chlorophyll-protein complexes decreased significantly with leaf senescence in two rice varieties but the extents of their decrease were significantly different. The greatest decrease in the Chl fluorescence yield was in PSI core, followed by LHCI, CP47, CP43, and LHCII. These results indicate that the rate of degradation for each chlorophyll-protein complex was different and the order for the stability of chlorophyll-protein complexes during leaf senescence was: LHCII>CP43>CP47>LHCI>PSI core, which was partly supported by the green gel electrophoresis of the chlorophyll-protein complexes.
15820987	The morphogenesis and architecture of a rice plant, Oryza sativa, are critical factors in the yield equation, but they are not well studied because of the lack of appropriate tools for 3D measurement. The architecture of rice plants is characterized by a large number of tillers and leaves. The aims of this study were to specify rice plant architecture and to find appropriate functions to represent the 3D growth across all growth stages. A japonica type rice, 'Namaga', was grown in pots under outdoor conditions. A 3D digitizer was used to measure the rice plant structure at intervals from the young seedling stage to maturity. The L-system formalism was applied to create '3D virtual rice' plants, incorporating models of phenological development and leaf emergence period as a function of temperature and photoperiod, which were used to determine the timing of tiller emergence. The relationships between the nodal positions and leaf lengths, leaf angles and tiller angles were analysed and used to determine growth functions for the models. The '3D virtual rice' reproduces the structural development of isolated plants and provides a good estimation of the tillering process, and of the accumulation of leaves. The results indicated that the '3D virtual rice' has a possibility to demonstrate the differences in the structure and development between cultivars and under different environmental conditions. Future work, necessary to reflect both cultivar and environmental effects on the model performance, and to link with physiological models, is proposed in the discussion.
15821022	Six cDNA clones encoding two small subunits and four large subunits of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) were mined from the database of rice full-length cDNAs, cloned and subsequently named: OsAPS1, OsAPS2, OsAPL1, OsAPL2, OsAPL3 and OsAPL4. Expression patterns of the six genes were examined by Northern blot analysis with gene-specific probes. OsAPL3 was predominantly expressed in the middle phases of seed development, and OsAPS1, OsAPL1 and OsAPL2 were expressed later in seed development. OsAPS2 and OsAPL4 were constitutively expressed and these isoforms were coordinated with starch accumulation in the developing rice seed. In order to clarify the effect of sugars and plant hormones on AGPase gene expression more precisely, a rice cell culture system was used. OsAPL3 transcript significantly accumulated in response to increased levels of sucrose and abscisic acid (ABA) concentration in the medium; however, the transcripts of other AGPase genes did not show significant accumulation. Under identical conditions, starch contents in the cultured cells also increased. Interestingly, ABA alone did not affect the gene expression of OsAPL3 and starch content. Collectively, these results indicated that the expression level of OsAPL3 and starch content in the cultured cells were cooperatively controlled by alterations in the concentration of both sucrose and ABA.
15821023	To determine the role of alpha-amylase isoform I-1 in the degradation of starch in rice leaf chloroplasts, we generated a series of transgenic rice plants with suppressed expression or overexpression of alpha-amylase I-1. In the lines with suppressed expression of alpha-amylase I-1 at both the mRNA and protein levels, seed germination and seedling growth were markedly delayed in comparison with those in the wild-type plants. However, the growth retardation was overcome by supplementation of sugars. Interestingly, a significant increase of starch accumulation in the young leaf tissues was observed under a sugar-supplemented condition. In contrast, the starch content of leaves was reduced in the plants overexpressing alpha-amylase I-1. In immunocytochemical analysis with specific anti-alpha-amylase I-1 antiserum, immuno-gold particles deposited in the chloroplasts and extracellular space in young leaf cells. We further examined the expression and targeting of alpha-amylase I-1 fused with the green fluorescent protein in re-differentiated green cells, and showed that the fluorescence of the expressed fusion protein co-localized with the chlorophyll autofluorescence in the transgenic cells. In addition, mature protein species of alpha-amylase I-1 bearing an oligosaccharide side chain were detected in the isolated chloroplasts. Based on these results, we concluded that alpha-amylase I-1 targets the chloroplasts through the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi system and plays a significant role in the starch degradation in rice leaves.
15821145	The endosperm of Golden Rice (Oryza sativa) is yellow due to the accumulation of beta-carotene (provitamin A) and xanthophylls. The product of the two carotenoid biosynthesis transgenes used in Golden Rice, phytoene synthase (PSY) and the bacterial carotene desaturase (CRTI), is lycopene, which has a red color. The absence of lycopene in Golden Rice shows that the pathway proceeds beyond the transgenic end point and thus that the endogenous pathway must also be acting. By using TaqMan real-time PCR, we show in wild-type rice endosperm the mRNA expression of the relevant carotenoid biosynthetic enzymes encoding phytoene desaturase, zeta-carotene desaturase, carotene cis-trans-isomerase, beta-lycopene cyclase, and beta-carotene hydroxylase; only PSY mRNA was virtually absent. We show that the transgenic phenotype is not due to up-regulation of expression of the endogenous rice pathway in response to the transgenes, as was suggested to be the case in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) fruit, where CRTI expression resulted in a similar carotenoid phenomenon. This means that beta-carotene and xanthophyll formation in Golden Rice relies on the activity of constitutively expressed intrinsic rice genes (carotene cis-trans-isomerase, alpha/beta-lycopene cyclase, beta-carotene hydroxylase). PSY needs to be supplemented and the need for the CrtI transgene in Golden Rice is presumably due to insufficient activity of the phytoene desaturase and/or zeta-carotene desaturase enzyme in endosperm. The effect of CRTI expression was also investigated in leaves of transgenic rice and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Here, again, the mRNA levels of intrinsic carotenogenic enzymes remained unaffected; nevertheless, the carotenoid pattern changed, showing a decrease in lutein, while the beta-carotene-derived xanthophylls increased. This shift correlated with CRTI-expression and is most likely governed at the enzyme level by lycopene-cis-trans-isomerism. Possible implications are discussed.
15821864	A cloned cDNA corresponding to OsDMC1 from rice anther tissue was expressed in Escherichia coli. The OsDmc1 protein was largely present in the inclusion bodies of the cell lysatE., which was solubilized by 8.0 M urea containing buffeR., purified to homogeneity by Ni-CAM agarose column chromatography, followed by renaturation to its native state through stepwise dialysis against reduced concentrations of urea. The purified protein cross-reacted with anti-yeast Dmc1 antibodies. The binding efficiency observed with circular single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) was similar to that with circular double-stranded DNA (dsDNA). The binding to either DNA showed no ATP dependencE., but required 5-10 mM Mg2+ in the presence of ATP. Even though the protein binding to dsDNA was as efficient as it was to ssDNA, the former induced no DNA dependent ATPasE., whereas the binding to ssDNA stimulated a significant level of DNA dependent ATPase activity. OsDmc1-ssDNA complex, with its ATPase proficiency, also mediated renaturation of homologous complementary strands as well as assimilation of single strands into homologous supercoiled duplexes leading to D-loop formation. The D-loop formation was lowered by excess of OsDmc1 protein. This D-loop formation activity was promoted by non-hydrolyzable ATP analog, AMP-PNP and was not observed in absence of ATP or presence of ADP/ATP-gamma-S. These properties reflected the classical hallmarks of a recombinase and represented the first biochemical characterization of a plant Dmc1 protein.
15821866	The barley bZIP transcription factor HvABI5 mediates abscisic acid (ABA)-upregulated gene expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seeds. HvABI5 specifically recognizes cis-elements of the ABA response complexes present in the promoters of the ABA-induced genes HVA1 and HVA22. HvABI5 together with another transcription factor, HvVP1, are required for the transactivation of these promoters, and this transactivation process is insensitive to the negative regulator abi1-1. The expression of HvABI5 itself appeared to be induced by ABA and can be suppressed by abi1-1. Gain- and loss-of-function studies in barley aleurone cells show that HvABI5 expression is positively regulated by a feed-forward circuit that involves HvABI5 itself and HvVP1. Mutation of the Ser residue in HvABI5, which has been shown to be phosphorylated in an ABA-dependent manner in the rice orthologue of HvABI5, reduces the transactivation activity of the factor by 50%. Although levels of HvABI5 and its transcript are enhanced by ABA treatment, the nuclear localization of HvABI5 is not affected by ABA. A model based on these observations is presented to explain the ABA upregulation of gene expression.
15822152	Genetic improvement for drought stress tolerance in rice involves the quantitative nature of the trait, which reflects the additive effects of several genetic loci throughout the genome. Yield components and related traits under stressed and well-water conditions were assayed in mapping populations derived from crosses of AzucenaxIR64 and AzucenaxBala. To find the candidate rice genes underlying Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) in these populations, we conducted in silico analysis of a candidate region flanked by the genetic markers RM212 and RM319 on chromosome 1, proximal to the semi-dwarf (sd1) locus. A total of 175 annotated genes were identified from this region. These included 48 genes annotated by functional homology to known genes, 23 pseudogenes, 24 ab initio predicted genes supported by an alignment match to an EST (Expressed sequence tag) of unknown function, and 80 hypothetical genes predicted solely by ab initio means. Among these, 16 candidate genes could potentially be involved in drought stress response.
15822153	To study the effect of high temperature, rice seedlings 20, 30, 40 and 50 d were kept at 5, 10, 15 and 20 cm water depth in a water pool. Meteorological findings indicated that water temperature varied up to 10 cm but became stable below this depth. Deep water inflicted higher tiller mortality, minimal increase in dry weight of aerial parts and leaf area, decrease in root length, and decrease in root dry weight especially at 20 cm water depth and produced an unbalanced T/R ratio (top versus root dry weight). However, deep water tended to increase plant length. These parameters, however, excel in shallow water. Older seedlings, with the exception of root dry weight, could not perform well compared to young seedlings in all physiological and morphological aspects. The study revealed that seedlings, particularly young ones, stand well in shallow water and can cope with high temperature.
15822922	Auxin and zinc are involved in callus and root formation in rice. However, details of the mechanism underlying this process and functional relation between zinc and auxin are unclear. In this study, proteins induced by auxin and zinc in rice were analyzed by a proteomic approach. Root formation on rice seedlings was promoted by 0.45 microM 2,4-D treatment and was further promoted by addition of 260 microM Zn. Microscopic observation revealed that the number of root primodia formed was significantly increased in 2,4-D- and Zn-treated seedlings than that of the control. A total of seven proteins, as analyzed by 2D-PAGE, were increased, and one protein was decreased by 2,4-D and Zn treatment. Expression of elongation factor-1beta' (EF-1beta') both at transcriptional and translational levels was particular abundant in callus and basal parts of young seedlings, and the accumulation of EF-1beta' was consistent with root formation induced by 2,4-D and Zn. Results indicate that higher level of EF-1beta' expression is necessary for auxin- and zinc-induced root formation in rice.
15823028	Plant nonspecific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) are thermal stable proteins that are capable of transferring lipid molecules between bilayers in vitro. This family of proteins, abundant in plants, is proposed to be involved in defense, pollination, and germination; the in vivo biological function remains, however, elusive. Here we report the purification and sequencing of an nsLTP1 from mung bean sprouts. We have also determined the solution structure of this nsLTP1, which represents the first 3D structure of the dicotyledonous nsLTP1 family. The global fold of mung bean nsLTP1 is similar to those of the monocotyledonous nsLTP1 structures and consists of four alpha-helices stabilized by four disulfide bonds. There are, however, some notable differences in the C-terminal tails and internal hydrophobic cavities. Circular dichroism and fluorescence spectroscopy were used to compare the thermodynamics and lipid transfer properties of mung bean nsLTP1 with those of rice nsLTP1. Docking of a lipid molecule into the solution structure of mung bean nsLTP1 reveals similar binding cavities and hydrophobic interactions as in rice nsLTP1, consistent with their comparable lipid transfer properties measured experimentally.
15823339	This study was designed to monitor molinate losses in surface and underground waters during Ordram application in a rice field situated in central Portugal. Water samples were collected from different sites, before, during and about one month and a half after Ordram application. Molinate quantification was based on a solid-phase microextraction (SPME) method followed by gas chromatography with flame photometric detector (GC-FPD) analysis, and led to the conclusion that the herbicide was dissipated in the environment, reaching levels as high as 3.9 microgl(-1) in underground water and 15.8 microgl(-1) in the river receiving tail waters. The feasibility of the application of treatment methodologies based on adsorption or biodegradation as processes to remove molinate from real-world waters was assessed. These methods seem suitable to reduce molinate concentrations to values in the range of the legally recommended limits (<0.5 microgl(-1)).
15823411	The relationship between codon usage and gene function was investigated while considering a dataset of 2106 nuclear genes of Oryza sativa. The results of standard chi(2) test and F-statistic showed that for every 59 synonymous codons, a strongly significant association with gene functional categories existed in rice, indicating that codon usage was generally coordinated with gene function whether it was at the level of individual amino acids or at the level of nucleotides. However, it could not be directly said that the use of every codons differed significantly between any two functional categories. Notably, there existed large difference both in selection for biased codons or selection intensity among functional categories. Therefore, we identified at least two classes of genes: one group of genes, mainly belonging to the "METABOLISM" category, was tended to use G- and/or C-ending codons while the other was more biased to choose codons ending with A and/or U. The latter group contained genes of various functions, especially those genes classified into the "Nuclear Structure" category. These observations will be more important for molecular genetic engineering and genome functional annotation.
15825372	An ICP-MS method for direct determination of 15 trace rare earth elements in rice was developed. Rapid and complete dissolution of rice was achieved by a microwave digestion procedure with concentrated nitric acid and hydrogen peroxide. The detection limits are 7.0-25.8 pg/mL, the recoveries for spiked samples are 95-105%, RSDs are 2.3-4.2%. This method is rapid, sensitive and accurate.
15825441	Based on the experimental data of paddy rice planted geographically periodically without control in the Anning River Valley of Sichuan Province, this paper quantitatively analyzed the effects of meteorological conditions from 40 days before heading to ripeness on the biochemical qualities of paddy rice, and developed a model about the integrated relationships between biochemical qualities of paddy rice and mean temperature, daily range of temperature and daylight hours, which would be of significance both for the instruction of paddy distribution in the Anning River Valley and for improving rice qualities via adjusting planting time. The results showed that climate conditions had a great effect on the biochemical qualities of paddy rice, which was different in ways and in critical periods. The period when the correlation between some ingredients of rice and climate conditions was most significant was before or after, or from before to after full heading, which widened the existing knowledge about the period which was important for paddy rice qualities forming. Applying this finding in the Anning River Valley during 2002-2003, the accumulated high-grade paddy farming area stood at 73,000 hm2, 30,000 hm2 more than that in 2001, and brought 0.2 billion yuan increment to the peasants, promoting the development of high-grade paddy greatly.
15825446	A species of fungal-feeding nematodes (Aphelenchus avenae) and two species of fungi (Micheli corticolus and Moniliaceae sp.) were isolated from an alluvial soil planted with paddy-rice and wheat in subtropical region. In order to approach their interactions and effects on soil nitrogen mineralization, a gnotobiotic microcosm experiment was carried out with four treatments, i.e., 1) soil + fungi-I (M. corticolus), 2) soil + fungi I + Aphelenchus avenae, 3) soil + fungi II (Moniliaceae sp.), and 4) soil + fungi II + Aphelenchus avenae at 22 degrees C for 25 days. The results showed that the individuals of nematode and fungi were increased simultaneously, suggesting that the inoculation of A. avenae stimulated the growth of fungi. The fungal-feeding nematode increased during the initial 20 days of incubation and then decreased slowly, and the individuals of the nematode that fed on Moniliaceae sp. (II) were higher than those fed on M. corticolus (I) (P<0.01). In the first 12 days of incubation, the population of Moniliaceae sp. (II) increased 2.5-3.5 times, while that of M. corticolus (I) increased slower but caught up after the 12th day, and the density reached 5.0-5.7 times higher than the corresponding treatments with only fungi inoculation. The interactions encouraged the soil nitrogen mineralization of all four treatments, as compared with the control. Comparing the treatments with and without fungal-feeding nematode inoculation, the treatments with fungal-feeding nematode had a higher content of soil NH4+-N than those with only fungi inoculations, which indicated that nematode had a greater effect on soil nitrogen mineralization than fungi. As for the two species of fungi, M. corticolus (I) had a greater effect on soil nitrogen mineralization than Moniliaceae sp. (II). It was observed, however, that the nitrification rate declined as compared with the control.
15825447	This paper assessed the effects of cry1Abl/cry1Ac-carrying transgenic Bacillus thuringiensis rice (Bt rice) and chemical insecticides on the arthropod communities under paddy-field conditions in terms of arthropod guild dominance, family composition and dominance distribution of each guild, individuals of each guild, some common indices of arthropod communities, and community dissimilarity. In most cases, no significant differences were found between the Bt and control rice plots without any chemical insecticide spray in such arthropod community specific parameters as guild dominance, family composition and dominance distribution, temporal dynamics of the individuals of each guild or all arthropod, as well as some common community indices (including species richness, Shannon-Wiener diversity index, evenness index and dominant index) and their temporal dynamics. The similarity of arthropod community between the Bt and control rice plots were apparently higher. It was clear that Bt rice generally showed no marked negative effect on the arthropod community in paddy field. In contrast, some arthropod community specific parameters such as guild dominances in the control plot with chemical insecticide spray were in some cases markedly and even significantly different from those in the control plot without any chemical insecticide spray. The similarity of arthropod community between the control plots with and without chemical insecticide spray was relatively lower. It could be concluded that the effect of Bt rice on the arthropod community was apparently lower than that of chemical insecticides.
15825684	This paper reports the results of studies performed to investigate the potential of applying thin layer chromatography (TLC) detection in combination with selected extraction and cleanup methods, for providing an alternative cost-effective analytical procedure for screening and confirmation of pesticide residues in plant commodities. The extraction was carried out with ethyl acetate and an on-line extraction method applying an acetone-dichloromethane mixture. The extracts were cleaned up with SX-3 gel, an adsorbent mixture of active carbon, magnesia, and diatomaceous earth, and on silica micro cartridges. The Rf values of 118 pesticides were tested in eleven elution systems with UV, and eight biotest methods and chemical detection reagents. Cabbage, green peas, orange, and tomatoes were selected as representative sample matrices for fruits and vegetables, while maize, rice, and wheat represented cereal grains. As an internal quality control measure, marker compounds were applied on each plate to verify the proper elution and detection conditions. The Rf values varied in the different elution systems. The best separation (widest Rf range) was achieved with silica gel (SG)--ethyl acetate (0.05-0.7), SG--benzene, (0.02-0.7) and reverse phase RP-18 F-254S layer with acetone: methanol: water/30:30:30 (v/v) (0.1-0.8). The relative standard deviation of Rf values (CV(Rf)) within laboratory reproducibility was generally less than 20%, except below 0.2 Rf, where the CVRf rapidly increased with decreasing Rf values. The fungi spore inhibition, chloroplast inhibition, and enzyme inhibition were found most suitable for detection of pesticides primarily for confirming their identity or screening for known substances. Their use for determination of pesticide residues in samples of unknown origin is not recommended.
15826028	A rapid predictive method based on near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) was developed to measure acid detergent fiber (ADF), neutral detergent fiber (NDF), and acid detergent lignin (ADL) of rice stem materials. A total of 207 samples were divided into two subsets, one subset (approximately 136 samples) for calibration and cross-validation and the other subset for independent external validation to evaluate the calibration equations. Different mathematical treatments were applied to obtain the best calibration and validation results. The highest coefficient of determination for calibration (R2) and coefficient of determination for cross-validation (1-VR) were 0.968 and 0.949 for ADF, 0.846 and 0.812 for NDF, and 0.897 and 0.843 for ADL, respectively. Independent external validation still gave a high coefficient of determination for external validation (r2) and a low standard error of performance (SEP) for the three parameters; the best validation results were SEP = 0.933 and r2 = 0.959 for ADF, SEP = 2.228 and r2 = 0.775 for NDF, and SEP = 0.616 and r2 = 0.847 for ADL, indicating that NIR gave a sufficiently accurate prediction of ADF and ADL content of rice material but a less satisfactory prediction for NDF. This study suggested that routine screening for these forage quality parameters with large numbers of samples is possible with NIRS in early-generation selection in rice-breeding programs.
1582603	To evaluate the impact of food on the efficacy of oral rehydration solution (ORS), a randomised, controlled clinical trial was conducted in 182 adults with cholera. After initial rehydration with an intravenous polyelectrolyte solution for four hours, the patients were randomised to receive one of four rehydration therapies: glucose based ORS and no food for the first 24 hours (group A), glucose based ORS plus food from the beginning of treatment (group B), rice based ORS with no food for the first 24 hours (group C), and rice based ORS plus food from start of therapy (group D). Tetracycline was given after 72 hours to all patients. No significant differences in ORS intake, stool output, and duration of diarrhoea were noted between groups A and B and between groups C and D. A substantial and significant reduction in stool output was, however, shown in the groups who received rice based ORS irrespective of feeding. These results show that food does not potentiate the efficacy of either glucose based or rice based ORS in adults with cholera. Rice based ORS compared with glucose ORS substantially reduces purging in cholera patients.
15827252	Genetically modified (GM) rice (LibertyLink, event LLRICE62) that is tolerant to glufosinate ammonium (Liberty) herbicide was compared with a near-isogenic (NI) conventional medium-grain brown rice (cultivar, Bengal) and a commercially milled long-grain brown rice in diets for growing-finishing pigs. The GM and NI rice were grown in 2000. The GM rice was from fields treated (GM+) or not treated (GM-) with glufosinate herbicide. The GM- and NI rice were grown using herbicide regimens typical of southern United States rice production practices. The four rice grains were similar in composition. Growing-finishing pigs (n = 96) were fed fortified rice-soybean meal diets containing the four different rice grains from 25 to 106 kg BW. Diets contained 0.99% lysine initially (growing phase), with lysine decreased to 0.80% (early finishing phase) and 0.65% (late finishing phase), when pigs reached 51 and 77 kg, respectively. The percentage of rice in the four diets was constant during each of the three phases (72.8, 80.0, and 85.8% for the growing, early-finishing, and late-finishing phases, respectively). There were six pen replicates (three pens of barrows and three pens of gilts) and four pigs per pen for each dietary treatment. All pigs were slaughtered at the termination of the study to collect carcass data. At the end of the 98-d experiment, BW gain, feed intake (as-fed basis), and feed:gain ratio did not differ (P > 0.05) for pigs fed the GM+ vs. conventional rice diets, but growth performance traits of pigs fed the GM+ rice diets were superior (P < 0.05) to those of pigs fed the GM- rice diet (ADG = 0.86, 0.79, 0.81, and 0.85 kg/d; ADFI = 2.41, 2.49, 2.37, and 2.45 kg/d; feed:gain = 2.80, 3.17, 2.95, and 2.89 for GM+, GM-, NI, and commercially milled rice, respectively). Carcass traits (adjusted for final BW) did not differ (P = 0.10) among treatments (hot carcass yield = 73.5, 72.6, 72.6, and 73.2%; 10th-rib backfat = 23.0, 22.7, 21.3, and 23.8 mm; LM area = 38.6, 38.0, 38.2, and 38.1 cm(2); carcass fat-free lean = 50.5, 50.5, 51.2, and 50.0%). Gilts grew slower (P < 0.05) and were leaner (P < 0.05) than barrows. Responses to type of rice did not differ between barrows and gilts, with no evidence of a diet x gender interaction (P = 0.50) for any trait. The results indicate that the glufosinate herbicide-tolerant rice was similar in composition and nutritional value to conventional rice for growing-finishing pigs.
15829513	We identified a gene of maize (Zea mays L.) that is transcriptionally activated in decapitated coleoptiles. The amino acid sequence deduced from its full-length cDNA indicated that the identified gene encodes a novel leucine-rich-repeat receptor-like kinase. The gene is named WOUND-RESPONSIVE AND PHYTOCHROME-REGULATED KINASE1 (WPK1) based on the findings of this study. Database searches revealed two and three homologs of WPK1 for Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, respectively. These homologs occurred along with WPK1 on a phylogenetic branch separated from all reported receptor kinases. We uncovered that the level of WPK1 transcripts is up-regulated rapidly and transiently in response to wounding and red light. The response to red light was reversible by far-red light, indicating that it is mediated by phytochrome. Applied jasmonic acid activated the expression of WPK1, while ethylene, salicylic acid and abscisic acid had no such effect. These results strongly suggested that WPK1 is a component of the jasmonate-mediated signaling that participates in both wound-induced defensive and phytochrome-mediated photomorphogenetic responses. Furthermore, it was found that both wounding and red light up-regulate the transcript level of ZmAOS, a gene for the jasmonate biosynthesis enzyme allene oxide synthase, and that auxin inhibits the expression of WPK1 but not of ZmAOS. We present a model of jasmonate-mediated signaling to explain the results obtained.
15829602	Although the importance of auxin in root development is well known, the molecular mechanisms involved are still unknown. We characterized a rice (Oryza sativa) mutant defective in crown root formation, crown rootless1 (crl1). The crl1 mutant showed additional auxin-related abnormal phenotypic traits in the roots, such as decreased lateral root number, auxin insensitivity in lateral root formation, and impaired root gravitropism, whereas no abnormal phenotypic traits were observed in aboveground organs. Expression of Crl1, which encodes a member of the plant-specific ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2/LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES protein family, was localized in tissues where crown and lateral roots are initiated and overlapped with beta-glucuronidase staining controlled by the DR5 promoter. Exogenous auxin treatment induced Crl1 expression without de novo protein biosynthesis, and this induction required the degradation of AUXIN/INDOLE-3-ACETIC ACID proteins. Crl1 contains two putative auxin response elements (AuxREs) in its promoter region. The proximal AuxRE specifically interacted with a rice AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR (ARF) and acted as a cis-motif for Crl1 expression. We conclude that Crl1 encodes a positive regulator for crown and lateral root formation and that its expression is directly regulated by an ARF in the auxin signaling pathway.
15829718	We previously showed that sustained exposure to febrile-range hyperthermia (FRH) for 24 h caused an increase in circulating granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) levels and a peripheral neutrophilia in mice (Hasday J, Garrison A, Singh I, Standiford T, Ellis G, Rao S, He JR, Rice P, Frank M, Goldblum S, and Viscardi R. Am J Pathol 162: 2005-2017, 2003). In this study, we utilized a conscious temperature-clamped mouse model to analyze the kinetics of G-CSF expression and peripheral neutrophil expansion and the contributions of FRH-induced G-CSF expression, glucocorticoid generation, and catecholamine-induced neutrophil demargination. In conscious mice housed at an ambient temperature of 34.5 degrees C, core temperature rapidly equilibrated at 39.5-40 degrees C. Peripheral neutrophil counts increased 2-fold after 24-h exposure to hyperthermia, peaked at 3.6-fold baseline levels after 36-h exposure to FRH, and returned to baseline levels after 42 h of sustained hyperthermia. Plasma G-CSF levels were increased by 6.8-fold after 24 h and peaked at 40-fold baseline levels after 36 h in the hyperthermic mice. Plasma corticosterone levels peaked at 3.3-fold baseline levels after 30-h sustained hyperthermia and returned to baseline by 42 h. Immunoneutralization of G-CSF blocked FRH-induced peripheral neutrophilia, but blockade of the glucocorticoid receptor with mifepristone failed to modify FRH-induced neutrophilia. Epinephrine induced similar increases in peripheral blood absolute neutrophil counts in euthermic mice (2.2-fold increase) and mice exposed to FRH for 36 h (1.8-fold increase). Collectively, these data suggest that FRH-induced expression of G-CSF drives the sustained peripheral neutrophilia that occurs during sustained (36 h) hyperthermia, whereas glucocorticoid generation and catecholamine-induced demargination play little role in this response.
15830133	Five ab initio programs (FGENESH, GeneMark.hmm, GENSCAN, GlimmerR and Grail) were evaluated for their accuracy in predicting maize genes. Two of these programs, GeneMark.hmm and GENSCAN had been trained for maize; FGENESH had been trained for monocots (including maize), and the others had been trained for rice or Arabidopsis. Initial evaluations were conducted using eight maize genes (gl8a, pdc2, pdc3, rf2c, rf2d, rf2e1, rth1, and rth3) of which the sequences were not released to the public prior to conducting this evaluation. The significant advantage of this data set for this evaluation is that these genes could not have been included in the training sets of the prediction programs. FGENESH yielded the most accurate and GeneMark.hmm the second most accurate predictions. The five programs were used in conjunction with RT-PCR to identify and establish the structures of two new genes in the a1-sh2 interval of the maize genome. FGENESH, GeneMark.hmm and GENSCAN were tested on a larger data set consisting of maize assembled genomic islands (MAGIs) that had been aligned to ESTs. FGENESH, GeneMark.hmm and GENSCAN correctly predicted gene models in 773, 625, and 371 MAGIs, respectively, out of the 1353 MAGIs that comprise data set 2.
15830462	The present study is concerned with the selection of economically available agricultural starchy substrate for the production of alpha amylase by Bacillus licheniformis. Different agricultural starchy substrates such as soluble starch, hordium, pearl millet, rice, corn, gram and wheat starch were tested for the production of alpha amylase by parental and its mutant derivatives. The production of alpha amylase was 10-folds better by the mutant strain B. licheniformis GCUCM-30 than the parental strain when pearl millet starch at 1.5% level and nutrient broth concentrations at the level of 0.25% was supplemented to the fermentation medium.
15831788	Mariner-like elements (MLEs) are DNA transposons found throughout the plant and animal kingdoms. A previous computational survey of the rice (Oryza sativa) genome sequence revealed 34 full length MLEs (Osmars) belonging to 25 distinct families. This survey, which also identified sequence similarities between the Osmar elements and the Stowaway superfamily of MITEs, led to the formulation of a hypothesis whereby Stowaways are mobilized by OSMAR transposases. Here we investigate the DNA-binding activities and specificities of two OSMAR transposases, OSMAR5 and OSMAR10. Like other mariner-like transposases, the OSMARs bind specifically to the terminal inverted repeat (TIR) sequences of their encoding transposons. OSMAR5 binds DNA through a bipartite N-terminal domain containing two functionally separable helix-turn-helix motifs, resembling the paired domain of Tc1-like transposases and PAX transcription factors in metazoans. Furthermore, binding of the OSMARs is not limited to their own TIRs; OSMAR5 transposase can also interact in vitro with TIRs from closely related Osmar elements and with consensus TIRs of several Stowaway families mined from the rice genome sequence. These results provide the first biochemical evidence for a functional relationship between Osmar elements and Stowaway MITEs and lead us to suggest that there is extensive cross-talk among related but distinct transposon families co-existing in a single eukaryote genome.
15832681	The accumulation of H2O2 by NaCl was observed in the roots of rice seedlings. Treatment with NaCl caused an increase in the activities of ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and glutathione reductase (GR) and the expression of OsAPX and OsGR in rice roots. Exogenously applied H2O2 also enhanced the activities of APX and GR and the expression of OsAPX and OsGR in rice roots. The accumulation of H2O2 in rice roots in response to NaCl was inhibited by the NADPH oxidase inhibitors, diphenyleneiodonium chloride (DPI) and imidazole (IMD). However, DPI, IMD, and dimethylthiourea, a H2O2 trap, did not reduce NaCl-enhanced activities of APX and GR and expression of OsAPX and OsGR. It appears that H2O2 is not involved in the regulation of NaCl-induced APX and GR activities and OsAPX and OsGR expression in rice roots.
15833117	Natural antisense transcripts (NAT) are a class of endogenous coding or non-protein-coding RNAs with sequence complementarity to other transcripts. Several lines of evidence have shown that cis- and trans-NATs may participate in a broad range of gene regulatory events. Genome-wide identification of cis-NATs in human, mouse and rice has revealed their widespread occurrence in eukaryotes. However, little is known about cis-NATs in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. We developed a new computational method to predict and identify cis-encoded NATs in Arabidopsis and found 1,340 potential NAT pairs. The expression of both sense and antisense transcripts of 957 NAT pairs was confirmed using Arabidopsis full-length cDNAs and public massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) data. Three known or putative Arabidopsis imprinted genes have cis-antisense transcripts. Sequences and the genomic arrangement of two Arabidopsis NAT pairs are conserved in rice. We combined information from full-length cDNAs and Arabidopsis genome annotation in our NAT prediction work and reported cis-NAT pairs that could not otherwise be identified by using one of the two datasets only. Analysis of MPSS data suggested that for most Arabidopsis cis-NAT pairs, there is predominant expression of one of the two transcripts in a tissue-specific manner.
15833233	The literature on pediatric reflux can be divided into studies addressing clinically apparent reflux (vomiting or regurgitation) and reflux as measured by pH probe or other methods. Sodium alginate reduces vomiting and improves parents' assessment of symptoms (strength of recommendation [SOR]: B, small randomized controlled trial [RCT]). Formula thickened with rice cereal decreases the number of postprandial emesis episodes in infants with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) (SOR: B, small RCT). There are conflicting data on the effect of carob bean gum as a formula thickener and its effect on regurgitation frequency (SOR: B, small RCTs). Metoclopramide does not affect vomiting or regurgitation, but is associated with greater weight gain in infants over 3 months with reflux (SOR: B, low-quality RCTs). Carob bean gum used as a formula thickener decreases reflux as measured by intraluminal impedance but not as measured by pH probe (SOR: B, RCT). Omeprazole and metoclopramide each improve the reflux index as measured by esophageal pH probe (SOR: B, RCT). Evidence is conflicting for other commonly used conservative measures (such as positional changes) or other medications for symptomatic relief of infant GERD. There is very limited evidence or expert opinion regarding breastfed infants, particularly with regard to preservation of breastfeeding during therapy.
15834008	Rice (Oryza sativa), a monocotyledonous plant that does not cold acclimate, has evolved differently from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), which cold acclimates. To understand the stress response of rice in comparison with that of Arabidopsis, we developed transgenic rice plants that constitutively expressed CBF3/DREB1A (CBF3) and ABF3, Arabidopsis genes that function in abscisic acid-independent and abscisic acid-dependent stress-response pathways, respectively. CBF3 in transgenic rice elevated tolerance to drought and high salinity, and produced relatively low levels of tolerance to low-temperature exposure. These data were in direct contrast to CBF3 in Arabidopsis, which is known to function primarily to enhance freezing tolerance. ABF3 in transgenic rice increased tolerance to drought stress alone. By using the 60 K Rice Whole Genome Microarray and RNA gel-blot analyses, we identified 12 and 7 target genes that were activated in transgenic rice plants by CBF3 and ABF3, respectively, which appear to render the corresponding plants acclimated for stress conditions. The target genes together with 13 and 27 additional genes are induced further upon exposure to drought stress, consequently making the transgenic plants more tolerant to stress conditions. Interestingly, our transgenic plants exhibited neither growth inhibition nor visible phenotypic alterations despite constitutive expression of the CBF3 or ABF3, unlike the results previously obtained from Arabidopsis where transgenic plants were stunted.
15834137	The homeologous Orp1 and Orp2 regions of maize and the orthologous regions in sorghum and rice were compared by generating sequence data for >486 kb of genomic DNA. At least three genic rearrangements differentiate the maize Orp1 and Orp2 segments, including an insertion of a single gene and two deletions that removed one gene each, while no genic rearrangements were detected in the maize Orp2 region relative to sorghum. Extended comparison of the orthologous Orp regions of sorghum and japonica rice uncovered numerous genic rearrangements and the presence of a transposon-rich region in rice. Only 11 of 27 genes (40%) are arranged in the same order and orientation between sorghum and rice. Of the 8 genes that are uniquely present in the sorghum region, 4 were found to have single-copy homologs in both rice and Arabidopsis, but none of these genes are located near each other, indicating frequent gene movement. Further comparison of the Orp segments from two rice subspecies, japonica and indica, revealed that the transposon-rich region is both an ancient and current hotspot for retrotransposon accumulation and genic rearrangement. We also identify unequal gene conversion as a mechanism for maize retrotransposon rearrangement.
15834640	The PEND protein is a DNA-binding protein in the inner envelope membrane of the developing chloroplast. It consists of a short pre-sequence, an N-terminal DNA-binding domain (cbZIP), a central repeat domain, and a C-terminal transmembrane domain. PEND homologs have been detected in various angiosperms, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica napus, Medicago truncatula, cucumber and cherry. Monocot homologs have also been detected in barley and rice, but sequence conservation was low in monocots. PEND-related sequences have not been detected in non-flowering plants and algae. Green fluorescent protein fusions consisting of the N-terminal as well as full-length PEND homologs in A. thaliana and B. napus were targeted to chloroplasts, and localized to nucleoids and chloroplast periphery, respectively. Immunoblot analysis suggested that crucifer homologs were present in chloroplasts probably as a dimer, as in the case of pea. These results suggest that PEND protein is present in angiosperms, and the homologs in crucifers are functionally analogous to the PEND protein in pea.
1583494	Ground-applied ULV, cold aerosol, insecticide sprays were evaluated against caged adult female Anopheles quadrimaculatus. Treatments included 2 rates each of resmethrin, permethrin and a water-based permethrin formulation. Mortality at 24 h posttreatment was not significantly (P greater than or equal to 0.05) different between the resmethrin and water-based permethrin treatments. Both rates of permethrin were significantly (P less than 0.05) less effective than the other treatments.
15834996	The National Space Biomedical Research Institute (NSBRI) is supporting the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) education mission through a comprehensive Education and Public Outreach Program (EPOP) that communicates the excitement and significance of space biology to schools, families, and lay audiences. The EPOP is comprised of eight academic institutions: Baylor College of Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Morehouse School of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Texas A&M University, University of Texas Medical Branch Galveston, Rice University, and the University of Washington. This paper describes the programs and products created by the EPOP to promote space life science education in schools and among the general public. To date, these activities have reached thousands of teachers and students around the US and have been rated very highly.
15836379	Low-lying resonances of the CH2(a 1A1) system (J=0) in an accurate ab initio potential energy surface are studied using a filter-diagonalization method. The width of these resonances fluctuates by more than two orders of magnitude and on average increases with the energy. Analysis of the resonance states concludes that the unimolecular decay of the excited molecular system near the dissociation threshold is neither mode specific nor statistical state specific. This is apparently due to remnant regularity embedded in the largely chaotic classical phase space, as evidenced by periodic orbit analysis. As a result, the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus and statistical adiabatic channel models overestimate the average unimolecular decay rate. The implications of the resonances for the bimolecular C(1D)+H2 reaction are also discussed.
15838541	Using a strategy requiring only modest computational resources, wheat expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences from various sources were assembled into contigs and compared with a nonredundant barley sequence assembly, with ESTs, with complete draft genome sequences of rice and Arabidopsis thaliana, and with ESTs from other plant species. These comparisons indicate that (i) wheat sequences available from public sources represent a substantial proportion of the diversity of wheat coding sequences, (ii) prediction of open reading frames in the whole genome sequence improves when supplemented with EST information from other species, (iii) a substantial number of candidates for novel genes that are unique to wheat or related species can be identified, and (iv) a smaller number of genes can be identified that are common to monocots and dicots but absent from Arabidopsis. The sequences in the last group may have been lost from Arabidopsis after descendance from a common ancestor. Examples of potential novel wheat genes and Triticeae-specific genes are presented.
15838668	The possible function of the maize transmembrane protein TM20 in hormone transport has been investigated using immunological methods and by microinjection of TM20 cRNA in Xenopus oocytes. The existence of a similar gene in rice indicates that the overall structure of the deduced protein is conserved between these two cereals. An antibody raised against a conserved motif, in a loop between two transmembrane domains, locates the protein (TM20) in differentiating provascular cells in maize embryo. The protein has a polarized distribution within the cell in the most differentiated stages of development. Xenopus laevis oocytes microinjected with TM20 appear to modify transport activities across the plasma membrane. These results are discussed in relation to other transport proteins that influence plant development.
15839201	The ultracytochemical localizations of ATPase activity on amyloplasts and protein bodies were studied by using a lead precipitation technique at middle and late developmental stage of endosperm in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Minghui 63). The results showed that the inner and outer plasma membrane of amyloplasts, the web-like passages among starch grains and the amorphous substance surrounding the amyloplasts exhibited high ATPase activity. ATPase activity products were present on the membranes of protein body I and protein body II, and on the vacuoles and vesicle-like structures surrounding protein bodies. Active products of ATPase were also located on the plasma membrane and cell wall of starchy endosperm cells, on the cell wall, plasma membrane, nucleus and plasmodesma of aleurone and subaleurone layer cells. According to the distribution pattern of active products of ATPase, we infer that the web-like passage in amyloplast may be the transporting channel for nutrients flowing into the amyloplast. The ATPase on amyloplasts and protein bodies can supply the power for nutrients passing through the plasma membranes.
15839578	No validated models in Europe are capable of simulating the environmental fate of pesticides under the specific conditions of rice fields. Rice water quality--vadose zone flow and transport (RICEWQ-VADOFT) is a model developed from the coupling of a surface runoff model (RICEWQ) and a vadose zone flow and transport model (VADOFT) for determining predicted environmental concentrations in paddy water and sediment, runoff, and groundwater. This study is intended to evaluate the capability of this model to simulate effectively the environmental fate of the herbicide pretilachlor in the paddy environment. A two-year field study conducted in a representative rice-cultivated area of northern Italy provided measured concentrations of pretilachlor in paddy water and sediment and also a limited number of observations on runoff losses. The model successfully predicted the water balance in the paddy field in both years. After limited calibration, the model predicted the fate of pretilachlor in paddy water and sediment with high accuracy. Agreement between predicted and measured concentrations of pretilachlor in both years was assessed statistically using several statistical indicators. For example, modeling efficiency (EF) values of 0.867 to 0.935 and 0.702 to 0.718 in paddy water and sediment, respectively, document the strong agreement between predicted and measured pesticide concentrations. The model predictions showed high agreement with the limited amount of measured runoff data in 2002. The model predicted that no significant amounts of pretilachlor would leach below the top 25 cm of the soil, although no measured data were available to evaluate the predicted results. A sensitivity analysis of the model to variables controlling pesticide partitioning to paddy sediment (VBIND, depth for direct partitioning of pesticide to bed sediment; VMIX, mixing velocity by molecular diffusion) revealed that the predictions of pesticide leaching were influenced strongly by those variables. Generally the RICEWQ-VADOFT model is a useful modeling tool for pesticide risk assessment in rice paddies.
15840641	Net photosynthetic rates (Pns) in leaves were compared between rice plants grown in ambient air control and free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE, about 200 micromol mol(-1) above ambient) treatment rings. When measured at the same CO2 concentration, the Pn of FACE leaves decreased significantly, indicating that photosynthetic acclimation to high CO2 occurs. Although stomatal conductance (Gs) in FACE leaves was markedly decreased, intercellular CO2 concentrations (Ci) were almost the same in FACE and ambient leaves, indicating that the photosynthetic acclimation is not caused by the decreased Gs. Furthermore, carboxylation efficiency and maximal Pn, both light and CO2-saturated Pn, were decreased in FACE leaves, as shown by the Pn-Ci curves. In addition, the soluble protein, Rubisco (ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate caboxylase/oxygenase), and its activase contents as well as the sucrose-phosphate synthase activity decreased significantly, while some soluble sugar, inorganic phosphate, chlorophyll and light-harvesting complex II (LHC II) contents increased in FACE leaves. It appears that the photosynthetic acclimation in rice leaves is related to both ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) carboxylation limitation and RuBP regeneration limitation.
15840932	A promoter of the gene encoding beta-1, 3-glucanase isoenzyme GIII was amplified from barley genomic DNA using PCR. The GIII gene promoter, designated P(GIII), was ligated upstream of the gus report gene and pGIII-gus fusion fragment was then cloned into a binary vector pCAMBIA1300 for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Taipei 309). PCR analyses indicated that the fusion gene was present in all T0 transgenic plants. The integration of the gene into rice genomic DNA was further confirmed by Southern blot. Histochemical staining and spectrofluorophotometric analyses of transgenic rice leaves showed that the GUS activity was increased after treatment with SA and fungal elicitor. Northern blot analysis also showed expression of such induction. Histochemical staining of T(1) rice seeds displayed marked GUS activity after induction with SA and elicitor, while no GUS activity was detected in untreated T(1) rice seeds. The results presented here strongly suggested that P(GIII) could be pathogen-inducible promoter.
15840936	The dominant male sterility gene Ms2 in wheat has been widely used in recurrent selection and variety improvement. Identification of genes associated with the male sterility in Ms2-carrying wheat will help us understand how Ms2 functions. Using a pair of isogenic lines of Ms2, subtractive hybridization was conducted with cDNA from bulked spikelets at meiophase of sterile plants as the tester and cDNA from the same tissues of fertile plants as the driver. Two major bands at 270 bp and 450 bp were obtained by suppression PCR (polymerase chain reaction) of the subtractive cDNA. A total of 882 recombinants from PCR product cloning were isolated for reverse Northern analysis. The results demonstrated that up to 90% of the inserts in the library were up-regulated in the sterile spikelets. Twenty-one unique inserts from this library were sequenced. Similarity search showed that eighteen of them were homologous to ESTs (expression sequence tags) derived from spike or anther tissues at meiophase. The chromosome locations of nine of the ESTs were determined using C.S. (Chinese spring) nulli-tetrasomic lines, one of which was assigned to chromosome group 4 that includes chromosome 4D where Ms2 is located. In addition, four additional ESTs could also be assigned to this group according to their homology to BACs (bacterial artificial chromosomes) or PAC (P1 artificial chromosomes) of rice chromosome 3. The expression patterns of eight of the inserts examined displayed increased expression in spikelets and anthers of the sterile plants.
15840940	The effects and the relationship between soaking rice seed of exogenous glucose, fructose and nitric oxide (NO) donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) on the seed germination under salt stress were investigated. The results showed that employment of exogenous fructose, glucose and NO donor SNP could significantly promote the germination index and the early germination rate of rice seed under salt stress. Also, SNP pretreatment enhanced endogenous glucose and fructose contents. Effects of exogenous glucose and fructose combined with different concentrations of SNP on the rice seed germination and seedling growth under salt stress were surveyed. The results also showed that there existing positive effect of application of glucose plus SNP on the rice seed germination in comparison with existing a few negative effects of fructose plus SNP pretreatment. Additionally, the alleviation of inhibition of early rice seedling growth under salt stress by SNP could be modulated by glucose and fructose pretreatment, also the effect of glucose was stronger.
15841093	We have previously reported on distinct dietary patterns obtained from principal components analysis (PCA) of food frequency questionnaires from 3-y-old children. In this study, we repeat these analyses at 4 and 7 y of age. As part of regular self-completion questionnaires, the primary source of data collection in the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children, parents were asked to record the frequency of consumption of 57 different food types for their children. A total of 9550 subjects (68% of original cohort) were available from the 4-y data sweep and 8286 (59%) from the 7-y. Distinct dietary patterns were identified at each age using PCA. These were then related to social and demographic characteristics of the parent and child. Three dietary patterns were established cross-sectionally at both 4 and 7 y of age to best describe the types of diet being consumed. One component at both time points described a diet based on 'junk'-type foods with high-fat and sugar content, processed and convenience foods. A second described the 'traditional' British diet based on meat, potatoes and vegetables. The final, a 'health-conscious' pattern was associated with vegetarian style foods, rice, pasta, salad and fruit. At both time points, the 'junk' pattern was significantly more likely in white children, where maternal education level was low and where the child had more siblings. The 'traditional' pattern was more likely in girls, where the mother had a partner and in nonvegetarians (both mother and child). The 'health-conscious' pattern was more likely with increasing levels of education and increasing maternal age. We have demonstrated consistent dietary patterns in cross-sectional analyses at two ages in these children with similar socio-demographic associations evident at each age. Future analyses will track these dietary patterns over time and form a basis for the study of a variety of childhood outcomes.
15841361	Amylose content (AC), gel consistency (GC) and gelatinazation temperature (GT) are three important traits that influence the cooking and eating quality of rice. The objective of this study was to characterize the genetic components, including main-effect quantitative trait loci (QTLs), epistatic QTLs and QTL-by-environment interactions (QEs), that are involved in the control of these three traits. A population of doubled haploid (DH) lines derived from a cross between two indica varieties Zhenshan 97 and H94 was used, and data were collected from a field experiment conducted in two different environments. A genetic linkage map consisting of 218 simple sequence repeat (SSR) loci was constructed, and QTL analysis performed using QTLMAPPER 1.6: resolved the genetic components into main-effect QTLs, epistatic QTLs and QEs. The analysis detected a total of 12 main-effect QTLs for the three traits, with a QTL corresponding to the Wx locus showing a major effect on AC and GC, and a QTL corresponding to the Alk locus having a major effect on GT. Ten digenic interactions involving 19 loci were detected for the three traits, and six main-effect QTLs and two pairs of epistatic QTLs were involved in QEs. While the main-effect QTLs, especially the ones corresponding to known major loci, apparently played predominant roles in the genetic basis of the traits, under certain conditions epistatic effects and QEs also played important roles in controlling the traits. The implications of the findings for rice quality improvement are discussed.
15843341	to investigate whether rice adult plant resistance (APR) is related to activation of long terminal repeat (LTR) retroelements, polymorphism of LTR retroelemnts Tos17 are studied using SSAP (Sequence-Specific Amplification Polymorphism) in seedlings and adult plants of rice cultivar Wase Aikoku 3 inoculated with Xanthomonas oryzae pv. Oryzae, water and those untreated. Of 2000 fragments detected, 9 and 2 are activated in seedlings and adult plants induced by development, respectively; each 3 fragments are activated in seedlings and adult plants induced by pathogen, respectively. The number of activated Tos17 induced by development is more in seedlings than that in adult plants while it is equal due to pathogen induction in seedlings and adult plants, suggest that the activation of Tos17 induced by development probably associate with rice APR to bacterial blight.
15843358	Biochip technology which had emerged from the fusion of biotechnology and micro/nanofabrication technology at the end of 1980s has been widely used in life science, medicine, clinical diagnosis, drug development, agriculture, environmental protection and strategies. DNA microarray (also call gene chip, DNA chip), one kind of biochips, is small chip containing many oligonucleotide probes. It can hybridize with labelled sample, making it possible to detect large numbers of oligonucleotides at one time. So DNA microarray can overcome the disadvantage of traditional hybridization technology such as complexity, low automation, poor efficiency and quantity of molecules detected. This paper describes a new method to detect transgenic plant with gene chip. We have developed a novel arrayed-primer extension technique. It combines hybridization and PCR in one step, while ordinary DNA microarray needs two separate steps. Therefore our method provide a feasibility to detect long DNA fragment .
15844361	Wheat high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) 1Bx14 and 1By15 isolated by preparative SDS-PAGE are used as antigen to immunize BALB/c mice. Subcutaneous inoculation of the antigen is performed. The intra-peritoneal injection is completed 3 days before fusion with myeloma cell (SP2/0) via PEG-1500. The fusion cells are selected by indirect enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay (ELISA). Positive hybrid cells are further verified three times by limit dilution of the culture cells. A hybridoma cell line is successfully obtained. The monoclonal antibody belongs to IgG1 subclass. In immunoblotting, the antibody binds to all HMW-GS of T. aestivum cultivars, but does not bind to other storage proteins in seeds of wheat. This result is consisting with the high homology in amino acid sequences among the HMW glutenin subunits in wheat. The antibody also binds to HMW-GS storage proteins in Aegilops squarrosa and T. durum (durum wheat). Furthermore, it also binds to HMW storage proteins in Secale cereale (rye), Hordeum vulgare (barley). However, it never binds seed storage proteins in other cereals such as maize, oat, rice, foxtail millet, sorghum etc. The antigen determinant recognized by the antibody has been located within hexapeptide [PGQGQQ] or / and nonapeptide [GYYPTSPQQ] in the central repetitive region of HMW-GS.
15846337	Magnaporthe grisea is the most destructive pathogen of rice worldwide and the principal model organism for elucidating the molecular basis of fungal disease of plants. Here, we report the draft sequence of the M. grisea genome. Analysis of the gene set provides an insight into the adaptations required by a fungus to cause disease. The genome encodes a large and diverse set of secreted proteins, including those defined by unusual carbohydrate-binding domains. This fungus also possesses an expanded family of G-protein-coupled receptors, several new virulence-associated genes and large suites of enzymes involved in secondary metabolism. Consistent with a role in fungal pathogenesis, the expression of several of these genes is upregulated during the early stages of infection-related development. The M. grisea genome has been subject to invasion and proliferation of active transposable elements, reflecting the clonal nature of this fungus imposed by widespread rice cultivation.
15846934	A descriptive-retrospective study was performed to find out some epidemiological aspects of leptospirosis in Los Palacios municipality in the period January 1996 to December 1998. Data were obtained from an epidemiological survey of leptospirosis cases, which was made y the Municipal Hygiene and Epidemiological Center. The results were 94% of cases were males; the most affected aged group was 14-19y (21,8%). Fever (100%), myalgia(84%) and arthralgia (62%) were the most common clinical findings. Rice harvesting work (87,5%) was significantly associated to the onset of disease.
15847335	Rice seed grains exposed to 240 ppm of seed dressing fungicide, MEMC showed increase in deposition of mercury with increase in period of observation (0h to 48h) in 765+/-5 mg of intact endosperm. The gradual increase in mercury deposition in intact endosperm caused simultaneous decrease in mercury content of the seed coat. Exposure periods of 5 to 20 min with 240 ppm of MEMC showed 5.5 to 8.72 microg of mercury deposition in 765+/-5 mg of intact endosperm. Increase in period of exposure (3 to 20 min) to 240 ppm of MEMC and also increase in chronic treatment to lower concentrations (1.5 ppm to 24 ppm) to seed grains have shown similar results in seedling growth parameters. Lower period of exposure or exposure to lower concentrations, both showed a significant inhibition of root growth, however the shoot growth showed stimulation. But higher exposure period or exposure to higher concentrations brought inhibition of both root and shoot growth. The exposure period showing 50% of root growth inhibition of 72h old seedling was calculated to be 10 min So also the chronic treatment showing the 50% of root growth inhibition was calculated to be 9 ppm. Ten min exposure of rice grain to 240 ppm of MEMC showed deposition of 7.11 microg of mercury in 765+/-5 mg of intact endosperm at 48h of observation (optimal phase of germinating process). Regression analysis indicated that by the time of 72h the intact endosperm and developing seedling might have acquired with a minimum amount of 10.23 microg of mercury from the seed coat. Finally it can be said that 10.23 microg of MEMC might be bringing 50% root growth inhibition in 72h old seedlings and 16.71 microg of mercury causing 50% inhibition of both root and shoot growth of 120h old seedlings.
15847972	This article presents qualitative and quantitative research findings on food habits of pregnant Indonesian women in relation to the economic crisis that arose in 1997. Between 1996 and 1998, dietary intakes were estimated for 450 pregnant women in Central Java. Between January and June 1999, four focus group discussions, 16 in-depth interviews and four non-participant observations were held with women, two in-depth interviews were held with traditional birth attendants, and four with midwives. Women were categorized as urban or rural, rich or poor, and according to rice field ownership. The women reported that before the crisis they bought more foods and cooked more meals and snacks. During the crisis, cooking methods became simpler and cooking tasty foods was more important than cooking nutritious foods. This involved using plenty of spices and cooking oil, but reducing the use of expensive nutritious foods. The herbal drink jamu was drunk by 15% of pregnant women; its consumption was lower during than before the economic crisis. Twenty-six percent of the women avoided certain foods due to food taboos, and most of these women avoided beneficial foods; this phenomenon decreased during the crisis among the rich and the rural, poor, landless women. In spite of increased prices for rice, women did not decrease their rice consumption during the crisis because rice was believed to have the highest value for survival, to provide strength during pregnancy and delivery, and to be easier to store and cook. Finally, children and husbands had highest priority in being served food, and women were the last to eat.
15848406	Batch experiments were carried out for the sorption of methylene blue onto rice husk particles. The operating variables studied were initial solution pH, initial dye concentration, adsorbent concentration, and contact time. Equilibrium data were fitted to the Freundlich and Langmuir isotherm equations and the equilibrium data were found to be well represented by the Langmuir isotherm equation. The monolayer sorption capacity of rice husks for methylene blue sorption was found to be 40.5833 mg/g at room temperature (32 degrees C). The sorption was analyzed using pseudo-first-order and pseudo-second-order kinetic models and the sorption kinetics was found to follow a pseudo-second-order kinetic model. Also the applicability of pseudo second order in modeling the kinetic data was also discussed. The sorption process was found to be controlled by both surface and pore diffusion with surface diffusion at the earlier stages followed by pore diffusion at the later stages. The average external mass transfer coefficient and intraparticle diffusion coefficient was found to be 0.01133 min(-1) and 0.695358 mg/g min0.5. Analysis of sorption data using a Boyd plot confirms that external mass transfer is the rate limiting step in the sorption process. The effective diffusion coefficient, Di was calculated using the Boyd constant and was found to be 5.05 x 10(-04) cm2/s for an initial dye concentration of 50 mg/L. A single-stage batch-adsorber design of the adsorption of methylene blue onto rice husk has been studied based on the Langmuir isotherm equation.
15849298	We identified four genes for potential equilibrative nucleoside transporters (ENTs) from rice (Oryza sativa; designated OsENT1 through OsENT4). Growth analysis of budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) cells expressing OsENTs showed that OsENT2 transported adenosine and uridine with high affinity (adenosine, K(m) = 3.0 microm; uridine, K(m) = 0.7 microm). Purine or pyrimidine nucleosides and 2'-deoxynucleosides strongly inhibited adenosine transport via OsENT2, suggesting that OsENT2 possesses broad substrate specificity. OsENT2-mediated adenosine transport was resistant to the typical inhibitors of mammalian ENTs, nitrobenzylmercaptopurine ribonucleoside, dilazep, and dipyridamole. The transport activity was maximal at pH 5.0 and decreased slightly at lower as well as higher pH. In competition experiments with various cytokinins, adenosine transport by OsENT2 was inhibited by isopentenyladenine riboside (iPR). Direct measurements with radiolabeled cytokinins demonstrated that OsENT2 mediated uptake of iPR (K(m) = 32 microm) and trans-zeatin riboside (K(m) = 660 microm), suggesting that OsENT2 participates in iPR transport in planta. In mature plants, OsENT2 was predominantly expressed in roots. The OsENT2 promoter drove the expression of the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene in the scutellum during germination and in vascular tissues in germinated plants, suggesting a participation of OsENT2 in the retrieval of endosperm-derived nucleosides by the germinating embryo and in the long-distance transport of nucleosides in growing plants, respectively.
15849300	Organisms exhibit a diverse set of responses when exposed to low-phosphate conditions. Some of these responses are specific for phosphorus limitation, including responses that enable cells to efficiently scavenge phosphate from internal and external stores via the production of high-affinity phosphate transporters and the synthesis of intracellular and extracellular phosphatases. Other responses are general and occur under a number of different environmental stresses, helping coordinate cellular metabolism and cell division with the growth potential of the cell. In this article, we describe the isolation and characterization of a mutant of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, low-phosphate bleaching (lpb1), which dies more rapidly than wild-type cells during phosphorus limitation. The responses of this mutant to nitrogen limitation appear normal, although the strain is also somewhat more sensitive than wild-type cells to sulfur deprivation. Interestingly, depriving the cells of both nutrients simultaneously allows for sustained survival that is similar to that observed with wild-type cells. Furthermore, upon phosphorus deprivation, the lpb1 mutant, like wild-type cells, exhibits increased levels of mRNA encoding the PHOX alkaline phosphatase, the PTB2 phosphate transporter, and the regulatory element PSR1. The mutant strain is also able to synthesize the extracellular alkaline phosphatase activity upon phosphorus deprivation and the arylsulfatase upon sulfur deprivation, suggesting that the specific responses to phosphorus and sulfur deprivation are normal. The LPB1 gene was tagged by insertion of the ARG7 gene, which facilitated its isolation and characterization. This gene encodes a protein with strong similarity to expressed proteins in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and predicted proteins in Oryza sativa and Parachlamydia. A domain in the protein contains some similarity to the superfamily of nucleotide-diphospho-sugar transferases, and it is likely to be localized to the chloroplast or mitochondrion based on programs that predict subcellular localization. While the precise catalytic role and physiological function of the putative protein is not known, it may function in some aspect of polysaccharide metabolism and/or influence phosphorus metabolism (either structural or regulatory) in a way that is critical for allowing the cells to acclimate to nutrient limitation conditions.
15849305	Glycosylation is a posttranslational modification occurring in many secreted and membrane-associated proteins in eukaryotes. It plays important roles in both physiological and pathological processes. Most of these protein modifications depend on UDP-N-acetylglucosamine. In this study, a T-DNA insertional rice (Oryza sativa) mutant exhibiting a temperature-sensitive defect in root elongation was isolated. Genetic and molecular analysis indicated that the mutated phenotype was caused by loss of function of a gene encoding a glucosamine-6-P acetyltransferase (designated OsGNA1), which is involved in de novo UDP-N-acetylglucosamine biosynthesis. The aberrant root morphology of the gna1 mutant includes shortening of roots, disruption of microtubules, and shrinkage of cells in the root elongation zone. Our observations support the idea that protein glycosylation plays a key role in cell metabolism, microtubule stabilization, and cell shape in rice roots.
158494
15849417	A method for quantifying indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and its conjugates with the six amino acids, Ala, -Asp, -Ile, -Glu, -Phe and -Val, in rice (Oryza sativa) by using high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization and tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-MS/MS) is described. Samples from the rice plant or callus were treated with 80% acetone in water containing 2.5 mM diethyl dithiocarbamate. Each extract was partially purified in C18 cartridge column for solid-phase extraction (SPE) and subjected to HPLC-ESI-MS/MS without converting the product. The detection limit was 3.8 fmol for IAA, and 0.4-2.9 fmol for the IAA amino acid conjugates. The method was applied to the analysis of IAA and its conjugates in rice seedlings, dehulled rice and calli, using 20-100 mg tissue samples.
15850179	Mass balance analysis and water quality model development for paddy field were performed using field experimental data during 2001-2002. About half (47-62%) of the total outflow was lost by surface drainage, with the remainder (490-530 mm) occurring by evapotranspiration. Most of nutrient inflow and outflow were mediated by fertilization and plant uptake, respectively. Nutrient outflow by surface drainage runoff was substantial about 15%-29% for T-N and 6%-13% for T-P. However, the responses of yield and drainage outflow to fertilization were not significant in this study. A water quality model applicable to paddy fields was developed and it demonstrates good agreement with observed data. The nutrient concentration of ponded water was high by fertilization at early culture periods, so reducing surface drainage during fertilization period can reduce nutrient loading from paddy fields. Shallow irrigation, raising the weir height in diked rice fields, and minimizing forced surface drainage are suggested to reduce surface drainage outflow.
15850206	In the prediction of time-series concentrations of herbicides in river water with diffuse-pollution hydrological models, farming schedules (the dates of herbicide application and drainage of irrigation water from rice paddies) greatly affect the runoff behavior of the herbicides. For large catchments, obtaining precise data on farming schedules is impractical, and so the model input inevitably includes substantial uncertainty. This paper evaluates the effectiveness of using the Monte-Carlo method to generate sets of estimated farming schedules to use as input to a GIS-based basin-scale runoff model to predict the concentrations of paddy-farming herbicides in river water. The effects of using the Monte-Carlo method to compensate for uncertainty in the evaluated parameters for herbicide decomposition and sorption were also evaluated.
15852341	Proteins are essential to rice caryopsis development and quality formation. High temperature is an important environmental factor, which may decrease grain quality. In the present study rice caryopsis proteins were profiled by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and differentially expressed proteins were analyzed by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. Expressions of more than 400 polypeptide spots during caryopsis development, in response to temperature treatments or between varieties were monitored. Among them, more than 70 differentially expressed polypeptides were analyzed by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. We identified 54 proteins with known functions. Of these, 21 were involved with carbohydrate metabolism, 14 with protein synthesis and sorting, and 9 with stress responses. Waxy (Wx) proteins and glutelins were the most significant spots, which increased significantly during development. Allergen-like proteins, PPDK and NADH-SDH, also were expressed during development, implying their physiological roles in caryopsis. Expression of large isoforms of Wx proteins was correlated with the amylose content of rice caryopses. One protein with high GC content in its DNA sequence was correlated with the chalky trait of kernels. High temperature (35/30 degrees C) decreased the expression of Wx proteins, allergen-like proteins, and elongation factor 1beta, but increased the expression of small heat shock proteins (sHSP), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and prolamin. sHSP was positively correlated with the appearance of chalky kernels. During development, glutelins were phosphorylated and glycosylated, indicating that these molecules were post-translationally modified. Possible functions of the expression of candidate proteins on the grain quality are discussed.
15852922	The study showed that different ecological environment and cultivation system in various ecological regions of Zhejiang Province resulted in some different physiological characteristics of nitrogen nutrition and stress-resistance, especially in the aspect of NO3(-)-N and NH4+-N concentrations, between film-mulched and conventional flooded rice. Owing to the heat stress in Hangjiahu plain, the NO3(-)-N concentration of film-mulched rice decreased to some extent, but NH4+-N concentration increased markedly at tillering, jointing and booting stages, compared to conventional flooded rice. In Jinqu basin, the NO3(-)-N concentration of film-mulched rice at booting stage was higher, while the NH4+-N concentration in its roots was notably lower than those of conventional flooded rice, with NH4+-N concentration in its basal stems and leaves somewhat increased. Generally, the glutamine synthetase (GS) and nitrate reductase (NR) activities in film-mulched rice leaves were enhanced at booting stage, while malondiadehyde (MDA), soluble sugar (SS) and proline (Pro) concentrations had little changes. In conclusion, film-mulched cultivation was beneficial to the rice growth and its high yielding.
15852932	This paper studied the Cu and Zn status in soil and rice plant as well as the soil enzyme activities in the sewage irrigation area near a smeltery. The results showed that the soils near the smeltery were polluted. The soil total and extractable Cu contents at the distance of 100 m were 182.45 and 81.91 mg x kg(-1), respectively, 9.3 and 34 times higher than the control. The Cu concentration in different parts of rice was in order of root > leaf and stem > grain, while the Zn concentration was in order of leaf and stem > root > grain. Zn was more mobile than Cu which was likely to accumulate in rice root. It was considered that root could act as a barrier which retarded the upwards transport of Cu and protected the above ground parts of rice from toxication. The Cu contents of rice stem and leaf had a significant correlation with soil Cu contents in the sewage irrigation area. Among the three test enzymes, urease was the most sensitive one to Cu, and its activity had a significant correlation with soil Cu content. Therefore, it is feasible to use soil urease activity as an indicator of soil Cu pollution in sewage irrigation area near the smeltery.
15852942	Redundancy theory is an ecological theory developed in 1990s. This paper gave a brief introduction on the concept of redundancy, its hypothesis and redundancy degree, and briefly reviewed the research advances in redundancy theory and in the methodologies about species redundancy, layer redundancy, gene redundancy, and growth redundancy. A hypothesis of optimal growth redundancy degree (OGRD) was proposed, i. e., under certain cultivation and management conditions, there existed a growth redundancy degree corresponding to the highest crop yield, and a high yield would be obtained if OGRD could be achieved through the regulation of management practices. The hypothesis was tested by using the data from high-yielding rice cultivation cases.
15852946	The studies showed that under no-tillage plus inter-planting rice and wheat, the height of rice stubble remained on the field significantly affected light transmission rate, with an optimal height of 20-30 cm. No-tillage and straw-remaining decreased soil temperature at noon in sunny days, but slightly increased it in the morning and evening, led to a less diurnal difference of soil temperature. The average diurnal soil temperature under no-tillage was higher in cloudy but lower in sunny days. Under no-tillage and straw-remaining, both the bulk density and the penetration resistance of topsoil increased, but no apparent adverse effect of them was observed on wheat growth. Under no-tillage, soil water content was higher under drought condition, and soil permeability after irrigation was better, which was propitious to the wheat growth. Straw-remaining significantly inhibited weeds, but led to the decrease of basic seedlings and enhanced the damage of freezing. Under no-tillage plus inter-planting, the individuals of effective ears decreased, while the kilo-grain weight increased. The grain yield was slightly but not significantly low under no-tillage plus inter-planting.
15852957	Nitrogen (N) cycle is very important for forest ecosystem, and soil N mineralization rate is often used as the index of soil N availability and its losses. Using Close-Top incubation method, we measured the N mineralization rate in soils (0-15 cm) of monsoon evergreen broadleaf forest, seasonal rain forest, rubber plantation, heavily disturbed seasonal rain forest, Millettia laptobotrya secondary forest and upland rice field. The results showed that the net N mineralization rate and N nitrification rate were decreased in the sequence of heavily disturbed seasonal rain forest > Millettia laptobotrya secondary forest > seasonal rain forest > monsoon evergreen broadleaf forest > rubber plantation > upland rice field. Rubber plantation and upland rice field were the most seriously disturbed land use patterns. Their soil N storage and mineralization rate were very low and exhibited significant variations, compared with other land use patterns. Lower net N mineralization rate correlated with lower N storage, and also, with lower fungi numbers. The N mineralization rate in disturbed forest soil which had recovered for several years was similar to that in primary forest soil, but decreased significantly when the forests were converted to agricultural land.
15852959	Based on the newest emission scenarios of SO2 and greenhouse gases, i. e., the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Special Report on Emission Scenarios (SRES) A2 and B2 scenarios, and by using RCM (Regional Climate Model)-PRECIS and CERES-Rice model, this paper simulated the rice yield change in 2080 at 50 x 50 km scale. The results showed that there was a great range of yield change across whole China. The yield would increase along the Changjiang River and in South China, and decrease in North and Northeast China. Because of the direct effect of CO2 on rice growth, the SRES A2 scenario would be more positive to the increase of rice yield than B2. In 2080, the total rice yield in whole China would increase under A2 emission scenario, while decrease under B2 emission scenario.
15852960	The potential evapotranspiration (ET0) values from 1951 to 2002 for the lower reaches of Liaohe Plain, North China, were estimated by Penman-Monteith equation, and the annual change in ET0 was analyzed. By using non-weighting lysimeters at Shenyang Experimental Station of Ecology (CAS) in North China, the daily evapotranspiration of flooded rice (Oryza sativa L.) at the interval of 10-11 days was determined for eight seasons from 1993-2002 (except for 1997 and 1999). The results showed that the total evapotranspiration ranged from 581 mm to 695 mm during 1993 and 2002, averaged 634 mm. Both in dry and wet seasons, supplemental irrigation was essential in this region for the uneven distribution of rainfall and time. The average crop coefficient (Kc) for eight years from 1993 to 2002 during the whole growth period was 1.32, with a second-degree polynomial change for the values of Kc during different rice growth stages.
15852967	The gas exchange characteristics of peanut and early rice leaves were investigated in experimental plots under different soil water conditions over a long growth period. The results showed that at the branching stage of peanut, the stomatal conductance (Gs) and transpiration rate (Tr) decreased slightly under mild and moderate soil water stress, while the net photosynthetic rate (Pn) and leaf water use efficiency (WUE) increased. The Gs/Tr ratio also increased under mild water stress, but decreased under moderate water stress. At podding stage, the Gs, Tr, Gs/Tr ratio and Pn decreased, while WUE increased significantly under mild and moderate water stress. The peanut was suffered from water stress at its pod setting stage. At the grain filling stage of early rice, the Gs, Tr and Gs/Tr ratio fluctuated insignificantly under mild and moderate water stress, while Pn and WUE increased significantly, with an increase in grain yield under mild water stress. It's suggested that the combination of Gs and Gs/Tr ratio could be a reference index for crop water stress, namely, crops could be hazarded by water stress when Gs and Gs/Tr decreased synchronously.
15852969	In this paper, the effects of transgenes insertion on the outcross potentiality of rice varieties were assessed by pollen vigor and hybrid seed set. The in vitro pollen germination rates of five transgenic rice lines transformed respectively with bar, crylAb, BADH and Xa21 gene were investigated, and compared with their relative receptor rice varieties. The results showed that there existed a significant difference in in vitro pollen germination rates between receptor rice varieties, but no significant difference was found between transgenic rice varieties and their relative receptors. The in vitro pollen germination rate for transgenic rice varieties varied from 0.416 to 0.584, similar to that of their relative receptors (0.400-0.574). Investigation on the hybrid seed set of 26 hand-crosses showed that the inserted bar or crylAb gene had a significant effect on the hybrid seed set of receptors, while the effect of Xa21 gene was smaller. The hybrid seed set rate of non-transgenic rice in crosses with transgenic rice (pollen donor) was from 0.056 to 0.413, not different from that in crosses with their relative receptors (0.052-0.417). It's suggested that transgenes insertion had little effect on the outcross potentiality of rice varieties.
15852970	Screening and breeding low phosphorous (P) tolerant rice genotype is one of the effective alternatives to alleviate the scarcity of mineral P resource and to increase the utilization efficiency of P fertilizer. Selecting a simple and scientific screening index plays an important role in the screening and breeding program. In this study, a hydroponic culture experiment and a field trial were carried out to approach the screening index for low P tolerant rice genotypes. The results showed that among all the rice characters studied, total dry weight demonstrated a significant genotypic variation at both normal and low P supply (the CV was 21.73% and 19.54%, respectively). Relative total dry weight (low P supply/normal P supply) also demonstrated significant genotypic variation (CV was 19.60%), which was significantly correlated to relative root dry weight, relative plant height, relative total P uptake, relative shoot P accumulation, relative P utilization efficiency and relative P concentration (P < 0.01). Therefore, the relative total dry weight of rice would be an important evaluation or screening index for the low P tolerance ability of rice at its seedling stage. The relative total dry weight of rice in hydroponic culture system was not correlated to the relative grain yield (minus-P/plus-P) in field trial, which meant that it could not be used as an index to evaluate the low P tolerance ability of rice. The internal P utilization efficiency of rice grown in low P solution was significantly correlated to that of rice grown in P-deficient soil (r = 0.798 * *, n = 8). Therefore, screening rice genotypes by using internal P utilization efficiency of rice grown in low P solution at seedling stage as screening index and subsequently testing in field trial would probably be an effective alternative to screen rice genotype with high P utilization efficiency.
15853388	The human gene for CYP2B6, a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase that inactivates xenobiotic chemicals, was introduced into Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. At germination, R(1) seeds of transgenic rice plants expressing CYP2B6 (CYP2B6 rice) showed a high tolerance to 5 microM metolachlor, a preemergence herbicide that is degraded by CYP2B6. Thin-layer chromatography after culture with (14)C-labeled metolachlor revealed that the amounts of residual metolachlor decreased in plant tissues and the medium of CYP2B6 rice faster than those of untransformed Nipponbare. CYP2B6 rice plants were able to grow in the presence of 13 out of 17 herbicides: five chloroacetamides and mefenacet, pyributicarb, amiprofos-methyl, trifluralin, pendimethalin, norflurazon, and chlorotoluron. These herbicides differ in their modes of action and chemical structures. Transgenic rice expressing a xenobiotic-degrading human CYP2B6, which has broad substrate specificity, should be good not only for developing herbicide tolerant rice but also for reducing the environmental impact of agrochemicals.
15853958	Wheat is one of the main food allergens. It is among widely used cereals and there is an extensive cross-reaction between cereals. The aim of this study is to evaluate the extent to which cereals cross-react and to find the best substitute for wheat. Eighteen patients with definite diagnosis of type I hypersensitivity reactions to wheat enrolled in this study. Measurement of serum-specific IgE and skin prick test (SPT) for cereals flour (wheat, barley, oat, rye, rice and corn) and wheat bran was carried out. Also, open food challenge tests with available and conventional cereals in Iranian food culture (wheat, corn, rice and barley) were carried out. The SPTs were positive in 44.4% of patients for barley, 94.5% for wheat and 44-77% for other cereals. Positive serum-specific IgE was remarkable for wheat and barley and there was correlation between wheat and barley-specific IgE concentrations (r = 0.773 and p < 0.01). Corn serum-specific IgE was measured in 10 patients, which were positive in six of them. Of the patients, 55.5% had positive barley challenge tests, but all corn and rice challenge tests were negative. The best substitutes for wheat in wheat allergic patients are rice and corn. Regarding the correlation of wheat and barley serum-specific IgEs, there might be a high antigenic cross-reaction, therefore barley is not a good substitute for wheat and consuming barley needs a careful challenge test. Considering concordance of positive SPT to wheat flour and wheat bran, avoiding both of them is necessary in patients with wheat allergy.
15856160	To further our understanding of the genetic control of blast resistance in rice cultivar Gumei 2 and, consequently, to facilitate the utilization of this durably blast-resistant cultivar, we studied 304 recombinant inbred lines of indica rice cross Zhong 156/Gumei 2 and a linkage map comprising 181 markers. An analysis of segregation for resistance against five isolates of rice blast suggested that one gene cluster and three additional major genes that are independently inherited are responsible for the complete resistance of Gumei 2. The gene cluster was located to chromosome 6 and includes two genes mapped previously, Pi25(t), against Chinese rice blast isolate 92-183 (race ZC15) and Pi26(t) against Philippine rice blast isolate Ca89 (lineage 4), and a gene for resistance against Philippine rice blast isolate 92330-5 (lineage 17). Of the two genes conferring resistance against the Philippine isolates V86013 (lineage 15) and C923-39 (lineage 46), we identified one as Pi26(t) and mapped the other onto the distal end of chromosome 2 where Pib is located. We used three components of partial blast resistance, percentage diseased leaf area (DLA), lesion number and lesion size, all measured in the greenhouse, to measure the degree of susceptibility to isolates Ca89 and C923-39 and subsequently identified nine and eight quantitative trait loci (QTLs), respectively. Epistasis was determined to play an important role in partial resistance against Ca89. Using DLA measured on lines susceptible in a blast nursery, we detected six QTLs. While different QTLs were detected for partial resistance to Ca89 and C923-39, respectively, most were involved in the partial resistance in the field. Our results suggest that the blast resistance in Gumei 2 is controlled by multiple major genes and minor genes with epistatic effects.
15856348	Auxin regulates plant growth and development by altering the expression of diverse genes. Among these, the genes of Aux/IAA, SAUR, and GH3 classes have been extensively studied in dicots, but little information is available on monocots. We have identified 12 members of GH3 gene family in rice using sequences of full-length cDNA clones available from KOME and analysis of the whole genome sequence of rice. The genomic organization as well as chromosomal location of all the OsGH3 genes is reported. The rice GH3 proteins can be classified in two groups (groups I and II) on the basis of their phylogenetic relationship with Arabidopsis GH3 proteins. Based upon the sequences available in the database, not a single group III GH3 protein could be identified in rice. An extensive survey of EST sequences of other monocots led to the conclusion that although GH3 gene family is highly conserved in both dicots and monocots but the group III is conspicuous by its absence in monocots. The in silico analysis has been complemented with experimental data to quantify transcript levels of all GH3 gene family members. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction, the organ-specific expression of individual OsGH3 genes in light- and dark-grown seedlings/plants has been examined. The transcript abundance of nearly all OsGH3 genes is enhanced on auxin treatment, with the effect more pronounced on OsGH3-1, -2, and -4. The functional validation of these genes in transgenics or analysis of gene-specific insertional mutants will help in elucidating their precise role in auxin signal transduction.
15856349	In order to identify genes involved in abiotic stress responses in potato, seedlings were grown under controlled conditions and subjected to cold (4 degrees C), heat (35 degrees C), or salt (100 mM NaCl) stress for up to 27 h. Using an approximately 12,000 clone potato cDNA microarray, expression profiles were captured at three time points following initiation of the stress (3, 9, and 27 h) from two different tissues, roots and leaves. A total of 3,314 clones could be identified as significantly up- or down-regulated in response to at least one stress condition. The genes represented by these clones encode transcription factors, signal transduction factors, and heat-shock proteins which have been associated with abiotic stress responses in Arabidopsis and rice, suggesting similar response pathways function in potato. These stress-regulated clones could be separated into either stress-specific or shared-response clones, suggesting the existence of general response pathways as well as more stress-specific pathways. In addition, we identified expression profiles which are indicative for the type of stress applied to the plants.
15856553	Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), ultraviolet spectroscopy (UV), and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) were used to study the chemical composition of Dissolved Organic Matter (DOM) derived from rice straw in the hydrolysis process with a dilute complex acid solution. The results obtained are as follows. FTIR spectra could indicate the changes of DOM during the hydrolysis process of rice straw. With the progress of rice straw hydrolysis, methyl, methylene, aromatic compounds and carbohydrates decreased, most of aliphatic compounds were oxidized to CO2 and H2O, and others were turned into carbonates. Most of the organic silicon was hydrolyzed into inorganic silicon. The proteins, amino acids and other nitrogen were hydrolyzed to NH4+. All the recalcitrant fractions of rice straw, such as hemi-cellulose, cellulose and silicon sharply decreased during the process of chemical treatment. The results obtained in this paper proposed that the changes of DOM of rice straw in the hydrolysis could be an indication in the changes of chemical composition of rice straw during the hydrolyzation, and FTIR, UV and NMR were good methods to study the changes in the structure of organic compounds.
15857838	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a highly Al-resistant species among small grain crops, but the mechanism responsible for the high Al resistance has not been elucidated. In this study, rice mutants sensitive to Al were isolated from M(3) lines derived from an Al-resistant cultivar, Koshihikari, irradiated with gamma-rays. Relative root elongation was used as a parameter for evaluating Al resistance. After initial screening plus two rounds of confirmatory testing, a mutant (als1) was isolated from a total of 560 lines. This mutant showed a phenotype similar to the wild-type plant in the absence of Al. However, in the presence of 10 microM Al, root elongation was inhibited 70% in the mutant, but only 8% in the wild-type plant. The mutant also showed poorer root growth in acid soil. The Al content of root apices (0-1 cm) was much lower in the wild-type plant. The sensitivity to other metals including Cd and La did not differ between the mutant and the wild-type plants. A small amount of citrate was secreted from the roots of the mutant in response to Al stress, but there was no difference from that secreted by the wild-type plant. Genetic analysis of F(2) populations between als1 and wild-type plants showed that the Al-resistant seedlings and Al-sensitive seedlings segregated at a 3 : 1 ratio, indicating that the high sensitivity to Al in als1 is controlled by a single recessive gene. The gene was mapped to the long arm of chromosome 6, flanked by InDel markers MaOs0619 and MaOs0615.
15858369	Water immersion has been used as a simulator of microgravity for analyzing gravity responses in semiaquatic plants such as rice. To examine whether or not water immersion for a short experimental period is a useful microgravity simulator even in terrestrial plants, we analyzed effects of water immersion on the cell wall rigidity and metabolisms of its constituents in azuki bean epicotyls. The cell wall rigidity of epicotyls grown underwater was significantly lower than that in the control. Water immersion also caused a decrease in molecular mass of xyloglucans as well as the thinning of the cell wall. Such changes in the mechanical and chemical properties of the cell wall underwater were similar to those observed in microgravity conditions in space. These results suggest that water immersion for a short period is a useful system for analyzing gravity resistance responses even in terrestrial plants.
15858513	A 14-month-old girl and a 7-month-old boy each presented with a diffuse dermatitis, whole body edema, and hypoalbuminemia. The diets of both infants consisted almost entirely of Rice Dream, a rice-based, protein-poor beverage. Both infants were diagnosed with kwashiorkor, which resolved with protein supplementation. Clues from the physical examination, a diet history, appropriate laboratory examinations, and an index of suspicion are crucial in promptly diagnosing and treating infants with kwashiorkor. Manufacturers of rice beverages should appropriately warn parents about the dangers of using their products as infant nourishment.
15859086	With the development of transgenic crops, regulations to label the genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and their derived products have been issued in many countries. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods are thought to be reliable and useful techniques for qualitative and quantitative detection of GMOs. These methods are generally needed to amplify the transgene and compare the amplified results with that of a corresponding reference gene to get the reliable results. Specific primers were developed for the rapeseed (Brassica napus), high-mobility-group protein I/Y(HMG-I/Y) single-copy gene and PCR cycling conditions suitable for the use of this sequence as an endogenous reference gene in both qualitative and quantitative PCR assays. Both methods were assayed with 15 different rapeseed varieties, and identical amplified products were obtained with all of them. No amplification was observed when templates were the DNA samples from the other species of Brassica genus or other species, such as broccoli, stem mustard, cauliflower, Chinese cabbage, cabbage, sprouts, Arabidopsis thaliana, carrot, tobacco, soybean, mung bean, tomato, pepper, eggplant, plum, wheat, maize, barley, rice, lupine, and sunflower. This system was specific for rapeseed. Limits of detection and quantitation in qualitative and quantitative PCR systems were about 13 pg DNA (about 10 haploid genomes) and about 1.3 pg DNA (about 1 haploid genome), respectively. To further test the feasibility of this HMG-I/Y gene as an endogenous reference gene, samples containing transgenic rapeseed GT73 with the inserted glyphosate oxidoreductase (GOX) gene were quantitated. These demonstrated that the endogenous PCR detection systems were applicable to the qualitative and quantitative detection of transgenic rapeseed.
15859094	A comprehensive method for simultaneous determination of methylmercury (MeHg) and ethylmercury (EtHg) in rice by capillary gas chromatography (GC) coupled on-line with atomic fluorescence spectrometry was developed. The experimental conditions, including the pyrolyzer temperature and flow rates of the make-up gas and sheath gas, were optimized in detail. The absolute detection limits (3sigma) were 0.005 ng as Hg for both MeHg and EtHg. The relative standard deviation values (n=5) for 10 ng Hg/mL of MeHg and EtHg were 2.5 and 1.3%, respectively. The method was evaluated by analyzing 2 certified reference materials (DORM-2 and GBW08508), and the determined values of MeHg and total mercury concentrations were in good agreement with the certified values. In addition, the recoveries of MeHg and EtHg spiked into a rice sample collected from Jiangsu province in China were 86 and 77%, respectively. The proposed method was applied to analysis of MeHg and EtHg in 25 rice samples cultivated in 15 provinces of China. In all samples, MeHg was detectable and no EtHg was found. The MeHg contents in rice samples ranged from 1.9 to 10.5 ng/g, accounting for 7-44% of the total mercury measured.
15859433	In order to probe into the biological effects of mercury in typical mercury contaminated area and try to apply the expression of immediately early gene c-fos in brain to early predict the neurotoxicity of mercury in typical polluted areas, the expression of c-FOS protein in rat hippocampus is observed using immunocytochemical methods. The results show the mercury pollutes rice induced significantly the expression of c-FOS protein in hippccampus;the antagonisis between selenium and mercury on the exposure process. It is suggested that c-fos can be used as an effective index of detecting and assessing neurotoxicology of mercury polluted areas.
15859434	Rice, wheat and rape seeds were treated with simulated acid rain at pH 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0 and 5.0 levels for 7 days in order to understand the effects of acid rain on seed germination of various acid-fast plant. The germination test showed that seed germination was absolutely inhibited at pH 2.0 for three species. Rice and wheat seeds germinated abnormally at pH 2.5. WhenpH values above 3.0, percentage germination, germination energy, germination index, vigor index of rice, wheat and rape seeds increased in relation with decreased acidity levels. In contrast, the percentage of abnormal germination of rice and wheat decreased. The experiment data about physiological aspect demonstrated that water absorption rate, respiratory rate and storage reserve transformation rate of rice, wheat and rape seeds also increased with increased pH values. The storage loss of rice and wheat increased with increased pH values but that of rape decreased. Inhibition index of shoot and root length of three kinds of seeds decreased in relation with increased pH values. The amplitude difference of index of rice was lower than that of wheat, and wheat was lower than that of rape. The experiment data showed that rice had stronger fastness than wheat and rape, wheat had stronger fastness than rape under acid rain stress.
15859517	Phenolic acids are secondary metabolic organic compounds produced by plants and often are mentioned as allelochemicals. This study was conducted to determine the genetic basis controlling the ferulic acid content of rice straw in a recombinant inbred (RI) population derived from a cross between a japonica variety, Asominori, with a higher content of ferulic acid, and an indica variety, IR24, with a lower content, using 289 RFLP markers. Continuous distributions and transgressive segregations of ferulic acid content were observed in the RI population, which showed that ferulic acid content in rice straw was quantitatively inherited. Single marker analysis and composite interval mapping identified three quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for ferulic acid content with LOD values of 2.03 (chromosome 3), 3.16 (chromosome 6), and 3.06 (chromosome 7); all three had increased additive effects (13.5, 18.3, and 18.1 microg g(-1)) from the Asominori parent and accounted for 5.5, 16.9, and 12.8% of total phenotypic variation, respectively. This is the first report on the identification of QTLs associated with ferulic acid and their chromosomal localization on the molecular map of rice. The tightly linked molecular markers that flank the QTLs might be useful in breeding and selection of varieties with higher phenolic acid content.
15860626	Although no country to date has released a major genetically modified (GM) food grain crop, China is on the threshold of commercializing GM rice. This paper studies two of the four GM varieties that are now in farm-level preproduction trials, the last step before commercialization. Farm surveys of randomly selected farm households that are cultivating the insect-resistant GM rice varieties, without the aid of experimental station technicians, demonstrate that when compared with households cultivating non-GM rice, small and poor farm households benefit from adopting GM rice by both higher crop yields and reduced use of pesticides, which also contribute to improved health.
15861241	Studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of a protein-enriched pea (Pisum sativum var. Bonneville) flour extract against the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae in its repellency, toxicity, effect on fecundity, stability and sensory properties. Milled rice admixed with pea flour extract at 1% concentration significantly repelled S. oryzae. Mortality of S. oryzae was found to increase and fecundity was markedly suppressed, in rice treated with 1% pea flour extract. The toxicity and reproductive effects of the pea protein-enriched rice were found to be stable for a period of 5 months. The sensory characteristics of stored rice when eaten were not affected by the treatment with pea flour extract. This study indicates that the protein-enriched flour extract obtained from the Bonneville pea may be feasible to protect stored milled rice from insect attack.
15861308	Centromere-specific histone H3 (CENH3) has been used to detect active centromeres, and to analyse the DNA sequences closely associated with the centromere, because they localize only in active centromeres and bind directly to the DNA. In maize and rice, the centromeric retrotransposons (CR) are shown to be closely associated with their own CENH3 whereas no such association was found in Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, this sort of association was investigated in sugarcane. Two expressed sequence tag groups encoding putative sugarcane CENH3 (SoCENH3) were found in a sugarcane-expressed sequence tag database. Their deduced amino acid sequences were similar to these of the CENH3s in rice and maize. An antibody against rice CENH3 seemed to crossreact with the SoCENH3s, and stained sugarcane centromeres. A set of immunoprecipitation tests was conducted with the antibody and chromatin from the sugarcane genome to reveal CENH3-associated DNA sequences in sugarcane. Centromeric tandem repeats (SCEN) and centromeric retrotransposons of sugarcane (CRS) were significantly precipitated with the antibody, meaning these repeats are directly interacting with CENH3 in sugarcane centromeres.
15862117	An improved method, called Alternative Spectral Rotation (ASR) measure, for predicting protein coding regions in rice DNA has been developed. The method is based on the Spectral Rotation (SR) measure proposed by Kotlar and Lavner, and its accuracy is higher than that of the SR measure and the Spectral Content (SC) measure proposed by Tiwari et al. In order to increase the identifying accuracy, we chose three different coding characters, namely the asymmetric, purine, and stop-codon variables as parameters, and an approving result was presented by the method of Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA).
15862840	This study presents the results of an environmental assessment of mercury (Hg) contamination in the Rwamagasa artisanal gold mining area, northwest Tanzania, and the potential downstream dispersion along the River Malagarasi to Lake Tanganyika. At the time of sampling, generally low concentrations of Hg (<0.05 mg/kg) occurred in most cultivated soils although higher Hg (0.05-9.2 mg/kg) was recorded in urban soils and vegetable plot soils where these are impacted by Hg-contaminated water and sediment derived from mineral processing activities. Hg in vegetable and grain samples is mostly below the detection limit of 0.004 mg/kg Hg, apart from 0.007 and 0.092 mg/kg Hg in two yam samples and 0.011 to 0.013 mg/kg Hg in three rice samples. The standardized (i.e., standardized to 10 cm length) Hg concentrations in Clarias spp. increase from about 0.01 mg Hg/kg for the River Malagarasi delta to 0.07, 0.2, and 1.6 mg/kg, respectively, for the Rwamagasa 'background', moderately and most contaminated sites. For piscivorous (Lates, Brycinus, and Hydrocynus spp.), insectivorous (Barbus spp.), and planktivorous (Haplochromis spp.) fish species, the 10-cm standardized Hg concentrations increase from about 0.006 mg/kg for the River Malagarasi-Lake Tanganyika area to 0.5 and 3.5 mg/kg, respectively, for the Rwamagasa moderately and most contaminated sites. The low concentrations of Hg in fish from the Malagarasi River delta and Lake Tanganyika indicate that Hg contamination from the Rwamagasa area does not have a readily discernible impact on the biota of Lake Tanganyika. Many of the fish samples from Rwamagasa exceed guidelines for human consumption (0.5 mg/kg) as well as the WHO recommended limit for vulnerable groups (0.2 mg/kg). Tissue total Hg (THg) of all fish collected from the River Malagarasi-Lake Tanganyika subarea is well below these guidelines. Potential human exposure through consumption of 300 g/day of rice grown on Hg-contaminated soils is 5.5 microg/week. Consumption of 250 g Nile perch (Lates spp.), 500 g tilapia (Oreochromis spp.), and 250 g of catfish (Clarias spp.) each week would result in an intake of 65 microg Hg/week for people consuming only fish from the Mara and Mwanza regions of Lake Victoria and 116 microg Hg/week for people in the Rwamagasa area consuming tilapia and Nile perch from Lake Victoria and catfish from mining-impacted streams. This is lower than the Provisional Tolerable Weekly Intake (PTWI) of 300 microg for Hg in the diet set by the WHO and the FAO. Inadvertent ingestion of soil containing 9 mg Hg/kg at a rate of 80 mg/day would give an additional estimated weekly intake of 5 microg THg, whereas the persistent and purposeful consumption of soil (geophagia) at a rate of 26 g soil/day would produce an additional chemical exposure of 230 microg Hg/day.
15863518	The complete genome sequence of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) provides an unprecedented opportunity to understand the biology of this model cereal. An essential and necessary step in this effort is the determination of the coding information and expression patterns of each sequenced chromosome. Here, we report an analysis of the transcriptional activity of rice chromosome 4 using a tiling path microarray based on PCR-generated genomic DNA fragments. Six representative rice organ types were examined using this microarray to catalog the transcribed regions of rice chromosome 4 and to reveal organ- and developmental stage-specific transcription patterns. This analysis provided expression support for 82% of the gene models in the chromosome. Transcriptional activities in 1643 nonannotated regions were also detected. Comparison with cytologically defined chromatin features indicated that in juvenile-stage rice the euchromatic region is more actively transcribed than is the transposon-rich heterochromatic portion of the chromosome. Interestingly, increased transcription of transposon-related gene models in certain heterochromatic regions was observed in mature-stage rice organs and in suspension-cultured cells. These results suggest a close correlation between transcriptional activity and chromosome organization and the developmental regulation of transcription activity at the chromosome level.
15863519	The phloem macromolecular transport system plays a pivotal role in plant growth and development. However, little information is available regarding whether the long-distance trafficking of macromolecules is a controlled process or passive movement. Here, we demonstrate the destination-selective long-distance trafficking of phloem proteins. Direct introduction, into rice (Oryza sativa), of phloem proteins from pumpkin (Cucurbita maxima) was used to screen for the capacity of specific proteins to move long distance in rice sieve tubes. In our system, shoot-ward translocation appeared to be passively carried by bulk flow. By contrast, root-ward movement of the phloem RNA binding proteins 16-kD C. maxima phloem protein 1 (CmPP16-1) and CmPP16-2 was selectively controlled. When CmPP16 proteins were purified, the root-ward movement of CmPP16-1 became inefficient, suggesting the presence of pumpkin phloem factors that are responsible for determining protein destination. Gel-filtration chromatography and immunoprecipitation showed that CmPP16-1 formed a complex with other phloem sap proteins. These interacting proteins positively regulated the root-ward movement of CmPP16-1. The same proteins interacted with CmPP16-2 as well and did not positively regulate its root-ward movement. Our data demonstrate that, in addition to passive bulk flow transport, a destination-selective process is involved in long-distance movement control, and the selective movement is regulated by protein-protein interaction in the phloem sap.
15863611	The maize Hm1 gene encoding the NADPH-dependent HC-toxin reductase is capable of detoxifying HC-toxin of fungus Cochliobolus carbonum. Here, we conducted the metabolic and biochemical analysis in transgenic rice plants overexpressing an HC-toxin reductase-like gene in rice (YK1 gene). Methods employing NADPH oxidation and capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry analysis confirmed that YK1 possessed dihydroflavonol-4-reductase activity in vitro and in vivo. The overexpression of YK1 in both suspension-cultured cells and rice plants increased NAD(H) and NADP(H) levels by causing an increase in NAD synthetase and NAD kinase activities. Activity changes in enzymes that require NAD(P) as coenzymes were also noted in rice cells ectopically expressing YK1, where the cell death caused by hydrogen peroxide and bacterial disease was down-regulated. Thus, a strategy was proposed that the combination of dihydroflavonol-4-reductase activity and the elevated level of NAD(P)H pool may confer the prevention of induced cell death in planta.
15864332	The milk protein, lactoferrin, is known to have antibacterial, antiviral, and antifungal activities. To explore the possibility of conferring disease resistance in plants by expressing this protein, the gene for the full-length human lactoferrin (HLF), as well as the N-lobe, the N-terminal half molecule (HLFN), was introduced into rice plants and expressed constitutively under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promotor. Western blot analysis of leaves from HLF-transgenic rice plants showed an 80 kDa-band, which was about 1-2 kDa less than human milk lactoferrin. HLFN was expressed as a 45-kDa protein and retained its heparin-binding property. Deglycosylation experiments suggested that both proteins produced by the plants had plant-type oligosaccharide chains. The transgenic rice plants were assessed for resistance against disease-causing bacteria, virus, and fungi. Of the pathogens tested, significant resistance against Burkholderia (Pseudomonas) plantarii, the causative agent of bacterial seedling blight disease, was observed in the transgenic plants expressing HLF or HLFN.
15865044	Meeting the challenge of routine gene targeting (GT) in higher plants is of crucial interest to researchers and plant breeders who are currently in need of a powerful tool to specifically modify a given locus in a genome. Higher plants have long been considered the last lineage resistant to targeting technology. However, a recent report described an efficient method of T-DNA-mediated targeted disruption of a non-selectable locus in rice [Terada et al., Nat Biotechnol 20: 1030-1034 (2002)]. Though this study was an obvious breakthrough, further improvement of GT frequencies may derive from a better understanding of the natural mechanisms that control homologous recombination (HR) processes. In this review, we will focus on what is known about HR and the factors which may hamper the development of routine GT by HR in higher plants. We will also present the current strategies envisaged to overcome these limitations, such as expression of recombination proteins and refinements in the design of the transformation vector.
15867426	Nuclear genomes are exposed to a continuous influx of DNA from mitochondria and plastids. We have characterized the structure of approximately 750 kb of organelle DNA, distributed among 13 loci, in the nuclear genomes of Arabidopsis and rice. These segments are large and migrated to the nucleus quite recently, allowing us to reconstruct their evolution. Two general types of nuclear insertions coexist; one is characterized by long sequence stretches that are colinear with organelle DNA, the other type consists of mosaics of organelle DNA, often derived from both plastids and mitochondria. The levels of sequence divergence of the two types exclude their common descent, implying that at least two independent modes of DNA transfer from organelle to nucleus operate. The post-integration fate of organelle DNA is characterized by a predominance of transition mutations, associated with the gradual amelioration of the integrated sequence to the nucleotide composition of the host chromosome. Deletion of organelle DNA at these loci is essentially balanced by insertions of nonorganelle DNA. Deletions are associated with the removal of DNA between perfect repeats, indicating that they originate by replication slippage.
15868217	Potassium pyroantimonate precipitation was used to locate loosely bound calcium in rice (Oryza sativa L.) lodicules before and after anthesis, and flowering of panicles was accelerated by treatment with methyl jasmonate. From 1 day to 4 h before anthesis, the number of calcium precipitates in the cell walls and vacuole membranes decreased gradually, whereas they increased remarkably in the cytoplasm and nucleolus. At the beginning of anthesis, the number of calcium granules in lodicules reduced sharply, but there was a large accumulation of flocculent precipitates in the vacuoles. After anthesis, the flocculent precipitates decreased in number until they disappeared, whereas the granular precipitates started to accumulate once again. The rice florets treated with 2 mM methyl jasmonate were induced to open within 10-30 min and they then closed 0.5-1 h later. The nucleolus, cytoplasm, and vacuole membrane of the lodicule cells contained many calcium granules during flowering, although the cell walls lacked calcium. At 1 h after treatment, the number of calcium granules had decreased, while flocculent precipitates were regularly observed in the nondegenerated cells. At 6 h after treatment, calcium grains started to reappear in the cell walls. These changes in calcium precipitates before and after anthesis indicate that the opening and closing of florets correlates with the calcium level in lodicule cells. In addition, excised panicles, with florets judged to be nearing anthesis, were soaked in 2-200 mM EGTA solution for 2 min after treatment with 2 mM methyl jasmonate. The results indicate that EGTA had an antagonistic effect on the methyl jasmonate-induced floret opening in rice.
15868920	We have recently reported that phagocytosis of killed Saccharomyces cerevisiae, baker's yeast, induced apoptosis in human breast cancer cell lines MCF-7, ZR-75-1 and HCC70. In this study we have evaluated the effect of treatment with MGN-3, a modified arabinoxylan from rice bran, on phagocytosis and yeast-induced apoptosis in breast cancer cells. Cancer cells were cultured with yeast at a ratio of 1:10 in the absence or presence of MGN-3, and the percentages of phagocytic and apoptotic cancer cells were examined by flow cytometry and by cytospin preparations. Cancer cells treated with MGN-3 exhibited increased percentages of attachment (200%) and uptake of yeast (313%) by MCF-7 cells at 0.5 hr, as compared with cells without MGN-3. In addition, treatment with MGN-3 resulted in a 2 fold increase in the percentage of apoptotic MCF-7 cells, 2.5 fold for ZR-75 cells and 1.8 fold for HCC70 cells. MGN-3 effect was dose-dependent and associated with increased activation of caspases 8 and 9 in MCF-7 cells, and caspases 8, 9 and 3 in HCC70 cells. This data demonstrates that MGN-3 accelerates phagocytosis-induced apoptosis of cancer cells, which may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of breast cancer.
15874886	This study was carried out to define the major clinical presentation and laboratory findings of leptospirosis in Guilan province, an agricultural and fishery area in the Caspian littoral. Cases with a clinically compatible illness and positive serology (immunofluorescence antibody method (IFA)), were included. Clinical information and other lab data were collected. Seventy-four cases, with a mean age of 47.3 +/- 12.4 years and of whom 52 (70.3%) were male, were recruited. All had had contact with stagnant water of a farm within the week prior to their admission. Fever and chills were the most frequent chief complaint in 47 (63.5%). Fever, headache, and myalgia were reported by 73 (98.6%), 69 (93.2%), and 57 (77%) cases, respectively. Increased serum creatinine was detected in 18 (27.3%). Only in 27% of patients did CPK rise to 3-fold or more above the Normal Upper Limit, and in 43% of patients its level was within the normal range. Thrombocytopenia was noticed in 87.3%, and 15.5% of cases had platelets less than 20,000/mm(3). Anemia was detected in 78.4%. ESR was more than 100 mm/hour in 28.3%. History of fever, headache, and myalgia in patients who have been in contact with the stagnant water of rice fields should raise the possibility of leptospirosis in Guilan province.
15874979
15875723	Expression of rbcS genes encoding small subunit of rubisco, most abundant protein in green tissue, is regulated by at least three parameters--tissue type, light conditions and stage of development. One of the green tissue-specific promoters of rbcS gene family was isolated from pigeonpea by PCR. Expression of uidA gene encoding beta-glucuronidase in the transgenic tobacco plants under the control of pigeonpea rbcS promoter, clearly showed that this promoter was as strong as pea rbcS3A promoter characterized earlier. Study of the sequence similarity with pea rbcS3A promoter, especially the region (boxes I and III) that is required for rbcS3A expression, showed more than 50% divergence. In contrast, pigeonpea promoter sequence isolated in the present study was more similar to that of spinach and rice rbcS promoters.
15876509	A stability-indicating reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) with photodiode array (PDA) detection method was developed and validated for the assay of monacolin series compounds including monacolin K, L, J and their hydroxyl acid forms as well as dehydroxymonacolin K simultaneously in Monascus purpureus-fermented rice, red yeast rice. Well-resolved peaks of seven main compounds of monacolin family were profiled on a C(18) reverse-phase column using a linear gradient of 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid and acetonitrile as the mobile phase, and the detection wavelength was set at 237nm. The method was validated with respect to specificity, chromatographic parameters, linearity, precision, accuracy, limits of detection and quantitation. The stability stress testing for fermented red yeast rice powder was carried out to show the effects of high temperature (80 degrees C), high humidity at room temperature (92.5% RH, 25 degrees C), high humidity at high temperature (75% RH, 60 degrees C) and light (sunlight) in solid state. The results exhibited that monacolins decreased significantly under the conditions of high humidity at high temperature (75% RH, 60 degrees C) and sunlight. Monacolin K and its hydroxyl acid form would be dehydrolyzed and turned to dehydromonacolin K at high temperature (80 degrees C) while the monacolin K, J and L would be transformed into their corresponding hydroxyl acid forms under the condition of high humidity (92.5% RH, 25 degrees C). The indication is that monacolins in red yeast rice powder are light-sensitive and thermal-sensitive. Therefore, it has been suggested that the preparations containing monacolins be stored in the place of cool and lightproof. The proposed degradation pathways were discussed as well. The multi-components assay for stability of botanical products could provide much more information than the normal marker-orientation method.
15876584	A detailed comparison was made of codon usage of chloroplast genes with their host (nuclear) genes in the four angiosperm species Oryza sativa, Zea mays, Triticum aestivum and Arabidopsis thaliana. The average GC content of the entire genes, and at the three codon positions individually, was higher in nuclear than in chloroplast genes, suggesting different genomic organization and mutation pressures in nuclear and chloroplast genes. The results of Nc-plots and neutrality plots suggested that nucleotide compositional constraint had a large contribution to codon usage bias of nuclear genes in O. sativa, Z. mays, and T. aestivum, whereas natural selection was likely to be playing a large role in codon usage bias in chloroplast genomes. Correspondence analysis and chi-test showed that regardless of the genomic environment (species) of the host, the codon usage pattern of chloroplast genes differed from nuclear genes of their host species by their AU-richness. All the chloroplast genomes have predominantly A- and/or U-ending codons, whereas nuclear genomes have G-, C- or U-ending codons as their optimal codons. These findings suggest that the chloroplast genome might display particular characteristics of codon usage that are different from its host nuclear genome. However, one feature common to both chloroplast and nuclear genomes in this study was that pyrimidines were found more frequently than purines at the synonymous codon position of optimal codons.
15878762	Japanese encephalitis (JE) is a disease caused by an arbovirus that is spread by marsh birds, amplified by pigs, and mainly transmitted by the bite of infected Culex tritaeniorhynchus mosquitoes. The estimated annual incidence and mortality rates are 30,000--50,000 and 10,000, respectively, and the estimated global burden of JE in 2002 was 709,000 disability-adjusted life years lost. Here, we discuss the contextual determinants of JE, and systematically examine studies assessing the relationship between irrigated rice agriculture and clinical parameters of JE. Estimates of the sizes of the rural population and population in irrigated areas are presented, and trends of the rural population, the rice-irrigated area, and the rice production are analyzed from 1963 to 2003. We find that approximately 1.9 billion people currently live in rural JE-prone areas of the world. Among them 220 million people live in proximity to rice-irrigation schemes. In 2003, the total rice harvested area of all JE-endemic countries (excluding the Russian Federation and Australia) was 1,345,000 km(2). This is an increase of 22% over the past 40 years. Meanwhile, the total rice production in these countries has risen from 226 millions of tonnes to 529 millions of tonnes (+134%). Finally, we evaluate the effect of different vector control interventions in rice fields, including environmental measures (i.e. alternate wet and dry irrigation (AWDI)), and biological control approaches (i.e. bacteria, nematodes, invertebrate predators, larvivorous fish, fungi and other natural products). We conclude that in JE-endemic rural settings, where vaccination rates are often low, an integrated vector management approach with AWDI and the use of larvivorous fish as its main components can reduce vector populations, and hence has the potential to reduce the transmission level and the burden of JE.
15879261	Five strains of free-living diazotrophs isolated from rice were characterized by using a polyphasic approach. The strains were found to be very closely related, with 99-100 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity and DNA-DNA hybridization values greater than 70 %, suggesting that they represent a single species. When compared with other recognized species, they showed not more than 93 and 89 % similarity for the 16S rRNA and nifH gene sequences, respectively. Phylogenetic distances showed that these isolates were distinct from other taxa within the alpha-Proteobacteria. Chemotaxonomic characteristics of these isolates included the DNA G + C content (62.1-63.1 mol%), the major quinone system (Q-10), predominant fatty acids (18 : 1omega7c, cyclo 19 : 0omega8c and 16 : 0) and major hydroxy fatty acids (14 : 0 3-OH, 18 : 0 3-OH and 16 : 0 3-OH). Based on phylogenetic and phenotypic analyses, these isolates are considered to represent a novel genus and species, for which the name Pleomorphomonas oryzae gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is F-7(T) (=IAM 15079(T) = ATCC BAA-940(T) = DSM 16300(T)).
15879448	Auxin influx carriers are involved in auxin transport and plant development. Here we show that the mutant of rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica cv IR8) arm2 is defective in the uptake of the naturally occurring auxin indole-3-butyric acid (IBA). The acropetal and basipetal transport of IBA is reduced in arm2 roots compared with wild type. In contrast, arm2 roots are normal with respect to uptake and transport of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Furthermore, arm2 roots are resistant to IBA but respond normally to IAA. The mutant analysis of arm2 indicates the presence of an influx carrier system for IBA in rice roots.
15879704	A full-length 1.1 kb cDNA, designated Oryza sativa Dehydrin 1 (OsDhn1), was isolated from the seed coat of rice. The deduced protein is hydrophilic and has three K-type and one S-type motifs (SK3-type), indicating that OsDhn1 belongs to the acidic dehydrin family, which includes wheat WCOR410 and Arabidopsis COR47. Expression of OsDhn1 was strongly induced by low temperature as well as by drought. Induction of OsDhn1 by cold stress was clearcut in the roots of seedlings and the epidermis of palea and lemma. OsDhn1 was also up-regulated in UBI::CBF1/DREB1b transgenic plants indicating that it is regulated by the CBF/DREB stress signaling pathway.
15879717	A cDNA encoding farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FPS; EC2.5.1.1/EC2.5.1.10) was isolated from Centella asiacita (L.) Urban, using degenerate primers based on two highly conserved domains. A full-length cDNA clone was subsequently isolated by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) PCR. The sequence of the CaFPS (C. asiatica farnesyl diphosphate synthase) cDNA contains an open reading frame of 1029 nucleotides encoding 343 amino acids with a molecular mass of 39.6 kDa. The deduced CaFPS amino acid sequence exhibits 84, 79, and 72%, identity to the FPSs of Artemisia annua, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Oryza sativa, respectively. Southern blot analysis suggested that the C. asiatica genome contains only one FPS gene. An artificially expressed soluble form of the CaFPS was identified by SDS-PAGE. It had high specific activity and produced farnesyl diphosphate as the major isoprenoid.
15881027	On commercial pig production farms in South East (SE) Asia, the liquid effluent is often discharged into rivers. The discharge is a hazard to the environment and to the health of people using water from the river either for consumption or for irrigation. Therefore, a simple percolation biofilter for treatment of the liquid effluent was developed. Pig slurry was treated in test-biofilters packed with different biomass for the purpose of selecting the most efficient material, thereafter the efficiency of the biofilter was examined at farm scale with demo biofilters using the most efficient material. The effect of using "Effective Microorganisms" (EM) added to slurry that was treated with biofilter material mixed with Glenor KR+ was examined. Slurry treatment in the test-biofilters indicated that rice straw was better than coconut husks, wood shavings, rattan strips and oil palm fronds in reducing BOD. Addition of EM and Glenor KR+ to slurry and biofilter material, respectively, had no effect on the temperature of the biofilter material or on the concentrations of organic and inorganic components of the treated slurry. The BOD of slurry treated in test biofilters is reduced to between 80 and 637 mg O2 I(-1) and in the demo biofilter to between 3094 and 3376 mg O2 l(-1). The concentration of BOD in the effluent is related to the BOD in the slurry being treated and the BOD concentration in slurry treated in test biofilters was lower than BOD of slurry treated in demo biofilters. The demo biofilter can reduce BOD to between 52 an 56% of the original value, and TSS, COD (chemical oxygen demand) and ammonium (NH4+) to 41-55% of the original slurry. The treated effluent could not meet the standards for discharge to rivers. The composted biofilter material has a high content of nitrogen and phosphorus; consequently, the fertilizer value of the compost is high. The investments costs were 123 US dollar per SPP which has to be reduced if this method should be a treatment option in practise.
15881193	The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of food intake and estimated nutrient intake in the JACC study cohort. The subjects were 46,465 men and 64,327 women aged 40-79 years who responded to the self-administered food frequency questionnaire. We calculated the dietary intake of major nutrients by multiplying the frequency of consumption of each food with each portion size, estimated from a validation study. Women reported to more likely consume vegetables, seaweed, fruits, sweets, oolong-tea, western-style-breakfast, and less likely to consume rice and miso-soup than men. Women reported less preference of salty foods and fatty foods than men. Compared with men, women had higher mean intakes of carotene and vitamin C, and lower intake of total energy, carbohydrate and sodium. The frequency of consumption of beef, chicken, dairy products, fresh fish, fish products, rice, and miso-soup increased with age in men, and that of vegetables, seaweed, beans, tofu, fruits, sweets, and green-tea increased with age in both sexes. Men aged 40-49 years had the lowest mean intake levels of crude fiber, calcium, iron, retinol, carotene, and vitamins A, C, and E. Women aged 40-49 years had the lowest mean intake levels of crude fiber, iron, and vitamins C. Women aged 70-79 years had the lowest mean intake levels of calcium, retinol, and vitamins A. Women had a more westernized dietary pattern than men. Elderly men had a mixture of unhealthy and healthy dietary patterns while elderly women generally had a healthier dietary pattern compared with younger persons.
15881252	Isophorone (ISP) is used widely as a solvent of natural and synthetic resins, wax, printing ink, pesticides and paints. In this study, the level of ISP in various foods (93 samples) was analyzed. ISP was collected from samples by steam distillation after the addition of an internal standard, deuterium-labeled ISP, then extracted with dichloromethane, cleaned up on a silica gel column, and determined by GC/MS. ISP was barely detected in fish, meat and vegetable samples, but it was detected in rice, wheat, beans and their processed products, miso, soy sauce and fermented soybeans (natto). The maximum level was 8.9 ng/g in miso. The packaging materials of the foods contained little ISP, and so the source of ISP in the foods could not be clarified.
15881829	Free-living nitrogen fixing bacteria were isolated from rhizosphere of seven different plant namely sesame, maize, wheat, soybean, lettuce, pepper and rice grown in Chungbuk Province, Korea. Five isolates with nitrogenase activity above 150nmol(-1) mg(-1) protein were identified based on, phenotypic and 16S rDNA sequences analysis. The strains were identified as Stenotrophomonas maltophilia (PM-1, PM-26), Bacillus fusiformis (PM-5, PM-24) and Pseudomonas fluorescens (PM-13), respectively. All the isolates produced indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), in the presence of tryptophan, ranging from 100.4 microg ml(-1) (PM-13) to 255 microg ml(-1) (PM-24). The isolate PM-24 (Bacillus fusiformis) exhibiting highest nitrogenase activity (3677.81 nmol h(-1) mg(-1) protein) and IAA production (255microg ml(-1)) has a promising potential for developing as a plant growth promoting rhizobacteria.
15883882	The purpose of this research was to search for evolutionarily conserved fungal sequences to test the hypothesis that fungi have a set of core genes that are not found in other organisms, as these genes may indicate what makes fungi different from other organisms. By comparing 6355 predicted or known yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) genes to the genomes of 13 other fungi using Standalone TBLASTN at an e-value <1E-5, a list of 3340 yeast genes was obtained with homologs present in at least 12 of 14 fungal genomes. By comparing these common fungal genes to complete genomes of animals (Fugu rubripes, Caenorhabditis elegans), plants (Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa), and bacteria (Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Xylella fastidiosa), a list of common fungal genes with homologs in these plants, animals, and bacteria was produced (938 genes), as well as a list of exclusively fungal genes without homologs in these other genomes (60 genes). To ensure that the 60 genes were exclusively fungal, these were compared using TBLASTN to the major sequence databases at GenBank: NR (nonredundant), EST (expressed sequence tags), GSS (genome survey sequences), and HTGS (unfinished high-throughput genome sequences). This resulted in 17 yeast genes with homologs in other fungal genomes, but without known homologs in other organisms. These 17 core, fungal genes were not found to differ from other yeast genes in GC content or codon usage patterns. More intensive study is required of these 17 genes and other common fungal genes to discover unique features of fungi compared to other organisms.
15884840	Herbicide antagonism is defined as the reduction of control of certain weeds as the result of applying mixtures of two or more herbicides. Cyhalofop-butyl, a graminicide used for postemergence grass weed control in rice, is antagonized by some rice herbicides when applied simultaneously. The result of this type of antagonism usually results in decreased control of grass weeds. Research has shown that herbicide antagonism between graminicides and other herbicides may be caused by different mechanisms as the result of activity of the tank-mix partner. Using HPLC, the objective of this experiment was to analyze the fate of cyhalofop-butyl in barnyardgrass tissue when applied alone and in combination with halosulfuron, propanil, or triclopyr. Results indicated that absorption of cyhalofop-butyl and hydrolysis to its phytotoxic metabolite, cyhalofop-acid, was rapid and that halosulfuron and triclopyr had no effect. Because of a likely interaction of propanil with an apoplastic esterase enzyme, increased levels of cyhalofop-butyl and cyhalofop-acid were detected in barnyardgrass tissue, indicating that cyhalofop-butyl metabolism was hindered by propanil.
15885406	A novel biosorbent rice polish has been successfully utilized for the removal of cadmium(II) from wastewater. The maximum removal of cadmium(II) was found to be 9.72 mg g(-1) at pH 8.6, initial Cd(II) concentration of 125 mg l(-1) and temperature of 20 degrees C. The effect of different parameters such as contact time, adsorbate concentration, pH of the medium and temperature were investigated. Dynamics of the sorption process were studied and the values of rate constant of adsorption, rate constant of intraparticle diffusion and mass transfer coefficient were calculated. Different thermodynamic parameters, viz., changes in standard free energy, enthalpy and entropy have also been evaluated and it has been found that the reaction was spontaneous and exothermic in nature. The applicability of Langmuir isotherm showed monolayer coverage of the adsorbate on the surface of adsorbents. A generalised empirical model was proposed for the kinetics at different initial concentrations. The data were subjected to multiple regression analysis and a model was developed to predict the removal of Cd(II) from wastewater.
15887031	The plant cystatins or phytocystatins comprise a family of specific inhibitors of cysteine proteinases. Such inhibitors are thought to be involved in the regulation of several endogenous processes and in defence against pests and pathogens. Extensive searches in the complete rice and Arabidopsis genomes and in barley EST collections have allowed us to predict the presence of twelve different cystatin genes in rice, seven in Arabidopsis, and at least seven in barley. Structural comparisons based on alignments of all the protein sequences using the CLUSTALW program and searches for conserved motifs using the MEME program have revealed broad conservation of the main motifs characteristic of the plant cystatins. Phylogenetic analyses based on their deduced amino acid sequences have allowed us to identify groups of orthologous cystatins, and to establish homologies and define examples of gene duplications mainly among the rice and barley cystatin genes. Moreover, the absence of a counterpart between the two monocots, as well as strong variations in the motifs that interact with the cysteine proteinases, may be related to a species-specific evolutionary process. This cystatin classification should facilitate the assignment of proteinase specificities and functions to other cystatins as new information is obtained.
15888674	We have developed a rice (Oryza sativa) genome annotation database (Osa1) that provides structural and functional annotation for this emerging model species. Using the sequence of O. sativa subsp. japonica cv Nipponbare from the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project, pseudomolecules, or virtual contigs, of the 12 rice chromosomes were constructed. Our most recent release, version 3, represents our third build of the pseudomolecules and is composed of 98% finished sequence. Genes were identified using a series of computational methods developed for Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) that were modified for use with the rice genome. In release 3 of our annotation, we identified 57,915 genes, of which 14,196 are related to transposable elements. Of these 43,719 non-transposable element-related genes, 18,545 (42.4%) were annotated with a putative function, 5,777 (13.2%) were annotated as encoding an expressed protein with no known function, and the remaining 19,397 (44.4%) were annotated as encoding a hypothetical protein. Multiple splice forms (5,873) were detected for 2,538 genes, resulting in a total of 61,250 gene models in the rice genome. We incorporated experimental evidence into 18,252 gene models to improve the quality of the structural annotation. A series of functional data types has been annotated for the rice genome that includes alignment with genetic markers, assignment of gene ontologies, identification of flanking sequence tags, alignment with homologs from related species, and syntenic mapping with other cereal species. All structural and functional annotation data are available through interactive search and display windows as well as through download of flat files. To integrate the data with other genome projects, the annotation data are available through a Distributed Annotation System and a Genome Browser. All data can be obtained through the project Web pages at http://rice.tigr.org.
15888677	The genome-wide protein sequences from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) spp. japonica were clustered into families using sequence similarity and domain-based clustering. The two fundamentally different methods resulted in separate cluster sets with complementary properties to compensate the limitations for accurate family analysis. Functional names for the identified families were assigned with an efficient computational approach that uses the description of the most common molecular function gene ontology node within each cluster. Subsequently, multiple alignments and phylogenetic trees were calculated for the assembled families. All clustering results and their underlying sequences were organized in the Web-accessible Genome Cluster Database (http://bioinfo.ucr.edu/projects/GCD) with rich interactive and user-friendly sequence family mining tools to facilitate the analysis of any given family of interest for the plant science community. An automated clustering pipeline ensures current information for future updates in the annotations of the two genomes and clustering improvements. The analysis allowed the first systematic identification of family and singlet proteins present in both organisms as well as those restricted to one of them. In addition, the established Web resources for mining these data provide a road map for future studies of the composition and structure of protein families between the two species.
15888682	The covalent modification of eukaryotic DNA by methylation of the 5' carbon of cytosine residues is frequently associated with transcriptional silencing. In mammals, a potential mechanism for transducing DNA methylation patterns into altered transcription levels occurs via binding of methyl-CpG-binding domain (MBD) proteins. Mammalian MBD-containing proteins bind specifically to methylated DNA and recruit chromatin-modifying complexes containing histone deacetylase activities. Sequence similarity searches reveal the presence of multiple proteins in plants containing a putative MBD. Outside of the MBD itself, there is no sequence relationship between plant and mammalian MBD proteins. The plant MBD proteins can be divided into eight classes based on sequence similarity and phylogenetic analyses of sequences obtained from two complete genomes (rice [Oryza sativa] and Arabidopsis [Arabidopsis thaliana]) and from maize (Zea mays). Two classes of MBD proteins are only represented in dicot species. The striking divergence of plant and animal MBD-containing proteins is in stark contrast to the amino acid conservation of DNA methyltransferases across plants, animals, and fungi. This observation suggests the possibility that while plants and mammals have retained similar mechanisms for the establishment and maintenance of DNA methylation patterns, they may have evolved distinct mechanisms for the interpretation of these patterns.
15888683	To better understand the molecular basis of the defense response against the rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea), a large-scale expressed sequence tag (EST) sequencing approach was used to identify genes involved in the early infection stages in rice (Oryza sativa). Six cDNA libraries were constructed using infected leaf tissues harvested from 6 conditions: resistant, partially resistant, and susceptible reactions at both 6 and 24 h after inoculation. Two additional libraries were constructed using uninoculated leaves and leaves from the lesion mimic mutant spl11. A total of 68,920 ESTs were generated from 8 libraries. Clustering and assembly analyses resulted in 13,570 unique sequences from 10,934 contigs and 2,636 singletons. Gene function classification showed that 42% of the ESTs were predicted to have putative gene function. Comparison of the pathogen-challenged libraries with the uninoculated control library revealed an increase in the percentage of genes in the functional categories of defense and signal transduction mechanisms and cell cycle control, cell division, and chromosome partitioning. In addition, hierarchical clustering analysis grouped the eight libraries based on their disease reactions. A total of 7,748 new and unique ESTs were identified from our collection compared with the KOME full-length cDNA collection. Interestingly, we found that rice ESTs are more closely related to sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) ESTs than to barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and maize (Zea mays) ESTs. The large cataloged collection of rice ESTs in this study provides a solid foundation for further characterization of the rice defense response and is a useful public genomic resource for rice functional genomics studies.
15888684	Many clone-based physical maps have been built with the FingerPrinted Contig (FPC) software, which is written in C and runs locally for fast and flexible analysis. If the maps were viewable only from FPC, they would not be as useful to the whole community since FPC must be installed on the user machine and the database downloaded. Hence, we have created a set of Web tools so users can easily view the FPC data and perform salient queries with standard browsers. This set includes the following four programs: WebFPC, a view of the contigs; WebChrom, the location of the contigs and genetic markers along the chromosome; WebBSS, locating user-supplied sequence on the map; and WebFCmp, comparing fingerprints. For additional FPC support, we have developed an FPC module for BioPerl and an FPC browser using the Generic Model Organism Project (GMOD) genome browser (GBrowse), where the FPC BioPerl module generates the data files for input into GBrowse. This provides an alternative to the WebChrom/WebFPC view. These tools are available to download along with documentation. The tools have been implemented for both the rice (Oryza sativa) and maize (Zea mays) FPC maps, which both contain the locations of clones, markers, genetic markers, and sequenced clone (along with links to sites that contain additional information).
15890279	Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDK) is a ubiquitous enzyme found in all organisms and cell types, and catalyzes the transfer of the phosphoryl group from a nucleoside triphosphate to a nucleoside diphosphate. The enzyme is involved in and required for coleoptile elongation in rice as the level of the rice NDK (rNDK) changes during seed germination and the early stages of seedling growth. The expression of rice NDK gene is up-regulated in the growing coleoptiles when the anaerobic stress persists. The rNDK structure determined at 2.5 A resolution consists of a four-stranded anti-parallel beta-sheet, of which the surfaces are partially covered with six alpha-helices; its overall and active site structures are similar to those of homologous enzymes except the major conformation variations of residue 132-138 regions, involving significant structural contacts. The model contains 148 residues of 149 residues in total and averaged 19 water molecules per monomer for 12 molecules in an asymmetric unit. A mold of 12 superimposed molecules shows that the alphaA-alpha2 area has greater variations and higher temperature factors, indicating the flexibility for a substrate entrance. Hexameric molecular packing in both crystal and solution implies that rNDK functions as hexamers. This rNDK structure, which is the first NDK structure from a higher plant system, provides the structural information essential to understand the functional significance of this enzyme during growth and development in both rice and other plants.
15890521	We analyzed the herbicidal and antioxidant defense responses of transgenic rice plants that overexpressed the Myxococcus xanthus protoporphyrinogen oxidase gene. Leaf squares of the wild-type incubated with oxyfluorfen were characterized by necrotic leaf lesions and increases in conductivity and malonyldialdehyde levels, whereas transgenic lines M4 and M7 did not show any change with up to 100 microM oxyfluorfen. The wild-type had decreased F(v)/F(m) and produced a high level of H(2)O(2) at 18 h after foliar application of oxyfluorfen, whereas transgenic lines M4 and M7 were unaffected. In response to oxyfluorfen, violaxanthin, beta-carotene, and chlorophylls (Chls) decreased in wild-type plants, whereas antheraxanthin and zeaxanthin increased. Only a slight decline in Chls was observed in transgenic lines at 48 h after oxyfluorfen treatment. Noticeable increases of cytosolic Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase, peroxidase isozymes 1 and 2, and catalase were observed after at 48 h of oxyfluorfen treatment in the wild-type. Non-enzymatic antioxidants appeared to respond faster to oxyfluorfen-induced photodynamic stress than did enzymatic antioxidants. Protective responses for the detoxification of active oxygen species were induced to counteract photodynamic stress in oxyfluorfen-treated, wild-type plants. However, oxyfluorfen-treated, transgenic plants suffered less oxidative stress, confirming increased herbicidal resistance resulted from dual expression of M. xanthus Protox in chloroplasts and mitochondria.
15890746	A fundamental problem of computational genomics is identifying the genes that respond to certain endogenous cues and environmental stimuli. This problem can be referred to as targeted gene finding. Since gene regulation is mainly determined by the binding of transcription factors and cis-regulatory DNA sequences, most existing gene annotation methods, which exploit the conservation of open reading frames, are not effective in finding target genes. A viable approach to targeted gene finding is to exploit the cis-regulatory elements that are known to be responsible for the transcription of target genes. Given such cis-elements, putative target genes whose promoters contain the elements can be identified. As a case study, we apply the above approach to predict the genes in model plant Arabidopsis thaliana which are inducible by a phytohormone, abscisic acid (ABA), and abiotic stress, such as drought, cold and salinity. We first construct and analyze two ABA specific cis-elements, ABA-responsive element (ABRE) and its coupling element (CE), in A.thaliana, based on their conservation in rice and other cereal plants. We then use the ABRE-CE module to identify putative ABA-responsive genes in A.thaliana. Based on RT-PCR verification and the results from literature, this method has an accuracy rate of 67.5% for the top 40 predictions. The cis-element based targeted gene finding approach is expected to be widely applicable since a large number of cis-elements in many species are available.
15890961	Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-specific endonucleases belonging to RNase III classes 3 and 2 process dsRNA precursors to small interfering RNA (siRNA) or microRNA, respectively, thereby initiating and amplifying RNA silencing-based antiviral defense and gene regulation in eukaryotic cells. However, we now provide evidence that a class 1 RNase III is involved in suppression of RNA silencing. The single-stranded RNA genome of sweet potato chlorotic stunt virus (SPCSV) encodes an RNase III (RNase3) homologous to putative class 1 RNase IIIs of unknown function in rice and Arabidopsis. We show that RNase3 has dsRNA-specific endonuclease activity that enhances the RNA-silencing suppression activity of another protein (p22) encoded by SPCSV. RNase3 and p22 coexpression reduced siRNA accumulation more efficiently than p22 alone in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves expressing a strong silencing inducer (i.e., dsRNA). RNase3 did not cause intracellular silencing suppression or reduce accumulation of siRNA in the absence of p22 or enhance silencing suppression activity of a protein encoded by a heterologous virus. No other known RNA virus encodes an RNase III or uses two independent proteins cooperatively for RNA silencing suppression.
15891868	Chocolate is a complex sample with a high content of organic compounds and its analysis generally involves digestion procedures that might include the risk of losses and/or contamination. The determination of copper in chocolate is important because copper compounds are extensively used as fungicides in the farming of cocoa. In this paper, a slurry-sampling flame atomic-absorption spectrometric method is proposed for determination of copper in powdered chocolate samples. Optimization was carried out using univariate methodology involving the variables nature and concentration of the acid solution for slurry preparation, sonication time, and sample mass. The recommended conditions include a sample mass of 0.2 g, 2.0 mol L(-1) hydrochloric acid solution, and a sonication time of 15 min. The calibration curve was prepared using aqueous copper standards in 2.0 mol L(-1) hydrochloric acid. This method allowed determination of copper in chocolate with a detection limit of 0.4 microg g(-1) and precision, expressed as relative standard deviation (RSD), of 2.5% (n = 10) for a copper content of approximately 30 microg g(-1), using a chocolate mass of 0.2 g. The accuracy was confirmed by analyzing the certified reference materials NIST SRM 1568a rice flour and NIES CRM 10-b rice flour. The proposed method was used for determination of copper in three powdered chocolate samples, the copper content of which varied between 26.6 and 31.5 microg g(-1). The results showed no significant differences with those obtained after complete digestion, using a t-test for comparison.
15891897	The shikimate pathway is common to the biosynthesis of the three aromatic amino acids and that of various secondary metabolites in land plants. Shikimate kinase (SK; EC 2.7.1.71) catalyzes the phosphorylation of shikimate to yield shikimate 3-phosphate. In an attempt to elucidate the functional roles of enzymes that participate in the shikimate pathway in rice (Oryza sativa), we have now identified and characterized cDNAs corresponding to three SK genes--OsSK1, OsSK2, and OsSK3--in this monocotyledenous plant. These SK cDNAs encode proteins with different NH(2)-terminal regions and with putative mature regions that share sequence similarity with other plant and microbial SK proteins. An in vitro assay of protein import into intact chloroplasts isolated from pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings revealed that the full-length forms of the three rice SK proteins are translocated into chloroplasts and processed, consistent with the assumption that the different NH(2)-terminal sequences function as chloroplast transit peptides. The processed forms of all three rice proteins synthesized in vitro manifested SK catalytic activity. Northern blot analysis revealed that the expression of OsSK1 and OsSK2 was induced in rice calli by treatment with the elicitor N-acetylchitoheptaose, and that expression of OsSK1 and OsSK3 was up-regulated specifically during the heading stage of panicle development. These results suggest that differential expression of the three rice SK genes and the accompanying changes in the production of shikimate 3-phosphate may contribute to the defense response and to panicle development in rice.
15891901	Phytochromes are a family of red/far-red light perceiving photoreceptors. The monocot phytochrome family is represented by three members, PHYA, PHYB and PHYC. We have isolated and characterized the first PHY gene member (TaPHYC) from common wheat, Triticum aestivum var. CPAN1676. It codes for a species of the photoreceptor, phyC, which is known to be light-stable in all plants analyzed so far. A sequence of 7.2 kb has been determined, which includes 3.42 kb of coding region. This is the second full-length PHYC gene sequenced from a monocot (first was from rice). TaPHYC gene shares structural similarities with the rice PHYC containing four exons and three introns in the coding region. The 5' UTR is 1.0-kb-long and harbors an upstream open reading frame (URF) encoding 28 aa. Southern blot analysis of TaPHYC indicates that it represents single locus in the wheat genome, although the possibility of additional loci cannot be completely ruled out. Chromosomal localization using nullisomic-tetrasomic lines of Triticum aestivum var. Chinese Spring places TaPHYC on chromosome 4B. PHYC represents a constitutively expressed gene in all the organs tested and under light/dark conditions. However, PHYC was found to be developmentally regulated showing maximal expression in 3-day-old dark-grown seedlings, which declined thereafter. In silico analysis has also been done to compare TaPHYC gene with the partial sequences known from other wheat species and cultivars. The presence of a topoisomerase gene immediately downstream of the PHYC gene, both in rice and wheat genomes, presents yet another example of synteny in cereals and its possible significance has been discussed.
15893794	In 1978-1979, a mass poisoning occurred in central Taiwan from rice-bran oil contaminated by heat-degraded PCBs was later called the Yucheng (oil disease in Chinese). Only a few studies have so far investigated the levels of specific polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) or polychlorinated dibenzodioxin/furan (PCDD/F) congeners in the Yucheng victims. This study aimed to investigate the serum residual levels of thirty-three PCBs and seventeen 2,3,7,8-substituted PCDD/F congeners in the Yucheng victims 15 years after the exposure. Forty-one blood samples were collected from individual Yucheng victims in 1994-1995. The mean levels of total 33 PCBs and 17 PCDD/Fs were 2468 ng/g lipid (13.3 ng/g sample) and 6550 pg/g lipid (30.9 pg/g sample) respectively. The higher levels were found in PCBs #99, #138, #153, #156, #170, #179, and #180 among 33 PCB congeners, while 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF, and OCDD had the higher concentrations among 17 PCDD/F congeners. The total TEQ was contributed in decreasing order by 10 PCDFs (44%), three non-ortho-PCBs (24%), six mono-ortho-PCBs (20%), and seven PCDDs (12%). The mean total PCB levels and TEQ value of the 17 PCDD/Fs in the Yucheng victims 15 years after the toxic exposure were still 9 and 46 times higher than those in the general population in Taiwan. Principle component analysis (PCA) indicated that seven PCB congeners, PCBs #99, #138, #153, #156, #170, #179, and #180, accounted for 73% of the total variances in PCBs. On the other hand, six PCDD/F congeners, 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF, 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF, 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF, 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD, 1,2,3,4,6,7,8-HpCDF, and OCDD, accounted for 97% of the total variances in PCDD/Fs. In addition, PCA revealed that at least three characteristic patterns of congener profiles for PCBs were observed among the Yucheng victims. Similar trend was also observed for PCDD/Fs. These patterns may reflect distinctive exposure scenarios and/or different metabolizing capabilities among the Yucheng victims. We suggest that these patterns, in contrast to total PCB and PCDD/F levels, may be valuable for the future epidemiologic studies when linking exposure with specific health effect.
15894043	One of the important cultural practices that affect methane and nitrous oxide emissions from tropical rice plantations is the water drainage system. While drainage can reduce methane emissions, it can also increase nitrous oxide emissions, as well as reduce yields. In this experiment, four different water drainage systems were compared in a rice field in central Thailand including: (1) continuous flooding, (2) mid-season drainage, (3) multiple drainage and (4) a local method (drainage was done according to local cultural practice) in order to find a system of drainage that would optimize yields while simultaneously limiting methane and nitrous oxide emissions. Methane and nitrous oxide emission were observed and compared with rice yield and physical changes of rice plants. It was found that drainage during the flowering period could reduce methane emission. Interestingly, nitrous oxide emission was related to number of drain days rather than the frequency of draining. Fewer drain days can help reduce nitrous oxide emission. The mid-season drainage and the multiple drainage, with 6.9% and 11.4% reduction in rice yield, respectively, had an average methane emission per crop 27% and 35% lower when compared to the local method. Draining with fewer drain days during the flowering period was recommended as a compromise between emissions and yield. The field drainage can be used as an option to reduce methane and nitrous oxide emissions from rice fields with acceptable yield reduction. Mid-season drainage during the rice flowering period, with a shortened drainage period (3 days), is suggested as a compromise between the need to reduce global warming and current socio-economic realities.
15894053	Methane flux from rice varieties grown under two identical soils of Assam were monitored. In the first experiment, variety Jaya and GRT was grown in sandy loam soil of Lower Brahmaputra Valley Zone of Assam and the second experiment was conducted with variety Jyotiprasad and Bishnuprasad in sandy to sandy loam soils of Upper Brahmaputra Valley Zones of Assam. Methane flux recorded from variety Jyotiprasad and GRT was higher compared to variety Bishnuprasad and Jaya. The seasonal integrated flux recorded was 10.76 gm(-2), 9.98 gm(-2), 9.74 gm(-2) and 11.31 gm(-2) for variety GRT, Jaya, Bishnuprasad and Jyotiprasad, respectively. All the varieties exhibited two methane peaks one at maximum tillering stage and other at panicle initiation stage of the crop. Crop growth parameters such as leaf number, number of tillers and leaf area index (LAI) showed strong positive relationship with total methane flux. In both the experiments it was calculated that CH4 emission was substantially influenced by crop phenology and growth. This study emphasise the relationship of different growth parameters with methane emission.
15895515	To evaluate the molybdenum (Mo) status in the Japanese population, the Mo content in various foods and human milk was determined using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) and the average Mo intake was estimated. The difference in Mo content among food groups was marked; Mo levels in several plant foods such as cereals were more than 0.5 g/g while those in most animal foods were less than 0.1 microg/g. In particular, Mo contents in several samples of seeds and pulses were more than mixeo 1 mirog/g. The variation in Mo contents in each type of cereal was also conspicuous. Based on the present quantification of Mo in foods and the recent National Nutrition Survey in Japan, the average Mo intake of the Japanese population was estimated as 225 microg/d/capita. The principal Mo source in the Japanese diet was rice followed by soybean products, and approximately 90% of the Mo intake was derived from plant foods. Seventeen human milk samples were collected from 3 healthy mothers once or twice a month from 96 to 327 d after delivery. The median and range of Mo in human milk samples were 4.5 ng/mL and 2.0 to 8.8 ng/mL, respectively. Mo levels in Japanese formula milk were 2 to 3 ng/mL. Based on the Mo levels in human milk and formula milk, the Mo intake of Japanese infants was estimated to be 2 to 4 microg/d/capita.
15895691	A rice XIP-type inhibitor was purified by affinity chromatography with an immobilized Aspergillus aculeatus family 10 endoxylanase. Rice XIP is a monomeric protein, with a molecular mass of ca. 32 kDa and a pI of ca. 5.6. Its N-terminal amino acid sequence was identical to that of a rice chitinase homologue, demonstrating the difficulty when using sequence information to differentiate between endoxylanase inhibitors and (putative) chitinases in rice. Rice XIP inhibited different endoxylanases to a varying degree. In particular, it most strongly inhibited family 10 endoxylanases from A. niger and A. oryzae, while several family 11 enzymes from Bacillus subtilis, A. niger and Trichoderma sp. were not sensitive to inhibition. The above mentioned A. aculeatus endoxylanase was not inhibited either, although gel permeation chromatography revealed that it complexed rice XIP in a 1:1 molar stoichiometric ratio.
15895734	Sales and consumption of ready-to-eat aseptic steamed rice products have increased manyfold in Japan over the past 10 years. To determine the safety of steamed rice (water content 60%, pH 6.5) aseptically packaged under modified atmosphere, challenge studies were performed using a mixture of Clostridium botulinum proteolytic strains (five strains of type A and five strains of type B). Atmospheric conditions of 0 and 15% oxygen (with 5% CO2 and 5% N2 as the balance) were used. No neurotoxins were detected, and organoleptically acceptable conditions persisted for 24 weeks at 15% oxygen conditions. However, botulinum neurotoxin was found in one of three samples at 12 weeks and in one of two samples at 24 weeks at 0% oxygen and 30 degrees C. When samples were inoculated with C. botulinum with amylase (0% oxygen), neurotoxin and sample spoilage was detected after only 1 week of storage. Challenge studies using proteolytic strains of C. botulinum mixed with Bacillus subtilis (amylase formers) also were performed with atmosphere conditions of oxygen at 0, 5, 10, and 15% (with 5% CO2 and 5% N2 as the balance). Under 10 and 15% oxygen conditions, neurotoxin was not detected after 1 week of storage, but sample spoilage was detected after the same period. Under 0% oxygen conditions, neurotoxin was detected at 1 week, but the sample remained organoleptically acceptable even after 2 weeks of storage. Both neurotoxin and sample spoilage were detected at 1 week of storage under 5% oxygen conditions. Based on these results, cocontamination of amylase-producing Bacillus with C. botulinum would increase the risk of foodborne botulism when aseptic rice samples are packed under low-oxygen conditions (<5%). Therefore, to ensure the safety of these products, packing under atmospheric containing more than 10% oxygen is recommended.
15896509	This is a retrospective, epidemiological study of 19,157 acute burn patients admitted to the Hallym Burn Centre, Hangang Sacred Heart Hospital, Seoul, Korea, during the period 1986-2003. The study was conducted to identify characteristics of burn patients that could lead to development of preventive programs to reduce both the frequency and mortality of burn injury. The majority of patients admitted had relatively minor burns, which were treated conservatively. Males predominated in all age groups with a summer peak seasonal variation. Typical burn in the children <5 years of age was a scald injury, occurring at home, affecting upper limbs and resulting in a relatively short hospital stay. Electrical burns due to steel chopsticks and steam burns due to electric rice cookers were also found in this age group. Adult burns, affecting upper and lower limbs, were caused by flames, hot liquids or electricity. Burns were sustained at the workplace and outdoors. Flame accidents in males were the leading cause of death with overall mortality of 8.2%. 13.9% of admissions needed intensive care and average length of hospital stay was 32.6 days. The annual number of patients undergoing burn related surgery has continuously increased reflecting a more aggressive surgical management. Our ongoing efforts are to promote prevention program and look for changes in the incidence of burn injury based on these epidemiologic features. Further study for implications of changes in management protocols and policies on treatment outcomes would improve the provision of appropriate care for the patients.
15897749	This report presents our experience with 54 cases of patients who had excision of breast lesions after deployment of radiographic biopsy site markers at the time of stereotactic biopsy. These were of two types: pellets of a resorbable copolymer of polylactic acid/polyglycolic acid (31 cases) and plugs of bovine collagen (23 cases), both containing embedded metallic clips for long-term radiographic marking. On gross examination, the pellets have a characteristic appearance similar to a soft grain of rice, whereas the collagen plugs are spongiform with variable hemorrhagic changes. Microscopically, there are distinct differences in the morphologic features of these two types of biopsy site markers and the associated tissue reactions. With the pellets, there is an initial cell-poor fibrotic reaction around empty spaces followed by a multinucleate giant cell reaction and penetration of the marker core by eosinophilic fibrinous material. The collagen plugs are recognized as eosinophilic, hyalinized, acellular material, accompanied by an inflammatory infiltrate composed predominantly of lymphocytes, plasma cells, eosinophils and, occasionally, neutrophils, which penetrate the core of the marker with time. The degradation of the collagen plug appears to be associated with infiltration of the marker by fibrovascular tissue and deposition of native collagen; of note is the absence of a significant multinucleate giant cell reaction. These novel breast biopsy site markers do not interfere with the histologic processing of the tissue or with their histopathologic interpretation.
15898115	To investigate the molecular response of brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (BPH) to BPH-resistant rice plants, we isolated cDNA fragments of the genes encoding for carboxylesterase (CAR), trypsin (TRY), cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (P450), NADH-quinone oxidoreductase (NQO), acetylcholinesterase (ACE), and Glutathione S-transferase (GST). Expression profiles of the genes were monitored on fourth instar nymphs feeding on rice varieties with different resistance levels. Northern blot hybridization showed that, compared with BPH reared on susceptible rice TN1, expression of the genes for P450 and CAR was apparently up-regulated and TRY mRNA decreased in BPH feeding on a highly resistant rice line B5 and a moderately resistant rice variety MH63, respectively. Two transcripts of GST increased in BPH feeding on B5; but in BPH feeding on MH63, this gene was inducible and its expression reached a maximum level at 24 h, and then decreased slightly. The expression of NQO gene was enhanced in BPH on B5 plants but showed a constant expression in BPH on MH63 plants. No difference in ACE gene expression among BPH on different rice plants was detected by the RT-PCR method. The results suggest these genes may play important roles in the defense response of BPH to resistant rice.
15899566	Although hypothermia is an effective treatment for perinatal cerebral hypoxic-ischemic (HI) injury, it remains unclear how long and how deep we need to maintain hypothermia to obtain maximum neuroprotection. We examined effects of prolonged hypothermia on HI immature rat brain and its protective mechanisms using the Rice-Vannucci model. Immediately after the end of hypoxic exposure, the pups divided into a hypothermia group (30 degrees C) and a normothermia one (37 degrees C). Rectal temperature was maintained until they were sacrificed at each time point before 72h post HI. Prolonged hypothermia significantly reduced macroscopic brain injury compared with normothermia group. Quantitative analysis of cell death using H&E-stained sections revealed the number of both apoptotic and necrotic cells was significantly reduced by hypothermia after 24h post HI. Hypothermia seemed to decrease the number of TUNEL-positive cells. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot showed that prolonged hypothermia suppressed cytochrome c release from mitochondria to cytosol and activation of both caspase-3 and calpain in cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and striatum throughout the experiment. These results showed that prolonged hypothermia significantly reduced neonatal brain injury even when it was started after HI insult. Our results suggest that prolonged hypothermia protects neonatal brain after HI by reducing both apoptosis and necrosis.
15900662	This work reports studies of the degradation rates of a fatty alcohol polyglycol ether non-ionic surfactant, Genapol OXD-080, putatively useful for the control of red swamp crayfish (Procambarus clarkii Girard) in rice fields under laboratory and field conditions. The influence of temperature, sediment site specificity and sorption were taken into account. The degradation kinetics of the surfactant depends on the experimental conditions: type of inocula and temperature. The distribution of this chemical in aquatic systems was also examined. Genapol OXD-080 was removed into the sediments readily after application, and sorption was considered the major path of removal from the water phase. Data suggest that further studies are required regarding the effects of Genapol OXD-080 in aquatic organisms resident in rice fields, in parallel with the development of technologies related with the use of surfactants to control P. clarkii populations.
15900729	A pot experiment was conducted to investigate cadmium (Cd) uptake by different rice cultivars that produce white or dark grains. Four cultivars with white grains (hereafter, white rice) and five cultivars with dark colors (hereafter dark rice) were selected for this experiment. Three levels of soil Cd concentrations, background (0), 5 and 10 mg/kg, were used. After harvest, plant biomass, tissue concentrations of Cd, Ca, Fe, Cu and Zn were analyzed. The results showed that Cd concentrations are significantly different between different genotypes, but when comparing the Cd concentrations for the two groups, no significant difference was found. For other divalent cations, Ca concentrations in dark rice were higher than those in white ones (P < 0.001 for shoots, P = 0.037 for roots); Fe concentrations in dark rice were also higher than those in white ones (P = 0.001 either in shoot or root); Zn concentrations in shoot of dark rice were higher than those in white ones, but no significant difference in roots. The total molar concentrations of divalent cations in dark rice were also significantly higher than in white rice. The potential benefit of higher Ca and Fe concentrations in dark rice and similar Cd concentrations in both groups is also discussed in this paper.
15900748	Data collection of soil organic carbon(SOC) of 154 soil series of Jiangsu, China from the second provincial soil survey and of recent changes in SOC from a number of field pilot experiments across the province were collected. Statistical analysis of SOC contents and soil properties related to organic carbon storage were performed. The provincial total topsoil SOC stock was estimated to be 0.1 Pg with an extended pool of 0.4 Pg taking soil depth of 1 m, being relatively small compared to its total land area of 101700 km2 . One quarter of this topsoil stock was found in the soils of the Taihu Lake region that occupied 1/6 of the provincial arable area. Paddy soils accounted for over 50% of this stock in terms of SOC distribution among the soil types in the province. Experimental data from experimental farms widely distributed in the province showed that SOC storage increased consistently over the last 20 years despite a previously reported decreasing tendency during the period between 1950--1970. The evidence indicated that agricultural management practices such as irrigation, straw return and rotation of upland crops with rice or wheat crops contributed significantly to the increase in SOC storage. The annual carbon sequestration rate in the soils was in the range of 0.3-3.5 tC/(hm2 x a), depending on cropping systems and other agricultural practices. Thus, the agricultural production in the province, despite the high input, could serve as one of the practical methods to mitigate the increasing air CO2.
15900754	Paddy field is a primary agricultural landscape in the south of China and is often regarded as one of main sources emitting nitrous oxide to atmosphere. The nitrous oxide emissions under a variety of paddy field practices, such as fertilization, flooding/draining management were investigated to study on agricultural activities on paddy field affect the dynamic process of the emission. Under no addition of fertilizers the average emission flux of nitrous oxide was 8.55 microg/(m2 x h) during the rice(Oryza Sativa L.) growth season. The results indicated that most of nitrous oxide emissions occurred during the crack forming-and-expansion period when paddy field was being drained. The diurnal emissions peak of nitrous oxide appeared at 20:30 at night in cracked rice fields. The statistical analysis suggested that the correlation of nitrous oxide emissions flux (Y) with soil water content (X1), soil temperature (X2), and Eh (X3), could be described in a regression equation: Y= - 1498.95 + 2895.48X, + 50.63 X2 - 96.99X1 x X2 + 0.006X2 x X3. There were the different power equations to simulate the correlations between the everyday dynamic N2O emissions and the mean surface area of cracks, mean volume and depth of cracks respectively during paddy soil drying by soil columns incubation experiments. Taken all together, the current study presented a dynamic analysis of nitrous oxide emission of paddy field under various conditions, therefore provided a basis for the management to balance between environmental effect and paddy field activities.
15900761	At a rice-wheat rotational free-air CO2 enrichment(FACE) platform, the effect of elevated atmospheric CO2 on soil nematode communities in a farmland ecosystem was studied. Wheat plots were exposed to elevated atmospheric CO2 (ambient 370 microl/L + 200 microl/L). 32 families and 40 genera of nematode were observed in soil suspensions during the study period. Under FACE treatment, the numbers of total nematodes, bacterivores and fungivores exhibited an increasing trend. Because of the seasonal variation of soil temperature and moisture, the effect of elevated atmospheric CO2 on soil nematodes was only observed under favorable conditions. The response of nematode communities to elevated atmospheric CO2 may indicate the change of soil food web.
15900889	We investigated the role that manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), an important antioxidant enzyme, may play in the drought tolerance of rice. MnSOD from pea (Pisum sativum) under the control of an oxidative stress-inducible SWPA2 promoter was introduced into chloroplasts of rice (Oryza sativa) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation to develop drought-tolerant rice plants. Functional expression of the pea MnSOD in transgenic rice plants (T1) was revealed under drought stress induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000. After PEG treatment the transgenic leaf slices showed reduced electrolyte leakage compared to wild type (WT) leaf slices, whether they were exposed to methyl viologen (MV) or not, suggesting that transgenic plants were more resistant to MV- or PEG-induced oxidative stress. Transgenic plants also exhibited less injury, measured by net photosynthetic rate, when treated with PEG. Our data suggest that SOD is a critical component of the ROS scavenging system in plant chloroplasts and that the expression of MnSOD can improve drought tolerance in rice.
15900973	The family Acetobacteraceae currently includes three known nitrogen-fixing species, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus, G. johannae and G. azotocaptans. In the present study, acetic acid-producing nitrogen-fixing bacteria were isolated from four different wetland rice varieties cultivated in the state of Tamilnadu, India. Most of these isolates were identified as G. diazotrophicus on the basis of their phenotypic characteristics and PCR assays using specific primers for that species. Based on 16S rDNA partial sequence analysis and DNA: DNA reassociation experiments the remaining isolates were identified as Acetobacter peroxydans, another species of the Acetobacteraceae family, thus far never reported as diazotrophic. The presence of nifH genes in A. peroxydans was confirmed by PCR amplification with nifH specific primers. Scope for the findings: This is the first report of the occurrence and association of N2-fixing Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus and Acetobacter peroxydans with wetland rice varieties. This is the first report of diazotrophic nature of A. peroxydans.
15901571	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is not only one of the most important food crops in the world,but also a model plant for study of molecular developmental biology in monocots. In addition, the rice floral organs provide the basis for grain formation. Study of rice floral development has become a new focus of plant molecular genetics. Recently, notable progress has been made in study of gene regulation in rice floral development. In the review, genetic and molecular mechanisms of floral induction, floral meristem formation, and floral organ development in rice are summarized.
15901827	We report an extensive proteome analysis of rice etioplasts, which were highly purified from dark-grown leaves by a novel protocol using Nycodenz density gradient centrifugation. Comparative protein profiling of different cell compartments from leaf tissue demonstrated the purity of the etioplast preparation by the absence of diagnostic marker proteins of other cell compartments. Systematic analysis of the etioplast proteome identified 240 unique proteins that provide new insights into heterotrophic plant metabolism and control of gene expression. They include several new proteins that were not previously known to localize to plastids. The etioplast proteins were compared with proteomes from Arabidopsis chloroplasts and plastid from tobacco Bright Yellow 2 cells. Together with computational structure analyses of proteins without functional annotations, this comparative proteome analysis revealed novel etioplast-specific proteins. These include components of the plastid gene expression machinery such as two RNA helicases, an RNase II-like hydrolytic exonuclease, and a site 2 protease-like metalloprotease all of which were not known previously to localize to the plastid and are indicative for so far unknown regulatory mechanisms of plastid gene expression. All etioplast protein identifications and related data were integrated into a data base that is freely available upon request.
15905993	Rye has one of the most efficient groups of genes for aluminum tolerance (Alt) among cultivated species of Triticeae. This tolerance is controlled by, at least, three independent and dominant loci (Alt1, Alt2, and Alt3) located on chromosome arms 6RS, 3RS, and 4RL, respectively. The segregation of Alt genes and several random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), Secale cereale inter-microsatellite (SCIM), and Secale cereale microsatellite (SCM) markers in three F(2) between a tolerant cultivar (Ailés) and a non-tolerant inbred line (Riodeva) were studied. The segregation ratio obtained for aluminum tolerance in the three F(2) populations analyzed was 3:1 (tolerant:non-tolerant), indicating that tolerance is controlled by one dominant locus. SCIM811(1376) was linked to an Alt gene in the three F(2) populations studied, and three different SCIMs and one RAPD (SCIM811(1376), SCIM812(626), SCIM812(1138), and OPQ4(725)) were linked to the Alt gene in two F(2) populations. This result indicated that the same Alt gene was segregating in the three crosses. SCIM819(1434) and OPQ4(578) linked to the tolerance gene in one F(2) population were located using wheat-rye ditelosomic addition lines on the 7RS chromosome arm. The Alt locus is mapped between SCIM819(1434) and the OPQ4(578) markers. Two microsatellite loci (SCM-40 and SCM-86), previously located on chromosome 7R, were also linked to the Alt gene. Therefore, the Alt gene segregating in these F(2) populations is new and probably could be orthologous to the Alt genes located on wheat chromosome arm 4DL, on barley chromosome arm 4HL, on rye chromosome arm 4RL, and rice chromosome 3. This new Alt gene located on rye chromosome arm 7RS was named Alt4. A map of rye chromosome 7R with the Alt4 gene, 16 SCIM and RAPD, markers and two SCM markers was obtained.
15906634	The aim of the study was to describe clinical cases of childhood bladder stones and associated risk factors. Forty children (9 girls), aged 1-14-years old, (means 4.7 +/- 0.5 years), who underwent surgical stone removal in the Saravane Provincial Hospital during a 13-month period, were included. Bladder stone removal accounted for 55% of all surgical procedures performed on children. Most frequent symptoms were impaired micturition (97%) and acute urinary retention (32%). Body mass index was low, at < 18.5 in 92% of all cases, indicating serious associated malnutrition. Parental interviews disclosed a history of recent episodes of diarrhea (> 3 episodes in the previous year), recurrent urinary tract infection, and familial urolithiasis, in 60, 32, and 27% of patients, respectively. All children had been or were being breastfed, but 72% of the mothers introduced white rice into their children' diet as early as the first week of life, while 85% of them used to vary the food regimen (introducing meat, fish, fruit and vegetables) only after 1 year of age. This preliminary study suggests that the morbidity and social cost of childhood bladder stones may be high. A larger scale prospective and comparative study assessing their incidence and associated nutritional factors is warranted and feasible, and may lead to preventive measures.
15907051	Rice Bran Oil (RBO) has got many health benefits. RBO has been analyzed for physico-chemical characteristics and compared with those of groundnut oil (GNO). The two oils were similar in various physicochemical characteristics. The major difference in the two oils lay in the amount of unsaponifiable matter, which was higher in the case of RBO. To find the in vivo antioxygenic potential of RBO, particularly its ability to protect against oxidative stress, rats were divided into two groups of 10 animals, each and were maintained on diets containing RBO or GNO for a period of 4 weeks. After which stress was induced to half the animals of each group by administering intraperitoneally N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) (100 mg/kg) body weight and remaining half served as respective controls. Animals were sacrified 1 week after stress induction. Intraperitoneal administration of NDEA resulted in a significant reduction in body weight and feed intake, the effect being appreciably less in RBO fed group. NDEA toxicity was mainly reflected in liver as supported by increased activities of enzymes of liver function test (AST, ALT, ALP) on stress induction but the effect was appreciably of lesser degree in the group fed on RBO. The urea levels were also less in the group fed on RBO, The lipid peroxidation (LPO) increased on stress induction in erythrocytes and in all the tissues, the increase being less in RBO fed group except in kidneys. Stress induction resulted in decreased catalase (CAT) activity, the decrease being less in RBO fed group. The increase in peroxidase (Px) activity on stress induction was more in RBO fed group. Stress induction had no significant effect on superoxide-dismutase (SOD) activity except in liver and heart where it increased on stress induction. Thus, it appears that inclusion of RBO in the diet improves the antioxygenic potential and protect against oxidative stress.
15907065	Interference of three dominant weed extracts viz., Ageratum conyzoides L., Melilotus indica All. and Parthenium hysterophorus L. were examined on seed germination, seedling growth, and nutrient uptake (32P and 65Zn) in three different varieties (PD-10, PD-12 and PB) of paddy (Oryza sativa L.). Among the three different varieties irrespective of weed extracts, PD-10 and PD-12 were resistant and PB was susceptible in terms of seed germination, radicle length and plumule dry weight; and PD-12 and PB were resistant and susceptible, respectively, in terms of plumule length and total seedling dry weight. A. conyzoides caused maximum reduction in seed germination and M. indica in seedling growth in different varieties of paddy. The weed extracts interfered in uptake of both 32P and 65Zn and there was a gradual decrease in uptake of both nutrients with increasing concentration of extracts in both root and shoot. The uptake of 32P and 65Zn was more inhibitory with the extracts of A. conyzoides and M. indica, respectively in different varieties. The inhibition in seed germination, seedling growth and nutrient uptake may be due to the presence of phenolics and other secondary metabolities. The phenolics such as gallic, vanillic, protocatechuic and p-hydroxybenzoic acids were identified from these weed extracts.
15907686	Sodium at high millimolar levels in the cytoplasm is toxic to plant and yeast cells. Sequestration of Na+ ions into the vacuole through the action of tonoplast proton pumps (an H+ -ATPase in the case of yeast, and either a H+ -pyrophosphatase (H+ -PPase) or H+ -ATPase in the case of plants) and a Na+/H+ antiporter is one mechanism that confers salt tolerance to these organisms. The cloning and characterization of genes encoding these tonoplast transport proteins from crop plants may contribute to our understanding of how to enhance crop plant response to saline stress. We cloned wheat orthologs of the Arabidopsis genes AtNHX1 and AVP1 using the polymerase chain reaction and primers corresponding to conserved regions of the respective coding sequences, and a wheat cDNA library as template. The wheat NHX cDNA cloned by this approach was a variant of the previously reported TNHX1 gene. The vacuolar H+ -PPase pump we cloned (TVP1) is the first member of this gene family cloned from wheat; it is deduced translation product is homologous to proteins encoded by genes in barley, rice, and Arabidopsis. Function of TNHX1 as a cation/proton antiporter was demonstrated using the nhx1 yeast mutant. TNHX1 was capable of suppressing the hyg sensitivity of nhx1. Functional characterization of the wheat H+ -PPase TVP1 was demonstrated using the yeast ena1 (plasma membrane Na+ -efflux transporter) mutant. Expression of TVP1 in ena1 suppressed its Na+ hypersensitivity. Expression analysis of salt-stressed wheat plants showed substantial up-regulation of TNHX1 transcript levels as compared to control plants, while transcript accumulation for TVP1 was not greatly affected by exposure of plants to salt stress.
15907692	Here we characterized a rice (Oryza sativa L.) blast lesion mimic (blm) mutant, identified previously in an N-methyl-N-nitrosourea-mutagenized population of the cultivar Hwacheong (wild type). The rice blm displayed spontaneous necrotic lesion formation on the leaves during development under long-day condition and temperature shift from 28 to 24 degrees C in the absence of obvious stress/disease, and provided us with a highly reproducible and convenient experimental system in the growth chamber to study blm. The blm phenotype resembled to the cell death of hypersensitive reaction (HR), and subsequent, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DGE) revealed induction of many leaf proteins; prominent among them were the three pathogenesis-related (PR) marker proteins of class 5 (one spot) and 10 (two spots). Interestingly, the rice blm manifested HR against all races tested of the rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea), providing high resistance in a non-race specific manner. It was also observed that blm was highly resistant to hydrogen peroxide treatment. Using 2-DGE immunoblotting, we identified the presence of 4 new spots cross-reacting with a superoxide dismutase (SOD) antibody, only in blm, suggesting the expression of potentially new SOD protein (isoforms) during lesion formation. In the leaves of blm, autofluorescent compounds accumulated in and around the site of lesion progression. Moreover, enhanced levels of two major rice phytoalexins, sakuranetin and momilactone A were also observed in the leaves of blm. These results indicate that blm confers broad-spectrum resistance to multiple pathogens, and so, it could be hypothesized that the BLM gene product may control the HR-like cell death and its associated multiple defense signaling pathways, as evidenced by induction of known hallmark features (proteins/metabolites) linked with the defense responses, in rice.
15908504	Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) crystal protein genes encode insecticidal delta-endotoxins that are widely used for the development of insect-resistant crops. In this article, we describe an alternative transgenic strategy that has the potential to generate broader and more sustainable levels of resistance against insect pests. Our strategy involves engineering plants with a fusion protein combining the delta-endotoxin Cry1Ac with the galactose-binding domain of the nontoxic ricin B-chain (RB). This fusion, designated BtRB, provides the toxin with additional, binding domains, thus increasing the potential number of interactions at the molecular level in target insects. Transgenic rice and maize plants engineered to express the fusion protein were significantly more toxic in insect bioassays than those containing the Bt gene alone. They were also resistant to a wider range of insects, including important pests that are not normally susceptible to Bt toxins. The potential impact of fusion genes such as BtRB in terms of crop improvement, resistance sustainability, and biosafety is discussed.
15909329	Mutation (substitution, deletion, insertion, etc.) in nucleotide acid causes the maximal sequence lengths of exact match (MALE) between paralogous members from a duplicate event to become shorter during evolution. In this work, MALE changes between members of 26 gene families from four representative species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Mus musculus and Homo sapiens) were investigated. Comparative study of paralogous' MALE and amino acid substitution rate (d(A)<0.5) indicated that a close relationship existed between them. The results suggested that MALE could be a sound evolutionary scale for the divergent time for paralogous genes during their early evolution. A reference table between MALE and divergent time for the four species was set up, which would be useful widely, for large-scale genome alignment and comparison. As an example, detection of large-scale duplication events of rice genome based on the table was illustrated.
15909335	Angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory peptides have been shown to have antihypertensive effects and have been utilized for physiologically functional foods and pharmaceuticals. The ACE inhibitory ability of a hydrolysate is determined by its peptide composition. However, the peptide composition of a hydrolysate depends on proteolytic enzyme and the hydrolysis conditions. In this study, the effect of process conditions on the ACE inhibitory activity of rice dregs hydrolyzed with a trypsin was investigated systematically using response surface methodology. It was shown that the ACE inhibitory activity of rice dregs hydrolysates could be controlled by regulation of five process conditions. Hydrolysis conditions for optimal ACE inhibition were defined using the response surface model of fractional factorial design (FFD), steepest ascent design, and central composite design (CCD).
15910330	Phylogeography of Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) was reconstructed from the coat protein gene sequences of a selection of 173 isolates from the 14 countries of mainland Africa where the disease occurred and from the full sequences of 16 representative isolates. Genetic variation was linked to geographical distribution and not to host species as isolates from wild rice always clustered with isolates from cultivated rice of the same region. Genetic variation was not associated to agro-ecology, viral interference and insect vector species. Distinct RYMV lineages occurred in East, Central and West Africa, although the Central African lineage included isolates from Benin, Togo and Niger at the west, adjacent to countries of the West African lineage. Genetic subdivision at finer geographical scales was apparent within lineages of Central and West Africa, although less pronounced than in East Africa. Physical obstacles, but also habitat fragmentation, as exemplified by the small low-lying island of Pemba offshore Tanzania mainland, explained strain localization. Three new highly divergent strains were found in eastern Tanzania. By contrast, intensive surveys in Cote d'Ivoire and Guinea at the west of Africa did not reveal any new variant. Altogether, this supported the view that the Eastern Arc Mountains biodiversity hotspot was the centre of origin of RYMV and that the virus spread subsequently from east to west across Africa. In West Africa, specific strains occurred in the Inner Niger Delta and suggested it was a secondary centre of diversification. Processes for diversification and dispersion of RYMV are proposed.
15911558	Reduced net photosynthesis (Pn) and decreasing shoot and root biomass are typical effects of phosphorus deficiency in plants. Lower biomass accumulation could be the result of reduced Pn (source limitation), but may also be due to direct negative effects of low P availability on growth (sink limitation). Because of the principal importance of root growth for P uptake, this study specifically examined the question whether source or sink limitations were responsible for reduced root growth rates under P deficiency. Rice plants were grown in nutrient solutions with four levels of P supply and at two light treatments and the effect of Pxlight treatments on growth and carbohydrate distribution was observed. Plants had up to 70% higher Pn when grown with natural (high) light compared with low light. Higher Pn, however, did not lead to additional growth under P deficiency, suggesting that assimilate supply from source leaves to roots was not a limiting factor under P deficiency. This was supported by observations that root starch concentrations increased in P-deficient roots. The comparison of two genotypes with different tolerance to P deficiency showed that the more tolerant one preferentially distributed P to roots where the additional P stimulated root growth and, ultimately, P uptake. The results therefore suggest that source limitation is of little importance under P deficiency. Even at highly sub-optimal tissue P concentrations of below 0.7 mg P g(-1) dry weight, plants were able to produce enough assimilates to sustain growth rates that were directly limited by low P availability.
15912317	Photoperiod-sensitive genic male-sterile (PSGMS) rice, in which pollen fertility is regulated by day-length, originally arose as a natural mutant in the rice cultivar Nongken 58 (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica). Previous studies identified pms3 on chromosome 12 as the locus of the original PSGMS mutation. In this study we have assigned the pms3 locus to a 28.4-kb DNA fragment by genetic and physical mapping. A cross between Nongken 58S (PSGMS line) and DH80 was used to produce an F2 population of about 7000 plants, from which 892 highly sterile individuals were obtained for recombination analysis. By analyzing recombination events in the sterile individuals using a total of 157 RFLP probes from a BAC contig covering the pms3 region, the pms3 locus was localized to a sub-region of less than 1.7 cM. Further analysis of recombination events using 49 additional probes isolated from this sub-region identified markers flanking the pms3 region on each side; these markers are only 28.4-kb apart. Sequence analysis of this fragment predicted the presence of five ORFs, found high homology with two ESTs in public databases, and detected three SNPs between the mutant and the wild-type parents, which may be helpful for identifying a candidate gene for pms3.
15912354	Potato plants (Solanum tuberosum cv. May Queen) transgenic for OASA1D, which encodes a point mutant of an alpha-subunit of rice (Oryza sativa) anthranilate synthase (AS, EC 4.1.3.27), were generated in order to determine the effects of the mutant gene on levels of free tryptophan (Trp) and AS activity in this important crop. Expression of OASA1D in potato induced a 2- to 20-fold increase in the amount of free Trp. This increase was likely due to a reduction in the sensitivity of AS containing the mutant alpha-subunit to feedback inhibition by Trp. Nontargeted metabolite profiling by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with ultraviolet photodiode array detection as well as targeted profiling by liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry revealed no marked changes in the levels of other metabolites, with the exception of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), in the transgenic plants. The level of IAA in the upper part of the shoot was increased by a factor of 8.3-39, depending on the transgenic lines, with no detectable effect on plant growth or development. The effects of transformation thus appeared limited to the biosynthesis of Trp and IAA, with the overall metabolic network in potato being virtually unaffected. These results suggest that transformation with OASA1D may prove effective for the breeding of crops with an increased level of free Trp.
159129
15913257	We describe in this paper an easy route to the synthesis of a novel surface-functionalized conducting polyaniline-chitosan nanocomposite. A stable colloidal dispersion was prepared when aniline was polymerized in the presence of chitosan as the steric stabilizer. TEM study shows that these surface-functionalized polyaniline-chitosan nanoparticles have rice-grain morphologies. The effect of reaction parameters on the mean size of the polyaniline-chitosan nanoparticles was studied. The steric electrostatic interaction between segments of these two polymers explains the excellent storage stability of the polyaniline-chitosan dispersion. Reaction parameters were optimized in order to get stable polyaniline-chitosan dispersion. The chemical structures of polyaniline-chitosan nanocomposite were characterized. FT-IR spectra of the polyaniline-chitosan nanocomposite show that there exist a certain interaction between polyaniline and chitosan. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy spectra show that chitosan is largely present at the surface of polyaniline-chitosan nanoparticles. The electrical conductivity of the polyaniline-chitosan nanocomposite increases with increasing the amount of polyaniline to a high value of 0.25 S/cm.
15913338	To evaluate the exposure of Koreans to ochratoxin A, we conducted a survey in 2003 for ochratoxin A in various domestic food commodities: 60 polished rices, 22 barleys, 35 wheat flours, 46 beers, and 14 unstrained rice wine (makkolli) samples. They were analyzed for ochratoxin A using immunoaffinity column and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-fluorescence detection, and the positive samples were confirmed using HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry. By combining results from different surveys on the levels of ochratoxin A in selected foods and the consumption patterns, we obtained the Korean probable daily intakes (PDI) of ochratoxin A. The polished rice commodity had the highest mean levels of ochratoxin A, which ranged from 0.2 (not detected, i.e., ND = 0) to 1.0 ng/g (ND = limit of detection, i.e., LOD). The estimated PDI for all Koreans fell into the range of 0.8-4.1 ng/kg bw/day, while for heavy consumers the estimates ranged from 1.7 to 9.1 ng/kg bw/day, which did not exceed the PTDI value (14 ng/kg bw/day). Staple rice is the major contributor (>90%) to the Korean dietary intake of ochratoxin A. On the basis of these estimates, it may be concluded that there is at present no considerable risk of ochratoxin A exposure for the average Korean consumer.
15913561	Previously, effect of Al ions on calcium signaling was assessed in tobacco cells expressing a Ca2+-monitoring luminescent protein, aequorin and a newly isolated putative plant Ca2+ channel protein from Arabidopsis thaliana, AtTPC1 (two-pore channel 1). TPC1 channels were shown to be the only channel known to be sensitive to Al and they are responsive to reactive oxygen species and cryptogein, a fungal elicitor protein. Thus, involvement of TPC1 channels in calcium signaling leading to development of plant defense mechanism has been suggested. Then, the use of Al as a specific inhibitor of TPC1-type plant calcium channels has been proposed. Here, using transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells expressing aequorin, we report on the evidence in support of the involvement of Al-sensitive signaling pathway requiring TPC1-type channel-dependent Ca2+ influx in response to salicylic acid, a key plant defense-inducing agent, but not to an elicitor prepared from the cell wall of rice blast disease fungus Magnaporthe grisea. In addition, involvement of Al-sensitive Ca2+ channels in response to cold shock was also tested. The data suggested that the elicitor used here induces the Ca2+ influx via Al-insensitive path, while salicylic acid and cold-shock-stimulate the influx of Ca2+ via Al-sensitive mechanism.
15913821	Red fermented rice (RFR), known as Asian traditional fermentation foodstuff, is now used as natural colorants and a dietary supplement all over the world. However, the discovery of citrinin in RFR has led to a controversy about the safety of RFR. In this paper, a mutant strain, Monascus spp. M12-69, was acquired by treatment with mutagenic agents from a wild strain M12 of Monascus screened from RFR samples gathered around China. According to the classification guide of Hawksworth and Pitt on Monascus genus, they belong to Monascus pilosus Sato. The conditions of solid state fermentation of M12-69 were optimized. At the optimum conditions, the concentrations of monacolin K and citrinin in RFR, which was dried at 50 degrees C to a constant weight, were 2.52 mg/g and 0.13 ng/g, respectively. These results reveal that Strain M12-69 is a potential strain, which can be used to produce RFR with high concentration of monacolin K and low concentration of citrinin.
15914031	For proteins of higher eukaryotes, such as plants, which have large genomes, recombinant protein expression and purification are often difficult. Expression levels tend to be low and the expressed proteins tend to misfold and aggregate. We tested seven different expression vectors in Escherichia coli for rapid subcloning of rice genes and for protein expression and solubility levels. Each expressed gene product has an N-terminal fusion protein and/or tag, and an engineered protease site upstream of the mature rice protein. Several different fusion proteins/tags and protease sites were tested. We found that the fusion proteins and the protease sites have significant and varying effects on expression and solubility levels. The expression vector with the most favorable characteristics is pDEST-trx. The vector, which is a modified version of the commercially available expression vector, pET-32a, contains an N-terminal thioredoxin fusion protein and a hexahistidine tag, and is adapted to the Gateway expression system. However, addition of an engineered protease site could drastically change the expression and solubility properties. We selected 135 genes corresponding to potentially interesting rice proteins, transferred the genes from cDNAs to expression vectors, and engineered in suitable protease sites N-terminal to the mature proteins. Of 135 genes, 131 (97.0%) could be expressed and 72 (53.3%) were soluble when the fusion proteins/tags were present. Thirty-eight mature-length rice proteins and domains (28.1%) are suitable for NMR solution structure studies and/or X-ray crystallography. Our expression systems are useful for the production of soluble plant proteins in E. coli to be used for structural genomics studies.
15914144	The present work involves an investigation of the possible use of coal, residual coal, and residual coal treated with H3PO4 as a means of removal of phenol from wastewater. The study was realized using batch experiments, with synthetic wastewater having phenol concentration of 1000 ppm. Other low-cost adsorbents such as petroleum coke, coke breeze, rice husk, and rice husk char have also been used. The effect of system variables such as pH, contact time, and temperature has been investigated. The suitability of the Freundlich, Langmuir, and Redlich-Peterson adsorption models to the equilibrium data was investigated for each phenol-adsorbent system. The results showed that the equilibrium data for all the phenol-sorbent systems fitted the Redlich-Peterson model best. Kinetic modeling of removal of phenols was done using the Lagergren first-order rate expression. A series of column experiments were performed to determine the breakthrough curves.
15914233	The objectives of this work were estimate the reaction rates of hydrolysis of carbosulfan to carbofuran and subsequent degradation of this last compound in irrigated rice fields, and the respective half life, in aquatic environment and soil solution, by mean of numerical solution of differential ordinary linear equations system that describes the kinetics of insecticide concentrations. The results indicated that the carbosulfan and carbofuran have low persistence in water and medium persistence in soil solution of tropical irrigated rice fields. However, both compounds can be found in laminar water and soil solution in concentration above environmental and human safety limits.
15914917	Rice (Oryza sativa var. Nipponbare) was transformed with an artificial avidin gene. The features of this construct are as follows: (1) a signal peptide sequence derived from barley alpha amylase was added at the N-terminal region, (2) codon usage of the gene was optimized for rice, and (3) the gene was driven by rice glutelin GluB-1, an endosperm-specific promoter. Avidin was produced in the grain of the transgenic rice but not in the leaves. The concentration of avidin in the kernels was about 1,800 ppm. All larvae of the confused flour beetle (Tribolium confusum) and Angoumois grain moth (Sitotroga cerealella) died when fed transgenic avidin rice powder or kernels, respectively, whereas most of the test insects developed into adults when they were fed a nontransgenic rice control diet. Avidin extracted from the transgenic rice kernel lost most biotin-binding activity after 5 min heating at 95 degrees C.
15914918	The ZKT gene from Arabidopsis encodes a polypeptide of 335 amino acid residues, with a calculated molecular mass of 37.4 kDa. ZKT is a member of a novel protein family present in the plant kingdom, which contains a PDZ, a K-box, and a TPR motif. A BLAST search indicated that the ZKT gene is a single gene in Arabidopsis and that ZKT homologs are present in soybean and rice but not in animals. The level of ZKT mRNA decreased after wounding. Antisera from rabbit immunized with recommbinant ZKT protein recognized a protein of 37 kDa in Arabidopsis. Western analysis with anti-ZKT antibody indicated that the level of ZKT protein does not change after wounding. The ZKT protein has consensus sequence motifs for phosphorylation. Immunoprecipitation with anti-ZKT antibody and western analysis with anti-phosphoamino acid antibody indicated that the ZKT protein is phosophorylated at the threonine and serine residues after wounding. These results suggest that the ZKT protein may act as a molecular adaptor regulated by phosphorylation in wound responses.
15915154	A cross-sectional study was undertaken to assess the nutritional status of children aged 3-15 y in remote villages of Lao PDR. Study sites were chosen from two provinces: Luang namtha (north) and Sekong province (south). All the sampled 1075 children were measured for anthropometry, following the standard methods. Dietary intake, morbidity and socio-economic data were obtained by interviews with parents. This study confirmed the high prevalence of growth retardation among children, as well as persistent food insecurity in the remote areas of Lao PDR. Prevalence of stunting was 74.1% in Luang namtha and 62.6% in Sekong province, with school-aged children being worse-off than under-five ones. Children's diets were inadequate in quality as well as in quantity, with very limited availability of rice and other food items throughout the year. Our findings also suggest the negative outcomes of government's development programme were often overlooked, and that more attention should be paid on the fragile living conditions in the resettlement villages, especially for the ethnic minority.
15915636	The Arabidopsis LSD1 and LOL1 proteins both contain three conserved zinc finger domains and have antagonistic effects on plant programmed cell death (PCD). In this study, a rice (Oryza sativa) functional homolog of LSD1, designated OsLSD1, was identified. The expression of OsLSD1 was light-induced or dark-suppressed. Overexpression of OsLSD1 driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter accelerated callus differentiation in transformed rice tissues and increased chlorophyll b content in transgenic rice plants. Antisense transgenic rice plants exhibited lesion mimic phenotype, increased expression of PR-1 mRNA, and an accelerated hypersensitive response when inoculated with avirulent isolates of blast fungus. Both sense and antisense transgenic rice plants conferred significantly enhanced resistance against a virulent isolate of blast fungus. Moreover, ectopic overexpression of OsLSD1 in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) enhanced the tolerance to fumonisins B1 (FB1), a PCD-eliciting toxin. OsLSD1 green fluorescent protein fusion protein was located in the nucleus of tobacco cells. Our results suggest that OsLSD1 plays a negative role in regulating plant PCD, whereas it plays a positive role in callus differentiation.
15915638	The fungus Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, is a major pathogen of rice and is capable of producing epidemics on other cultivated cereals, including barley (Hordeum vulgare). We explored the requirements for basal resistance of barley against a compatible M. grisea isolate using both genetic and chemical approaches. Mutants of the RAR1 gene required for the function of major resistance gene-mediated resistance and mutants of the ROR1 and ROR2 genes required for full expression of cell-wall-penetration resistance against powdery mildew pathogens were examined for macroscopic and microscopic alterations in M. grisea growth and symptoms. RAR1 contributed to resistance in epidermis and mesophyll at different stages of fungal infection dependent on the MLO/mlo-5 status. Whereas no ROR2 effect was detected, ROR1 was found to contribute to cell-wall-penetration resistance, at least in the epidermis. Application of the actin agonist cytochalasin E promoted cell wall penetration by M. grisea in a dose-dependent manner, demonstrating an involvement of the actin cytoskeleton in penetration resistance.
15916182	In order to diversify the use of locally available agricultural byproducts from corn and rice, commercial sausages were prepared using defatted flour of corn germ (DFCG), and stabilized rice bran flour (SRBF) as substitute of the wheat flour in a ration of 30, 50 and 100% and 30% and 50% respectively, and were compared with commercial sausages which contains 3,00% of wheat flour. The sausages showed an increase in its protein content, from 15.68% to 17.70%. The content of dietetic fiber in the enriched sausages increased from 0.90% to 0.98% with DFCG and from 1,0 to 1,1% with SRBF. The stability of the sausages was evaluated by moisture and pH analysis during 60 days at freezing temperature (-16 degrees C), moisture values ranged from 59 to 62% in average and did not show any significant differences, pH values showed a constant behavior with minimum variations without significance (p < 0,05) during storage time. Measurement of color intensity by parameter "a" showed a higher tendency to red in the sausages with rice bran. The sensorial evaluation favored this study, since no statistically significant differences were found among the different sausages. In conclusion the results indicate that it is possible to substitute imported wheat flour by locally available byproducts from corn and rice in the preparation of sausages.
15918010	Chickpea is a staple protein source in many Asian and Middle Eastern countries. The seeds contain carotenoids such as beta-carotene, cryptoxanthin, lutein and zeaxanthin in amounts above the engineered beta-carotene-containing "golden rice" level. Thus, breeding for high carotenoid concentration in seeds is of nutritional, socio-economic, and economic importance. To study the genetics governing seed carotenoids in chickpea, we studied the relationship between seed weight and concentrations of beta-carotene and lutein by means of high-performance liquid chromatography in segregating progeny from a cross between an Israeli cultivar and wild Cicer reticulatum Ladiz. Seeds of the cross progeny varied with respect to their carotenoid concentration (heritability estimates ranged from 0.5 to 0.9), and a negative genetic correlation was found between mean seed weight and carotenoid concentration in the F(3). To determine the loci responsible for the genetic variation observed, the population was genotyped using 91 sequence tagged microsatellite site markers and two CytP450 markers to generate a genetic map consisting of nine linkage groups and a total length of 344.6 cM. Using quantitative data collected for beta-carotene and lutein concentration and seed weight of the seeds of the F(2) population, we were able to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) by interval mapping. At a LOD score of 2, four QTLs for beta-carotene concentration, a single QTL for lutein concentration and three QTLs for seed weight were detected. The results of this investigation may assist in improving the nutritional quality of chickpea.
15918034	Polyphenol oxidases (PPOs) are involved in the time-dependent darkening and discolouration of Asian noodles and other wheat end products. In this study, a doubled haploid (DH) population derived from Chara (moderately high PPO activity)/WW2449 (low PPO activity) was screened for PPO activity based on L-DOPA and L-tyrosine assays using whole seeds. Both these assays were significantly genetically correlated (r = 0.91) in measuring the PPO activity in this DH population. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) analysis utilising a skeleton map enabled us to identify a major QTL controlling PPO activity based on L-DOPA and L-tyrosine on the long arm of chromosome 2A. The simple sequence repeat (SSR) marker GWM294b explained over 82% of the line mean phenotypic variation from samples collected in both 2000 and 2003. Four SSR markers were validated for PPO linkage in genetically diverse backgrounds and proven to correctly predict the PPO activity in more than 92% of wheat lines. Physical mapping using deletion lines of Chinese Spring has confirmed the location of the GWM294b, GWM312 and WMC170 on chromosome 2AL, between deletion breakpoints 2AL-C to 0.85. In order to identify functional gene markers, data searches for alignments between rice BAC/PAC clones assembled on chromosome 1 and 4, chromosome 7, and (1) the wheat expressed sequence tags mapped in deletion bin (2AL-C to 0.85) and (2) the coding sequence of a previously cloned wheat PPO gene were made and found significant sequence similarities with the PPO gene or common central domain of tyrosinase. Available PPO gene sequences in the National Centre for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) database have revealed that there is a significant molecular diversity at the nucleotide and amino acid level in the wheat PPO genes.
15918718	The rate constants for the NCN + NO reaction have been measured by laser photolysis/laser-induced fluorescence technique in the temperature range of 254-353 K in the presence of He (40-600 Torr) and N2 (30-528 Torr) buffer gases. The NCN radical was produced from the photodissociation of NCN3 at 193 nm and monitored with a dye laser at 329.01 nm. The reaction was found to be strongly positive-pressure dependent with negative-temperature dependence, as was reported previously. The experimental data could be reasonably accounted for by dual-channel Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations based on the predicted potential-energy surface using the modified Gaussian-2 method. The reaction is predicted to occur via weak intermediates, cis- and trans-NCNNO, in the 2A" state which crosses with the 2A' state containing more stable cis- and trans-NCNNO isomers. The high barriers for the fragmentation of these isomers and their trapping in the 2A' state by collisional stabilization give rise to the observed positive-pressure dependence and negative-temperature effect. The predicted energy barrier for the fragmentation of the cis-NCNNO (2A') to CN + N2O also allows us to quantitatively account for the rate constant previously measured for the reverse process CN + N2O --> NCN + NO.
15918879	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants possess three homologous but distinct genes for cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1): these are OsGS1;1, OsGS1;2, and OsGS1;3. OsGS1;1 was expressed in all organs tested with higher expression in leaf blades, while OsGS1;2, and OsGS1;3 were expressed mainly in roots and spikelets, respectively. We characterized knockout mutants caused by insertion of endogenous retrotransposon Tos17 into the exon-8 (lines ND8037 and ND9801) or the exon-10 (line NC2327) of OsGS1;1. Mendelian segregation occurred in each progeny. Homozygously inserted mutants showed severe retardation in growth rate and grain filling when grown at normal nitrogen concentrations. Abnormal mRNA for GS1;1 was transcribed, and the GS1 protein and its activity in the leaf blades were barely detectable in these mutants. The glutamine pool in the roots and leaf blades of the mutants was lower than that of the wild type. Re-introduction of OsGS1;1 cDNA under the control of its own promoter into the mutants successfully complemented these phenotypes. Progeny where Tos17 was heterozygously inserted or deleted during segregation showed normal phenotypes. The results indicate that GS1;1 is important for normal growth and grain filling in rice; GS1;2 and GS1;3 were not able to compensate for GS1;1 function.
15918889	The indica subspecies of cultivated rice occupies the largest area of rice production in the world. However, a systematic analysis of cDNA sequences from the indica subspecies has not been performed. The aim of the present study was to collect and analyze the expressed sequence tags (ESTs) of indica rice on a large scale. A total of 39 208 raw sequences were generated from a normalized cDNA library prepared by use of 15 different tissues of the indica cultivar Minghui 63. After trimming, processing and analysis, 17 835 unique sequences were obtained, each of which presumably represents a unique gene. Of these sequences, 2663 were novel, and at least 70 were indica specific. Comparison of the Minghui 63 sequences with the ESTs/full-length cDNAs in GenBank revealed a large number of deletion/insertion/substitution (DIS) at both the inter- and intra-subspecific levels. The overall number of polymorphisms in the expressed sequences was higher in the inter-subspecific comparisons than in the intra-subspecific comparisons. However, the extent of DIS-based polymorphism was highly variable among different rice varieties. In total, 15 726 unique sequences, including 697 novel sequences, were assigned to regions where large numbers of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for agronomic traits had been detected previously. These results may be useful for developing new molecular markers for genetic mapping, detecting allelic polymorphisms associated with phenotypic variations between rice varieties, and facilitating QTL cloning by providing the starting points for candidate-gene identification.
15921605	To study the prevalence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) like virus in animals at a live animal market of Guanzhou in 2004 before and after culling of wild animal action taken by the local authority, in order to predict the re-emerging of SARS from animal originals in this region. Animals at live animal market were sampled for rectal and throat swabs in triplicate. A single step realtime reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) diagnostic kit was performed for screening SARS-CoV like virus, the manual nested RT- PCR and DNA sequencing were performed for confirmation. Only specimens which tested positive for both of the N and P genes by nested RT-PCR were scored as positive. In 31 animals sampled in January 5 2004 before culling of wild animals at Guangdong Province, including 20 cats (Felis catus), 5 red fox (Vulpes vulpes) and 6 Lesser rice field rats (Rattus losea), 8 (25.8%) animals were tested positive for SARS-CoV like virus by RT-PCR methods, of which 4 cats, 3 red fox and one Lesser rice field rats were included. However, two weeks after culling of animals and disinfection of the market were implemented, in 119 animals sampled in January 20 2004, including 6 rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus), 13 cats, 46 red jungle fowl (Gallus gallus), 13 spotbill duck (Anas platyrhynchos), 10 greylag goose (Anser anser), 31 Chinese francolin (Franclinus pintadeanus), only rectal swab from one greylag goose was tested positive for SARS-CoV like virus. Furthermore, in 102 animals that including 14 greylag gooses, 3 cats, 5 rabbits, 9 spotbill duck (Anaspoecilorhyncha), 2 Chinese francolin (Franclinus pintadeanus), 8 common pheasant (Phasianus colchicus), 6 pigeons, 9 Chinese muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi), 19 wild boar (Sus scrofa), 16 Lesser rice field rats, 5 dogs, 1 mink (Mustela vison), 3 goats, 2 green peafowl (Pavo muticus) sampled in April, May, June, July, August and November, only rectal swab from one pig was tested positive. However, of 12 and 10 palm civets sampled in November and December including five of which had been at the live animals market for 2 days, none of them was tested positive. This findings revealed that animals being sampled in April, May, June, July, August and November of 2004, only one rectal swab from a pig was tested positive as SARS-CoV like virus, much lower than the results from the previous year, suggesting that the possibility of re-emerging of human infection from animal origins is low for the winter of 2004-2005.
15921713	New androstane brassinosteroids with 17beta-ester groups - butyrates, heptafluorobutyrates, and laurates (4-18) - were prepared. Brassinolide activity was evaluated using both the bean second internode bioassay and the rice lamina inclination test. Brassinosteroid 16 was found to be the most active by the bean second internode bioassay. This activity in the bean second internode bioassay corresponded with the field yield, while the RLIT bioassay does not.
15922577	Surface characteristics of untreated and solvent extracted rice straw and intact rice plant stem and sheath tissue have been investigated using reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR-ATR), electrokinetic analysis (EKA), and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Klason lignin and Kappa numbers were determined according to TAPPI standard methods. Sohxlet extractions were performed with hexanes, ethyl acetate, chloroform, ethanol-toluene and benzene-ethanol azeotropes. The FTIR reflectance spectra showed differences between the untreated sheath and stem tissues. It was found that the functional groups of the stem interior tissues were masked by another substance, which is proposed to be potassium oxalate monohydrate. This mineral salt, readily removed by water-washing, was affected by the solvent extractions with varying results. The extracted amounts ranged from 1 to 7%. While lipid removal was detectable by the FTIR reflectance method, the streaming potential method showed only slight differences between the curves representing the zeta potential (mV) as a function of pH of the untreated versus extracted samples. Reduced values of the iso-electric points were observed for the extracted samples as compared to the untreated rice straw, indicative of more acidic surface characteristics.
15922806	Fingerlings of the silver catfish (Rhamdia quelen) were exposed to three herbicides widely used in rice culture in south Brazil: clomazone, quinclorac, and metsulfuron methyl. LC50 was determined and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was evaluated in brain and muscle tissue of fish exposed to different herbicide concentrations after 96h (short term). The LC50 value (nominal concentration) was 7.32 mg/L for clomazone and 395 mg/L for quinclorac, but was not obtained for metsulfuron-methyl since all fingerlings survived the highest concentration of 1200 mg/L. Brain and muscle AChE activity in unexposed fish were 17.9 and 9.08 micromol/min/g protein, respectively. Clomazone significantly inhibited AChE activity in both tissues, achieving maximal inhibition of about 83% in brain and 89% in muscle tissue. In contrast, quinclorac and metsulfuron methyl caused increases in enzyme activity in the brain (98 and 179%, respectively) and inhibitions in muscle tissue (88 and 56%, respectively). This study demonstrated short-term effects of exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of rice field herbicides on AChE activity in brain and muscle tissue of silver catfish.
15923070	Soil-to-plant transfer factors (TF) of radiocaesium (137Cs) were determined under field condition for grassy vegetation grown in Bangladesh at contaminated land in the Atomic Energy Research Establishment (AERE) campus. TF values for rice, grass and grassy/root vegetations grown in the same type of soil were also measured under pot condition. TF values of 137Cs for grassy vegetation (2.4 x 10(-2) -4.2 x 10(-2) with an average of 3.1 x 10(-2) +/-0.005) obtained under field condition were slightly lower than the values for grass and grassy/root vegetations (2.9 x 10(-2) -6.6 x 10(-2) with an average of 4.8 x 10(-2) +/-0.01 for grass and grassy vegetations and 2.3 x 10(-2) -5.6 x 10(-2) with an average of 4.0 x 10(-2) +/-0.009 for root vegetations, respectively) obtained under pot condition. However, TF values (9.0 x 10(-3) -2.6 x 10(-2) with an average of 1.9 x 10(-2) +/-0.004) obtained for rice were about a factor of 4 lower than the values obtained for grass and grassy/root vegetations. When the properties of the AERE soils as input parameters were used in the soil-plant transfer model of Absalom, the estimated TF values (4.5 x 10(-2) -6.7 x 10(-2) with an average of 5.3 x 10(-2) +/-0.006) were consistent with the measured values obtained for grass and grassy vegetations under pot condition, however, the model overestimates the TF values for rice.
15923324	Phosphoinositides (PIs) are signaling molecules that regulate cellular events including vesicle targeting and interactions between membrane and cytoskeleton. Phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns)(4,5)P(2) is one of the best characterized PIs; studies in which PtdIns(4,5)P(2) localization or concentration is altered lead to defects in the actin cytoskeleton and exocytosis. PtdIns(4,5)P(2) and its derivative Ins(1,4,5)P(3) accumulate in salt, cold, and osmotically stressed plants. PtdIns(4,5)P(2) signaling is terminated through the action of inositol polyphosphate phosphatases and PI phosphatases including supressor of actin mutation (SAC) domain phosphatases. In some cases, these phosphatases also act on Ins(1,4,5)P(3). We have characterized the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) sac9 mutants. The SAC9 protein is different from other SAC domain proteins in several ways including the presence of a WW protein interaction domain within the SAC domain. The rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis SAC9 protein sequences are similar, but no apparent homologs are found in nonplant genomes. High-performance liquid chromatography studies show that unstressed sac9 mutants accumulate elevated levels of PtdIns(4,5)P(2) and Ins(1,4,5)P(3) as compared to wild-type plants. The sac9 mutants have characteristics of a constitutive stress response, including dwarfism, closed stomata, and anthocyanin accumulation, and they overexpress stress-induced genes and overaccumulate reactive-oxygen species. These results suggest that the SAC9 phosphatase is involved in modulating phosphoinsitide signals during the stress response.
15924949	We studied the suitability of municipal solid waste compost (MSWC) application to submerged rice paddies in the perspective of metal pollution hazards associated with such materials. Experiments were conducted during the wet seasons of 1997, 1998 and 1999 on rice grown under submerged condition, at the Agriculture Experimental Farm, Calcutta University at Baruipur, West Bengal, India. The treatments consisted of control, no input; MSWC, at 60 kgNha(-1); well decomposed cow manure (DCM), at 60 kgNha(-1); MSWC (30 kgNha(-1)) +Urea (30 kgNha(-1)); DCM (30 kgNha(-1)) +U (30 kgNha(-1)) and Fertilizer, (at 60:30:30 NPK kgha(-1) through urea, single superphosphate and muriate of potash respectively). Soil microbial biomass-C (MBC), MBC as percentage of organic-C (ratio index value, RIV), urease and acid phosphatase activities were higher in DCM than MSWC-treated soils, due to higher amount of biogenic organic materials like water soluble organic carbon, carbohydrate and mineralizable nitrogen in the former. The studied parameters were higher when urea was integrated with DCM or MSWC, compared to their single applications. Soil MBC, urease and acid phosphatase activities periodically declined up to 60 day after transplanting (DAT) and then increased after crop harvest. The heavy metals in MSWC did not detrimentally influence MBC, urease and acid phosphatase activities of soil. In the event of long term MSWC application, changes in soil quality parameters should be monitored regularly, since heavy metals once entering into soil persist over a long period.
1592502
1592503
15926052	A sensitive and accurate analytical method for the determination of ochratoxin A (OTA) in rice, based on extraction with phosphate-buffered saline/methanol, an immunoaffinity column (IAC) for clean-up, and high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection (HPLC-FD), is described. The limit of quantification of the proposed method was 0.05 microg kg(-1). Recovery of OTA from rice samples spiked at 0.05 microg kg(-1) was 92%, with a within-day RSD of 5.4%. The proposed method was applied to 42 rice samples from Portugal and the presence of OTA was found in six samples at concentrations ranging from 0.09 to 3.52 microg kg(-1). The identification of OTA was confirmed by methyl ester derivatization and then HPLC analysis. The daily intake of OTA by the Portuguese population was also estimated.
15926540	In this study, the volatilization of five pesticides applied to an artificial flooded paddy field was assessed using the theoretical profile shape (TPS) and the integrate horizontal flux (IHF) techniques. The dataset derived was utilized to improve the volatilization routine of the rice water quality (RICEWQ) model. The masses of pesticides ethoprophos, procymidone, metalaxyl, chlorpyrifos, and chlorpyrifos methyl volatilized from paddy water and their concentrations in paddy water were determined for a period of 6 d after application. The highest and lowest volatilization losses were observed for chlorpyrifos and metalaxyl, respectively, accounting for 3.3% and 0.03% of their initially applied amount. A rapid pesticide dissipation was evident in paddy water during the study period. The RICEWQ model was used to simulate the fate of pesticides in the artificial paddy system. The Kvolat, an empiric coefficient used by the model as an input parameter, was calculated for all pesticides through model calibration. RICEWQ simulated well the fate of pesticides in paddy water. A significant regression correlation between Henry's law constant (Hk) and Kvolat of the studied compounds was established which could facilitate the parametrization of the model for describing pesticide volatilization.
15927065	This study analyzes metabolomic data from a rice tillering (branching) developmental profile to define a set of biomarker metabolites that reliably captures the metabolite variance of this plant developmental event, and which has potential as a basis for rapid comparative screening of metabolite profiles in relation to change in development, environment, or genotype. Changes in metabolism, and in metabolite profile, occur as a part of, and in response to, developmental events. These changes are influenced by the developmental program, as well as external factors impinging on it. Many samples are needed, however, to characterize quantitative aspects of developmental variation. A biomarker metabolite set could benefit screening of quantitative plant developmental variation by providing some of the advantages of both comprehensive metabolomic studies and focused studies of particular metabolites or pathways. An appropriate set of biomarker metabolites to represent the plant developmental period including the initiation and early growth of rice tillering (branching) was obtained by: (1) determining principal components of the comprehensive metabolomic profile, then (2) identifying clusters of metabolites representing variation in loading on the first three principal components, and finally (3) selecting individual metabolites from these clusters that were known to be common among diverse organisms. The resultant set of 21 biomarker metabolites was reliable (P = 0.001) in capturing 83% of the metabolite variation in development. Furthermore, a subset of the biomarker metabolites was successful (P = 0.05) in correctly predicting metabolite change in response to environment as determined in another rice metabolomics study. The ability to define a set of biomarker metabolites that reliably captures the metabolite variance of a plant developmental event was established. The biomarker metabolites are all commonly present in diverse organisms, so studies of their quantitative relationships can provide comparative information concerning metabolite profiles in relation to change in plant development, environment, or genotype.
15927728	The satiety values of six breakfast items commonly consumed in India were determined on the basis of area under the curve. A repeated measures design was used wherein energy intake, hunger, and satiety scores were assessed for one rice-based, three wheat-based and a rice-pulse fermented preparation, using white bread as the reference. Subjects were provided equi-caloric portions of the six breakfast items on separate occasions, and satiety ratings were recorded every 15 min over a 120 min period, after which time they were free to consume whatever they desired. Satiety scores were in the order of fermented cereal-pulse preparation> savoury broken wheat preparation>whole wheat flour flat bread>savoury semolina preparation> savoury rice flakes preparation>white bread standard. Among the various factors examined for their influence on satiety scores, fibre content, energy density and cooked weight of the food items positively influenced satiety scores. Neither fat nor carbohydrate content showed any correlation with satiety scores. These data indicate that isoenergetic portions of various foods influence satiety to different extents. Thus results suggest that consumption of high protein, high fibre and foods with greater water/volume leading to low energy density may be effective in delaying the return of hunger.
15928013	Petunias (Petunia hybrida cv. 'Mitchell') accumulate free proline (Pro) under drought-stress conditions. It is therefore believed that Pro acts as an osmoprotectant in plants subjected to drought conditions. Petunia plants were transformed by Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase genes (AtP5CS from Arabidopsis thaliana L. or OsP5CS from Oryza sativa L.). The transgenic plants accumulated Pro and their drought tolerance was tested. The Pro content amounted to 0.57-1.01% of the total amino acids in the transgenic plants, or 1.5-2.6 times that in wild-type plants grown under normal conditions. The transgenic plant lines tolerated 14 d of drought stress, which confirms that both P5CS transgenes had full functionality. Exogenous L-Pro treatment caused the plants to accumulate Pro; plants treated with 5 mM L-Pro accumulated up to 18 times more free Pro than untreated plants. Exogenous L-Pro restricted the growth of wild-type petunias more than that of Arabidopsis plants. The capacity for free Pro accumulation might depend on the plant species. The growth of petunia plants was influenced not only by the Pro concentration in the plants, but by the ratio of the Pro content to the total amino acids, because the growth of the transgenic petunia plants appeared normal.
15930447	Indonesia's economic crisis of late 1990s lowered consumption of micronutrient-rich foods, which increased the prevalence of micronutrient deficiencies, including anemia. As a postcrisis response, 5 nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) implemented Food for Work (FFW) programs to protect food consumption levels and nutritional status by providing rice, sometimes combined with oil and/or pinto beans. An independent evaluation assessed the effect of the FFW programs on nutrition outcomes, particularly anemia. A quasi-experimental design was used in which 1500 beneficiary and 1500 control households were randomly selected and followed in each of 3 urban and 2 rural sites. Baseline data were collected before program implementation and subsequently at approximately 6-mo intervals for 2.5 y. The poor were found to be appropriately targeted, and program participation ranged from 4 to 18 mo. The proportion of households with debts ranged from 32 to 70%; although it was higher among beneficiaries than controls, it increased among controls, but not beneficiaries. However, only among urban poor mothers in Surabaya were the odds of anemia at endline lower when participating in the FFW program (0.60, 95%CI [0.40-0.89]). Other risk factors for anemia in mothers and children included nutritional status (anemia at baseline, low BMI, receipt of vitamin A capsule, child age) and socioeconomic status (maternal education, having official residency in the area, income level). Thus, postcrisis FFW programs had limited effect on anemia, the main identified nutritional problem. Closer attention is required to the potential for affecting nutritional outcomes through FFW, including food aid quality and quantity and complementary nonfood interventions. Micronutrient deficiencies should be addressed directly via supplements and fortified foods.
1593147	Twenty cases of eating epilepsy have been studied over a period of 5 years (1985-1989). Males outnumbered females (4:1). Heavy meal comprising conventional Indian diet (viz, rice, vegetables, etc), was found to be the most important provocating factor (14 out of 20 cases). The attacks occurred at lunch time in most cases (15). Thirteen cases had generalised seizures. Electro-encephalogram showed focal changes in 10 cases, generalised changes in 6 cases, while 4 cases had normal electro-encephalogram. Computerised tomography scan was normal in all the cases (7) when it was done.
15932249	Transgenic plant cell cultures offer a number of advantages over alternative host expression systems, but so far relatively low product concentrations have been achieved. In this study, transgenic rice cells are used in a two-compartment membrane bioreactor (CELLine 350, Integra Biosciences) for the production of recombinant alpha-1-antitrypsin (rAAT). Expression of rAAT is controlled by the rice alpha-amylase (RAmy3D) promoter, which is induced in the absence of sugar. The extracellular product is retained in the bioreactor's relatively small cell compartment, thereby increasing product concentration. Due to the packed nature of the cell aggregates in the cell compartment, a clarified product solution can be withdrawn from the bioreactor. Active rAAT reached levels of 100-247 mg/L (4-10% of the total extracellular protein) in the cell compartment at 5-6 days postinduction, and multiple inductions of the RAmy3D promoter were demonstrated.
15932261	Rice hulls, a complex lignocellulosic material with high lignin (15.38 +/- 0.2%) and ash (18.71 +/- 0.01%) content, contain 35.62 +/- 0.12% cellulose and 11.96 +/- 0.73% hemicellulose and has the potential to serve as a low-cost feedstock for production of ethanol. Dilute H2SO4 pretreatments at varied temperature (120-190 degrees C) and enzymatic saccharification (45 degrees C, pH 5.0) were evaluated for conversion of rice hull cellulose and hemicellulose to monomeric sugars. The maximum yield of monomeric sugars from rice hulls (15%, w/v) by dilute H2SO4 (1.0%, v/v) pretreatment and enzymatic saccharification (45 degrees C, pH 5.0, 72 h) using cellulase, beta-glucosidase, xylanase, esterase, and Tween 20 was 287 +/- 3 mg/g (60% yield based on total carbohydrate content). Under this condition, no furfural and hydroxymethyl furfural were produced. The yield of ethanol per L by the mixed sugar utilizing recombinant Escherichia colistrain FBR 5 from rice hull hydrolyzate containing 43.6 +/- 3.0 g fermentable sugars (glucose, 18.2 +/- 1.4 g; xylose, 21.4 +/- 1.1 g; arabinose, 2.4 +/- 0.3 g; galactose, 1.6 +/- 0.2 g) was 18.7 +/- 0.6 g (0.43 +/- 0.02 g/g sugars obtained; 0.13 +/- 0.01 g/g rice hulls) at pH 6.5 and 35 degrees C. Detoxification of the acid- and enzyme-treated rice hull hydrolyzate by overliming (pH 10.5, 90 degrees C, 30 min) reduced the time required for maximum ethanol production (17 +/- 0.2 g from 42.0 +/- 0.7 g sugars per L) by the E. coli strain from 64 to 39 h in the case of separate hydrolysis and fermentation and increased the maximum ethanol yield (per L) from 7.1 +/- 2.3 g in 140 h to 9.1 +/- 0.7 g in 112 h in the case of simultaneous saccharification and fermentation.
15934133
15934636	Fasciolosis, caused by Fasciola gigantica, presents major disease and production problems, particularly in the rice producing areas of South and South-East Asia. In Nepal, buffaloes are commonly stall-fed and the most usual fodder is rice straw, which is produced in large quantities in the area. Here we describe a relatively simple way of controlling fasciolosis in these animals. We demonstrate that infectious metacercariae of F. gigantica are concentrated in the bottom part of the rice straw and that infection can be controlled by cutting the rice straw in half, and then feeding the parasite free top half of the straw first. The bottom part of the rice straw should ideally be stored for at least 4 months after harvest to allow the parasites to die before it is used as fodder.
15935683	(14)C in rice grains is a useful tracer of atmospheric (14)C(CO(2)). (14)C measurement in rice grains for 17 years during 1982--1999 reveals the following. There is negative correlation between Delta(14)C and the population densities of localities in Japan. Under-populated areas in the northern area of Japan and Okinawa remained clean in the 1990s. The (14)C(CO(2)) decline rates at those areas are near to that of Shauinsland. A latitudinal effect due to Chinese nuclear tests is observed in 1982. Small Seuss effects is observed at the middle latitudes in East Asia after 1995.
15936797	The uptake of atrazine by rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) through plant roots from nutrient solution was investigated in the presence and absence of Cd2+ over an exposure period of four weeks. It was found that both atrazine and Cd2+ were toxic to rice seedlings. Both shoot and root biomasses decreased when the seedlings were exposed to increasing atrazine or Cd2+ concentrations in nutrient solutions. In the absence of Cd2+, a linear relationship was observed between atrazine concentrations in roots/shoots and in external solution, and more atrazine is concentrated in roots than in shoots. When atrazine and Cd2+ concentrations in solution were maintained at mole ratio of 1:1, the accumulation of atrazine by seedlings was less and the seedling biomass was greater than found with other ratios, such as 1:2 or 2:1. Therefore, the formation of the complex between atrazine and Cd2+ reduced the individual toxicities. Analyses of data with the quasi-equilibrium partition model indicated that the atrazine concentrations in rice seedlings and external water were close to equilibrium. In the presence of Cd2+, however, the measured bioconcentration factor (BCF) of atrazine with roots and shoots were considerably greater. The latter findings resulted presumably from the atrazine-Cd2+ complex formation that led to a large apparent BCF.
15936939	The sorption of Cd(II) from aqueous solution by rice husk, a surplus agricultural byproduct was investigated. Some simple and low-cost chemical modifications resulted in increasing the sorption capacity of raw rice husk (RRH) from 8.58 mg/g to 11.12, 20.24, 16.18 mg/g and reducing the equilibrium time from 10 h of RRH to 2, 4 and 1 h for epichlorohydrin treated rice husk (ERH), NaOH treated rice husk (NRH), sodium bicarbonate treated rice husk (NCRH), respectively. The effect of pH, sorption kinetics and isotherms were studied in batch experiments. Good correlation coefficient was obtained for pseudo second-order kinetic model, which agreed with chemisorption as the rate-limiting mechanism. Sorption isotherm test showed that equilibrium sorption data were better represented by Langmuir model than the Freundlich model. The highly efficient low cost and the rapid uptake of Cd(II) by NCRH indicated that it could be an excellent alternative for the removal of heavy metal by sorption process.
15937112	Neonicotinoids, such as imidacloprid, are nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists with potent insecticidal activity. Since its introduction in the early 1990s, imidacloprid has become one of the most extensively used insecticides for both crop protection and animal health applications. As with other classes of insecticides, resistance to neonicotinoids is a significant threat and has been identified in several pest species, including the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, a major rice pest in many parts of Asia. In this study, radioligand binding experiments have been conducted with whole-body membranes prepared from imidacloprid-susceptible and imidacloprid-resistant strains of N. lugens. The results reveal a much higher level of [3H]imidacloprid-specific binding to the susceptible strain than to the resistant strain (16.7 +/- 1.0 and 0.34 +/- 0.21 fmol/mg of protein, respectively). With the aim of understanding the molecular basis of imidacloprid resistance, five nAChR subunits (Nlalpha1-Nlalpha4 and Nlbeta1) have been cloned from N. lugens.A comparison of nAChR subunit genes from imidacloprid-sensitive and imidacloprid-resistant populations has identified a single point mutation at a conserved position (Y151S) in two nAChR subunits, Nlalpha1 and Nlalpha3. A strong correlation between the frequency of the Y151S point mutation and the level of resistance to imidacloprid has been demonstrated by allele-specific PCR. By expression of hybrid nAChRs containing N. lugens alpha and rat beta2 subunits, evidence was obtained that demonstrates that mutation Y151S is responsible for a substantial reduction in specific [3H]imidacloprid binding. This study provides direct evidence for the occurrence of target-site resistance to a neonicotinoid insecticide.
15937131	To study the possible impact of alien introgression on a recipient plant genome, we examined >6000 unbiased genomic loci of three stable rice recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from intergeneric hybridization between rice (cv. Matsumae) and a wild relative (Zizania latifolia Griseb.) followed by successive selfing. Results from amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis showed that, whereas the introgressed Zizania DNA comprised <0.1% of the genome content in the RILs, extensive and genome-wide de novo variations occurred in up to 30% of the analyzed loci for all three lines studied. The AFLP-detected changes were validated by DNA gel-blot hybridization and/or sequence analysis of genomic loci corresponding to a subset of the differentiating AFLP fragments. A BLAST analysis revealed that the genomic variations occurred in diverse sequences, including protein-coding genes, transposable elements, and sequences of unknown functions. Pairwise sequence comparison of selected loci between a RIL and its rice parent showed that the variations represented either base substitutions or small insertion/deletions. Genome variations were detected in all 12 rice chromosomes, although their distribution was uneven both among and within chromosomes. Taken together, our results imply that even cryptic alien introgression can be highly mutagenic to a recipient plant genome.
15937722	Pathogenesis-related proteins (PR), including beta-1,3-glucanases may provide the first line of defense against fungal pathogens. Many PR proteins are activated by salicylic acid (SA), which acts as an endogenous signal. We have previously isolated seven members of the beta-1,3-glucanase gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare). In this paper, we characterized the beta-1,3-glucanase isoenzyme GIII for SA-responsive elements in the GIII gene promoter. A series of deletion mutations of the promoter were fused to the reporter gene beta-glucuronidase (gus). The GUS activity was analyzed in rice calli (Oryza sativa L.) in response to SA. A deletion fragment between -362 and +106 bp showed the highest level of GUS activity in these assays. This promoter fused with gus was further introduced into rice plants for stable transformation. Histochemical staining and fluorometric quantitation of GUS activity in leaves of transgenic plants revealed prominent GUS expression after SA induction. RNA analysis by Northern blotting confirmed the importance of this region, indicating that cis-acting elements required for SA-inducible expression exist within 362 bp upstream from the transcriptional start site.
15937724	Coleoptiles of rice (Oryza sativa L.) show a spontaneous (automorphic) curvature toward the caryopsis under microgravity conditions. The possible involvement of the reorientation of cortical microtubules in automorphic curvature was studied in rice coleoptiles grown on a three-dimensional clinostat. When rice seedlings that had been grown in the normal gravitational field were transferred to the clinostat in the dark, cortical microtubules of epidermal cells in the dorsal side of the coleoptiles oriented more transversely than the ventral side within 0.5 h. The rotation on the clinostat also increased the cell wall extensibility in the dorsal side and decreased the extensibility in the ventral side, and induced automorphic curvature. The reorientation of cortical microtubules preceded the changes in the cell wall extensibility and the curvature. The irradiation of rice seedlings with white light from above inhibited microtubule reorientation and changes in the cell wall extensibility, as well as curvature of coleoptiles. Also, colchicine, applied to the bending region of coleoptiles, partially inhibited the automorphic curvature. These results suggest that reorientation of cortical microtubules is involved in causing automorphic curvature in rice coleoptiles on the clinostat.
15939270	The potential of using several agricultural by-products as supplements of sawdust substrate for the production of edible mushroom Hericium was evaluated using seven Hericium species. All the tested supplements (rice bran, wheat bran, barley bran, Chinese cabbage, egg shell, and soybean powder) were found to be suitable for the mycelial growth of all the tested species. In mycelial growth, soybean powder was the best supplement for Hericium americanum, Hericium coralloides, and Hericium erinaceum while barley bran was the best for Hericium alpestre, Hericium laciniatum, and Hericium erinaceus. For Hericium abietis, rice bran and Chinese cabbage was the best. The possibility of mushroom production on oak sawdust substrate with 20% rice bran supplement was demonstrated with H. coralloides, H. americanum, H. erinaceus, and H. erinaceum which showed 26-70% biological efficiency. Our results also showed that strain selection is important to improve biological efficiency and mushroom yield in Hericium cultivation.
15939553	The origin recognition complex (ORC) protein plays a critical role in DNA replication through binding to sites (origins) where replication commences. The protein is composed of six subunits (ORC1 to 6) in animals and yeasts. Our knowledge of the ORC protein in plants is, however, much less complete. We have performed cDNA cloning and characterization of ORC subunits in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) in order to facilitate study of plant DNA replication mechanisms. Our previous report provided a description of a gene, ORC1 (OsORC1), that encodes one of the protein subunits. The present report extends this initial analysis to include the genes that encode four other rice ORC subunits, OsORC2, 3, 4 and 5. Northern hybridization analyses demonstrated the presence of abundant transcripts for all OsORC subunits in shoot apical meristems (SAM) and cultured cells, but not in mature leaves. Interestingly, only OsORC5 showed high levels of expression in organs in which cell proliferation is not active, such as flag leaves, the ears and the non-tip roots. The pattern of expression of OsORC2 also differed from other OsORC subunits. When cell proliferation was temporarily halted for 6-10 days by removal of sucrose from the growth medium, expression of OsORC1, OsORC3, OsORC4 and OsORC5 was substantially reduced. However, the level of expression of OsORC2 remained constant. We suggest from these results that expression of OsORC1, 3, 4 and 5 are correlated with cell proliferation, but the expression of OsORC2 is not.
15939590	The study reports the effects of irrigation of a sodic soil with post methanation effluent (PME) of a distillery. Impact of long term effluent irrigation in the field (10 years) and short term effluent irrigation using different doses of PME in the laboratory (30 days) was studied in combination with three bioamendments i.e. farmyard manure, brassica residues and rice husk. Impact on various soil properties like EC, pH, total organic carbon (TOC), total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN), available phosphorus, exchangeable K, Na, Ca, Cl, microbial population and soil enzyme activities were studied. Long term application of PME proved useful in significantly increasing TOC, TKN, K, P and soil enzymatic activities in the soil but tended to build up harmful concentration of Na, that could be chelated by bioamendments. In short terms studies, application of 50% PME along with bioamendments proved to be the most useful in improving the properties of sodic soil and also favoured successful germination and improved seedling growth of pearl millet.
15940220
15940510	Two genes related to extremely early heading were identified in populations derived from crosses between Hoshinoyume, a variety adapted to the northernmost limit of rice cultivation (Hokkaido), and Nipponbare, a variety adapted to the temperate region of Japan. The segregations for heading date clearly revealed that a two-gene model determined the extremely early heading in the F(2) and BC(1)F(1) populations under natural field conditions in Hokkaido. Using molecular markers corresponding to ten known quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for heading date, we carried out QTL analysis in the BC(1)F(1) population and detected two QTLs, qDTH-7-1 and qDTH-7-2, both on chromosome 7, and observed epistatic interaction between them. We conclude that the recessive alleles of these two genes contribute to extremely early heading for the adaptation to Hokkaido environment and to stable rice production in Hokkaido. The relationships between the two QTLs identified in this study and known QTLs are discussed.
15940868	Research in lateral root (LR) development mainly focuses on the role of auxin. This article reports the effect of cytokinins (kinetin and trans-zeatin) on LR formation in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Our results showed that cytokinin has an inhibitory effect on LR initiation and stimulatory effect on LR elongation. Both KIN and ZEA at a concentration of 1 microM and above completely inhibited lateral root primordium (LRP) formation. The inhibitory effect of cytokinin on LR initiation required a continuous presence of KIN or ZEA in the growth solution. Cytokinin did not show any inhibitory effect on LR emergence from the seminal root once LRPs had been formed. The LRPs that developed in cytokinin-free solution can emerge normally in the solution containing inhibitory concentration (1 microM) of KIN and ZEA. The KIN and ZEA treatment dramatically stimulated LR elongation at all the concentrations tested. Maximum LR elongation was observed at a concentration of 0.01 microM KIN and 0.001 microM ZEA. The epidermal cell length increased significantly in LRs of cytokinin treated seedlings compared to those of untreated control. This result indicates that the stimulation of LR elongation by cytokinin is due to increased cell length. Exogenously applied auxin counteracted the effect of cytokinin on LR initiation and LR elongation, suggesting that cytokinin acts on LR elongation through an auxin dependent pathway.
15941327	Six strains of Fusarium verticillioides, two of F. oxysporum, one strain of F. proliferatum, and a strain of an unidentified species were cultured on maize patties and rice and evaluated for their ability to simultaneously produce fumonisin B (FB) and C (FC) series analogues. Fumonisins were quantified by LC-MS-MS using positive ion electrospray ionization. FC1 provided characteristic fragment ions at m/z 690, 672, 654, 532, 514, and 338 corresponding to sequential loss of H2O and tricarboxylic acid moieties from the alkyl backbone, while FC3 and FC4 provided equivalent product ions 16 and 32 amu lower than the corresponding FC1 fragments, respectively. All isolates cultured on maize produced FC4. All isolates except for that of F. proliferatum also produced FC1, and three of the six strains of F. verticillioides produced FC3. All isolates except those of F. oxysporum produced detectable amounts of FB1, FB2, and FB3. Isolates that produced fumonisin B analogues produced at least 10 fold more of the B series analogues than they did of the C series analogues. The results confirm that at least some strains of F. oxysporum produce FC, but not FB, fumonisin analogues and also suggest that the genetics and physiological regulation of fumonisin production may be more complicated than previously envisaged since some strains of F. verticillioides and F. proliferatum as well as the strain of the unidentified species can simultaneously produce both FB and FC analogues.
15941353	Several recent articles have reported a significant antioxidant capacity of cereal products, determined in methanolic and ethanolic extracts. The aim of this work was to conduct an assessment of the antioxidant capacity of cereals using both chemical and in vitro digestive enzymatic extraction of antioxidants. Ferric reducing power (FRAP) and free radical scavenging capacity (DPPH) methods were used to determine the antioxidant capacity in wheat flour, bread, raw and boiled rice, wheat bran, and oat bran. The most efficient antioxidant extraction was achieved by using successively acidic methanol/water (50:50 v/v, pH 2) and acetone/water (70:30 v/v). The antioxidant capacity in these extracts ranged from 1.1 to 4.4 micromol Trolox/g dw. A significant amount of hydrolyzable phenolics with a high antioxidant capacity (from 5 to 108 micromol Trolox/g dw) was found in the residues of this aqueous-organic extraction. The antioxidant capacities of these nonextractable polyphenols are usually ignored in the literature, although they may have an antioxidant role in the gastrointestinal tract, especially after colonic fermentation, and may be fermentated to active metabolites. On the other hand, in vitro digestive enzymatic extracts obtained by enzymatic treatments that mimic conditions in the gastrointestinal tract showed that the amount of antioxidants released by the cereal matrix into the human intestine may be higher than the one that can be expected from measurements in the usual aqueous-organic extracts.
15941394	Elicitor-triggered transient membrane potential changes and Ca2+ influx through the plasma membrane are thought to be important during defense signaling in plants. However, the molecular bases for the Ca2+ influx and its regulation remain largely unknown. Here we tested effects of overexpression as well as retrotransposon (Tos17)-insertional mutagenesis of the rice two-pore channel 1 (OsTPC1), a putative voltage-gated Ca(2+)-permeable channel, on a proteinaceous fungal elicitor-induced defense responses in rice cells. The overexpressor showed enhanced sensitivity to the elicitor to induce oxidative burst, activation of a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), OsMPK2, as well as hypersensitive cell death. On the contrary, a series of defense responses including the cell death and activation of the MAPK were severely suppressed in the insertional mutant, which was complemented by overexpression of the wild-type gene. These results suggest that the putative Ca(2+)-permeable channel determines sensitivity to the elicitor and plays a role as a key regulator of elicitor-induced defense responses, activation of MAPK cascade and hypersensitive cell death.
15941402	We have isolated a floury endosperm-4 (flo4) rice mutant with a floury-white endosperm but a normal outer portion. Scanning electron microscopic analysis revealed that this abnormal endosperm consisted of loosely packed starch granules. The mutant phenotype was generated by T-DNA insertion into the fifth intron of the OsPPDKB gene encoding pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK). Plants containing flo4-1 produced no OsPPDKB transcript or the OsPPDKB protein in their developing kernels and leaves. We obtained two additional alleles, flo4-2 and flo4-3, that also showed the same white-core endosperm phenotype. The flo4 kernels weighed about 6% less than wild-type ones. Starch contents in both kernel types were similar, but the total protein content was slightly higher in the mutant kernels. Moreover, lipid contents were significantly increased in the flo4 kernels. Expression analyses demonstrated that the cytosolic mRNA of OsPPDKB was induced in the reproductive organs after pollination, and greatly increased until about 10 days after fertilization. This mRNA was localized mainly in the endosperm, aleurone, and scutellum of the developing kernel. Our results suggest that cytosolic PPDK functions in rice to modulate carbon metabolism during grain filling.
15941403	Virus diseases are widespread threats for crop production, which can, in many cases, be controlled efficiently by exploiting naturally occurring resistance. Barley, an important cereal species of the Triticeae, carries two genes, rym4 and rym5, which are located in the telomeric region of chromosome 3HL and confer recessive resistance to various strains of the Barley yellow mosaic virus complex. The barley 'eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E' (Hv-eIF4E) was identified as a candidate for resistance gene function by physical mapping on a 650 kb contig. It is located in a chromosomal region characterized by suppressed recombination, in a position collinear to its homologue on rice chromosome 1L. Sequence diversity in the coding region of Hv-eIF4E, as calculated from a collection of unrelated barley accessions, revealed non-silent single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in four of its five exons. Stable transformation of a resistant barley genotype with a genomic fragment or a full-length cDNA of Hv-eIF4E derived from susceptible cultivars induced susceptibility to Barley mild mosaic virus. Moreover, the identification of SNPs diagnostic for rym4 and rym5 provides evidence that these are two alleles, which confer different resistance specificities. These findings demonstrate that variants of Hv-eIF4E confer multiallelic recessive virus resistance in a monocot species. The identification of eIF4E as the causal host factor for bymovirus resistance illustrates that mutations in this basic component of the eukaryotic translation complex form a seminal mechanism for recessive virus resistance in both dicot and monocot plants.
15942710	Rice extract has been shown to protect gastric mucosa from stress-induced damage. In this study, the antibiotic effect and the anti-inflammatory effect of orally administered aqueous rice extract on Helicobacter pylori infection and H. pylori-induced gastritis, respectively, in Mongolian gerbils were investigated. Fifty specific-pathogen-free male Mongolian gerbils, seven weeks old, were divided into four groups: uninfected, untreated animals (group A); uninfected, rice extract-treated animals (group B); H. pylori-infected, untreated animals (group C); and H. pylori-infected, rice extract-treated animals (group D). Group C and D animals were killed 12 weeks after H. pylori infection (i.e., at 19 weeks of age) and group A and B animals were also killed at age 19 weeks. The stomachs were removed for histopathological examination with hematoxylin-and-eosin staining and anti-5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) immunostaining, and to determine the bacterial burden. Serum anti-H. pylori antibody titers were also tested. In groups A and B, the gastric mucosa showed no inflammatory cell infiltration and a few BrdU-reactive cells. Group C animals developed marked chronic active gastritis in the gastric mucosa, and BrdU-labeled cells in the gastric mucosa markedly increased in number. In group D animals, a significant reduction occurred in the degree of neutrophilic polymorphonuclear cell infiltration into the gastric mucosa, in the BrdU-labeling indices of gastric epithelial cells, and in anti-H. pylori antibody titers in the serum (P < 0.01), compared with although H. pylori was not completely eradicated. The rice extract was effective in suppressing inflammation and epithelial cell proliferation in the gastric mucosa in H. pylori-infected Mongolian gerbils. The rice extract has potential to exhibit a protective effect on H. pylori-related gastric mucosal diseases.
15943362	With the application of mechanistic model (RICAM 1.3, RIce growth Calendar Model), this paper simulated the rice development and its yield formation under different climatic conditions at multi-locations of Asia. A three-stage Beta model (3s-Beta) was developed to predict the flowering stage of rice and to describe its three successive phases of photo-thermal response, i.e., basic vegetative phase, photoperiod-sensitive phase, and post photoperiod-sensitive phase. The 1980-1989 multi-location data of Morioka (Japan, 39 degrees 43'N), Nanchang (China, 28 degrees 36'N) and Los Banos (Philippines, 14 degrees 11'N) were used to verify the suitability of the model in studying ecosystem change. Comparisons of simulated results with observed data showed that this model could generally predict the eco-physiological processes of rice, and performed very well over a wide range of environments.
15943363	By planting rice varieties Indica and Japonica under different ecological environments in China, Japan and Thailand, this study analyzed the relationships between the grain amylose content of test varieties and the environmental factors including latitude, altitude, temperature and solar radiation during grain filling period, established the factor-driven equations for amylose accumulation in rice grain, and developed an ecological model for predicting rice grain amylose content. The model was validated by using the data of different years, sites and varieties, with the RMSE being 0.4% and 0.5% for the grain amylose content of Indica and Japonica, and 0.39% and 0.50% for their planting areas, respectively. The results indicated that the model was accurate and applicable.
15943373	By the method of static opaque chamber/modified gas chromatography, a one-year field experiment was conducted to measure in situ the CH4 and N2O emission from a winter-time flooded paddy field in a hilly area of Southwest China. Gas samples were taken simultaneously from rice-involved and rice-uninvolved plots. The results showed that during rice growth period, the CH4 emission from the winter-time flooded paddy field was higher than that from other paddy fields, but largely lower than many previous reports for the similar regions in Southwest China. The average flux of CH4 emission from rice-involved plots was 22.76 +/- 2.76 mg CH4 x m(-2) x h(-1) during rice growth period, 9.64 +/- 1.17 mg CH4 x m(-2) x h(-1) per year, and 1.43 +/- 0.20 mg CH4 x m(-2) x h(-1) during non-rice growth season; while that from rice-uninvolved plots was only 2.03 +/- 0.18 mg CH4 x m(-2) x h(-1) per year, markedly lower than those from rice-involved plots. During rice growth season, the mean emission rate of CH4 and N2O was 4.53 +/- 0.38 mg CH4 x m(-2) x h(-1) and 32.01 +/- 5.02 microg N2O x m(-2) x h(-1) from rice-uninvolved plots, but reached to 22.76 +/- 2.76 mg CH4 x m(-2) x h(-1) and 73.04 +/- 5.03 microg N2O x m(-2) x h(-1) from rice-involved plots, respectively. Rice involvement resulted in 302% increment of CH4 and 128% increment of N2O emission. There was a clear trade-off between CH4 and N2O emission in paddy fields. Even with a span of 500 years, our calculation showed that in this winter-time flooded paddy field, the GWP contributed by N2O production was 7.9% of the CH4 contribution, and thus, the greenhouse effect of N2O production from this field was very small.
15943382	This study is aimed to investigate the activities of phosphomonoesterase (acid-, neutral-, and alkaline-), phosphodiesterase and phosphotriesterase in a rice-planting meadow brown soil at the lower reach of Liao River, and their responses to different fertilization treatments. The results showed that there was no significant difference in soil total P and organic P contents among all treatments, but soil available P content was significantly higher in treatment OM than in other treatments. Soil acid-and neutral phosphomonoesterase had a higher activity than alkaline phosphomonoesterase and phosphodiesterase, while phosphotriesterase had the lowest activity. No significant difference was found in phosphatase activities between different fertilization treatments. Soil acid phosphomonoesterase activity had a significant correlation with soil total P and available P contents, while soil phosphodiesterase activity significantly correlated with soil organic P content.
15944756	The glyoxylate cycle is a modified form of the tricarboxylic acid cycle that converts C2 compounds into C4 dicarboxylic acids at plant developmental stages. By studying submerged rice seedlings, we revealed the activation of the glyoxylate cycle by identifying the increased transcripts of mRNAs of the genes of isocitrate lyase (ICL) and malate synthase (MS), two characteristic enzymes of the glyoxylate cycle. Northern blot analysis showed that ICL and MS were activated in the prolonged anaerobic environment. The activity assay of pyruvate decarboxylase and ICL in the submerged seedlings indicated an 8.8-fold and 3.5-fold increase over that in the unsubmerged seedlings, respectively. The activity assay of acetyl-coenzyme A synthetase in the submerged seedlings indicated a 3-fold increase over that in the unsubmerged seedlings, which is important for initiating acetate metabolism. Consequently, we concluded that the glyoxylate cycle was involved in acetate metabolism under anaerobic conditions.
15946720	The cytotoxicity of extracts from rice cultures of five Fusarium avenaceum strains against the porcine epithelial kidney cell-line PK-15 was investigated using the Alamar Blue assay. After the identification of known fungal metabolites, cytotoxic extracts were fractionated using semi-preparative reversed-phase HPLC and normal phase LC, and the fractions were tested for cytotoxicity. In this way, two different groups of metabolites were identified as the major cytotoxic principles of the extracts. High concentrations of enniatins, especially enniatins B and B1, inhibited the metabolic activity of PK-15 cells. Furthermore, an unidentified metabolite, produced in high amounts by a strain that produced relatively small amounts of enniatins, was also found to be cytotoxic to PK-15 cells. This study shows that enniatins, a group of cyclic depsipeptides, which have been ignored as significant contributors to the toxicity of fungal extracts, may account for most of the observed effect for F. avenaceum.
15946740	Plant extracts, especially botanical insecticides, are currently studied more and more because of the possibility of their use in plant protection. Many of the natural plant compounds and organic compounds used in the control of insect pests are known to affect digestive enzymes. When fed a diet of rice leaves treated with botanical insecticides and bacterial toxins in bioassays, activities of the digestive enzymes protease, amylase, and lipase in the rice leaffolder larvae are affected. Digestive enzyme activities were affected by botanical insecticides and bacterial toxins individually and in combination. When combined, the effect was more severe at low concentration. There were statistically significant differences (P < or = 0.05) in enzyme activities in combined and individual treatments. The combination of Btk and botanical insecticides caused a two-fold decrease in enzyme activity even at reduced concentration. Clear dose-response relationships were established with respect to enzyme activity. A synergistic effect of botanical insecticides and bacterial toxins was found when combined in low doses. These effects are most pronounced in early instars.
15947907	Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) was first reported using the cytoplasm of a Chinese wild rice, Oryza rufipogon Griff. strain W1. However, it was not possible to characterize this ms-CW-type CMS in more detail until a restorer line had been developed due to the lack of restorer genes among cultivars thus far tested. The breeding of a restorer line (W1-R) was eventually achieved by transferring the restorer gene(s) of W1 to a cultivar. We report here the characterization of the ms-CW pollen grains and mapping of the restorer gene for ms-CW-type CMS. Pollen grains of the male-sterile plants appeared to be normal and viable based on the fluorochromatic reaction test, but they did not germinate on normal stigmas. The 1:1 segregation of fertile and sterile plants in a BC(1)F(1) population from a cross between W1-R and a maintainer line demonstrated that fertility restoration is controlled by a single gene. The fertile seed set of all the F(2) plants examined indicated that the fertility restoration functions gametophytically. We designated the fertility restorer gene Rfcw. Using cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) and simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers, we localized Rfcw to chromosome 4 with a genetic distance of 0.6 cM from the nearest SSR marker.
15948583	Two strategies of phytoextraction have been shown to have promise for practical soil remediation: domestication of natural hyperaccumulators and bioengineering plants with the genes that allow natural hyperaccumulators to achieve useful phytoextraction. Because different elements have different value, some can be phytomined for profit and others can be phytoremediated at lower cost than soil removal and replacement. Ni phytoextraction from contaminated or mineralized soils offers economic return greater than producing most crops, especially when considering the low fertility or phytotoxicity of Ni rich soils. Only soils that require remediation based on risk assessment will comprise the market for phytoremediation. Improved risk assessment has indicated that most Zn + Cd contaminated soils will not require Cd phytoextraction because the Zn limits practical risk from soil Cd. But rice and tobacco, and foods grown on soils with Cd contamination without corresponding 100-fold greater Zn contamination, allow Cd to readily enter food plants and diets. Clear evidence of human renal tubular dysfunction from soil Cd has only been obtained for subsistence rice farm families in Asia. Because of historic metal mining and smelting, Zn + Cd contaminated rice soils have been found in Japan, China, Korea, Vietnam and Thailand. Phytoextraction using southern France populations of Thlaspi caerulescens appears to be the only practical method to alleviate Cd risk without soil removal and replacement. The southern France plants accumulate 10-20-fold higher Cd in shoots than most T. caerulescens populations such as those from Belgium and the UK. Addition of fertilizers to maximize yield does not reduce Cd concentration in shoots; and soil management promotes annual Cd removal. The value of Cd in the plants is low, so the remediation service must pay the costs of Cd phytoextraction plus profits to the parties who conduct phytoextraction. Some other plants have been studied for Cd phytoextraction, but annual removals are much lower than the best T. caerulescens. Improved cultivars with higher yields and retaining this remarkable Cd phytoextraction potential are being bred using normal plant breeding techniques.
15948846	Microsynteny with rice and comparative genetic mapping were used to identify candidate orthologous sequences to the rice Hd1(Se1) gene in Lolium perenne and Festuca pratensis. A F. pratensis bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library was screened with a marker (S2539) physically close to Hd1 in rice to identify the equivalent genomic region in F. pratensis. The BAC sequence was used to identify and map the same region in L. perenne. Predicted protein sequences for L. perenne and F. pratensis Hd1 candidates (LpHd1 and FpHd1) indicated they were CONSTANS-like zinc finger proteins with 61-62% sequence identity with rice Hd1 and 72% identity with barley HvCO1. LpHd1 and FpHd1 were physically linked in their respective genomes (< 4 kb) to marker S2539, which was mapped to L. perenne chromosome 7. The identified candidate orthologues of rice Hd1 and barley HvCO1 in L. perenne and F. pratensis map to chromosome 7, a region of the L. perenne genome which has a degree of conserved genetic synteny both with rice chromosome 6, which contains Hd1, and barley chromosome 7H, which contains HvCO1.
15949048	Cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) is endowed with a rich genetic variability. In spite of such a great diversity, the modern rice cultivars have narrow genetic base for most of the agronomically important traits. To sustain the demand of an ever increasing population, new avenues have to be explored to increase the yield of rice. Wild progenitor species present potential donor sources for complex traits such as yield and would help to realize the dream of sustained food security. Advanced backcross method was used to introgress and map new quantitative trait loci (QTLs) relating to yield and its components from an Indian accession of Oryza rufipogon. An interspecific BC2 testcross progeny (IR58025A/O. rufipogon//IR580325B///IR58025B////KMR3) was evaluated for 13 agronomic traits pertaining to yield and its components. Transgressive segregants were obtained for all the traits. Thirty nine QTLs were identified using interval mapping and composite interval mapping. In spite of it's inferiority for most of the traits studied, O. rufipogon alleles contributed positively to 74% of the QTLs. Thirty QTLs had corresponding occurrences with the QTLs reported earlier, indicating that these QTLs are stable across genetic backgrounds. Nine QTLs are novel and reported for the first time. The study confirms that the progenitor species constitute a prominent source of still unfolded variability for traits of complex inheritance like yield. With the availability of the complete genome sequence of rice and the developments in the field of genomics, it is now possible to identify the genes underlying the QTLs. The identification of the genes constituting QTLs would help us to understand the molecular mechanisms behind the action of QTLs.
15950602	We report a recessive mutation of rice, aberrant panicle organization 1 (apo1), which severely affects inflorescence architecture, floral organ identity, and leaf production rate. In the wild-type inflorescence, the main-axis meristem aborts after forming 10-12 primary branch primordia. However, in apo1, the main-axis meristem was converted to a spikelet meristem after producing a small number of branch primordia. In addition, the branch meristems in apo1 became spikelet meristems earlier than in wild type. Therefore, in the inflorescence, the apo1 mutation caused the precocious conversion of the meristem identity. In the apo1 flower, lodicules were increased at the expense of stamens, and carpels were formed indeterminately by the loss of meristem determinacy. Vegetative development is also affected in the apo1. Leaves were formed rapidly throughout the vegetative phase, indicating that APO1 is also involved in temporal regulation of leaf production. These phenotypes suggest that the APO1 plays an important role in the temporal regulation of both vegetative and reproductive development.
15951422	Different maize inbred lines are polymorphic for the presence or absence of genic sequences at various allelic chromosomal locations. In the bz genomic region, located in 9S, sequences homologous to four different genes from rice and Arabidopsis are present in line McC but absent from line B73. It is shown here that this apparent intraspecific violation of genetic colinearity arises from the movement of genes or gene fragments by Helitrons, a recently discovered class of eukaryotic transposons. Two Helitrons, HelA and HelB, account for all of the genic differences distinguishing the two bz locus haplotypes. HelA is 5.9 kb long and contains sequences for three of the four genes found only in the McC bz genomic region. A nearly identical copy of HelA was isolated from a 5S chromosomal location in B73. Both the 9S and 5S sites appear to be polymorphic in maize, suggesting that these Helitrons have been active recently. Helitrons lack the strong predictive terminal features of other transposons, so the definition of their ends is greatly facilitated by the identification of their vacant sites in Helitron-minus lines. The ends of the 2.7-kb HelB Helitron were discerned from a comparison of the McC haplotype sequence with that of yet a third line, Mo17, because the HelB vacant site is deleted in B73. Maize Helitrons resemble rice Pack-MULEs in their ability to capture genes or gene fragments from several loci and move them around the genome, features that confer on them a potential role in gene evolution.
15951485	Transfers of organelle DNA to the nucleus established several thousand functional genes in eukaryotic chromosomes over evolutionary time. Recent transfers have also contributed nonfunctional plastid (pt)- and mitochondrion (mt)-derived DNA (termed nupts and numts, respectively) to plant nuclear genomes. The two largest transferred organelle genome copies are 131-kb nuptDNA in rice (Oryza sativa) and 262-kb numtDNA in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). These transferred copies were compared in detail with their bona fide organelle counterparts, to which they are 99.77% and 99.91% identical, respectively. No evidence for purifying selection was found in either nuclear integrant, indicating that they are nonfunctional. Mutations attributable to 5-methylcytosine hypermutation have occurred at a 6- to 10-fold higher rate than other point mutations in Arabidopsis numtDNA and rice nuptDNA, respectively, revealing this as a major mechanism of mutational decay for these transferred organelle sequences. Short indels occurred preferentially within homopolymeric stretches but were less frequent than point mutations. The 131-kb nuptDNA is absent in the O. sativa subsp. indica or Oryza rufipogon nuclear genome, suggesting that it was transferred within the O. sativa subsp. japonica lineage and, as revealed by sequence comparisons, after its divergence from the indica chloroplast lineage. The time of the transfer for the rice nupt was estimated as 148,000 (74,000--296,000) years ago and that for the Arabidopsis numtDNA as 88,000 (44,000--176,000) years ago. The results reveal transfer and integration of entire organelle genomes into the nucleus as an ongoing evolutionary process and uncover mutational mechanisms affecting organelle genomes recently transferred into a new mutational environment.
15951489	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are activated in plants during responses to pathogens or to pathogen-derived elicitors and mediate intracellular stress responses. Here, we show that a rice (Oryza sativa) MAPK, OsMAPK6, was posttranslationally activated in a cell culture by a sphingolipid elicitor. Suppression of OsMAPK6 expression by RNA interference resulted in a strong reduction of pathogen-induced Phe ammonia-lyase mRNA, whereas the mRNA level of another rice MAPK, OsMAPK5a, was highly increased. Silencing of a small GTPase, OsRac1, by RNA interference or loss-of-function mutation (d1) of the heterotrimeric G-protein alpha-subunit gene resulted in a strong reduction of the OsMAPK6 protein levels and of kinase activation by a sphingolipid elicitor. Furthermore, coimmunoprecipitation experiments with OsRac1 and OsMAPK6 proteins showed that OsMAPK6 is closely associated with the active form of OsRac1, but not with inactive forms of OsRac1. These results indicate that these two G-proteins regulate an elicitor-inducible MAPK in rice at the protein level.
15951567	Photosynthetic characteristics in rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves were examined after treatment with low temperature (15 degrees C) and high irradiance (1,500 micromol quanta m(-2) s(-1)). Decreases in quantum efficiencies in PSII (PhiPSII) and PSI (PhiPSI) and in the rate of CO2 assimilation were observed with a decrease in the maximal quantum efficiency of PSII (F(v)/F(m)) by simultaneous measurements of Chl fluorescence, P700+ absorbance and gas exchange. The decreases in PhiPSII were most highly correlated with those in CO2 assimilation. Although the initial (the activity immediately measured upon extraction) and total (the activity following pre-incubation with CO2 and Mg2+) activities of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) decreased slightly, the maximal activity (the activity following treatment with SO4(2-)) of Rubisco remained almost constant. These results indicate that the decrease in CO2 assimilation rate with the decreasing F(v)/F(m) was not caused by a decrease in Rubisco activity but rather by a decrease in RuBP regeneration capacity which resulted from the decrease in the rate of the linear electron transport. On the other hand, the decrease in PhiPSI was very small and the ratio of PhiPSI to PhiPSII increased. The de-epoxidation state of xanthophyll cycle pigments also increased. Thus, the cyclic electron transport around PSI occurred in photoinhibited leaves.
15952066	Transcription factors (TFs) are major, crucial factors for developmental control. To elucidate the effects of TFs on rice seed development, we generated a cDNA chip containing 325 rice cDNA clones, which are from flowering stage and encode known or putative TFs belonging to 12 different families, and used this chip for expression profiling at 8 continuous seed developmental stages. The results showed that in comparison to their expression in mature leaves, a total of 135 TF genes were preferentially transcribed in seeds. Cluster analysis based on the temporal expression patterns grouped them into 12 types, each of which contained members of various families showing common unique expression patterns. The results provide insights into possible key roles for members of several TF families during seed development. In addition, the expression patterns of these genes were examined in vegetative tissues including roots, seedlings and stems, as well as in 2-week-old seedlings following the application of plant hormones or abiotic stresses. The results showed that many of the seed-preferential TFs were also involved in hormone and/or abiotic stress effects, suggesting the potential existence of uncharacterized transcriptional networks, or cross talk between hormone and abiotic stress signaling and seed development. Furthermore, analysis on the cis-elements locating in promoter region of seed preferential TF genes suggested that Dof proteins play essential roles in hierarchical regulation of gene expressions during rice seed development, which, taken together, provided informative clues for elucidation of the molecular mechanisms of transcriptional regulation and signaling networks in the complex developmental processes of rice seeds.
15952067	Chlorophyll b is synthesized from chlorophyll a by chlorophyll a oxygenase. We have identified two genes (OsCAO1 and OsCAO2) from the rice genome that are highly homologous to previously studied chlorophyll a oxygenase (CAO) genes. They are positioned in tandem, probably resulting from recent gene duplications. The proteins they encode contain two conserved functional motifs - the Rieske Fe-sulfur coordinating center and a non-heme mononuclear Fe-binding site. OsCAO1 is induced by light and is preferentially expressed in photosynthetic tissues. Its mRNA level decreases when plants are grown in the dark. In contrast, OsCAO2 mRNA levels are higher under dark conditions, and its expression is down-regulated by exposure to light. To elucidate the physiological function of the CAO genes, we have isolated knockout mutant lines tagged by T-DNA or Tos17. Mutant plants containing a T-DNA insertion in the first intron of the OsCAO1 gene have pale green leaves, indicating chlorophyll b deficiency. We have also isolated a pale green mutant with a Tos17 insertion in that OsCAO1 gene. In contrast, OsCAO2 knockout mutant leaves do not differ significantly from the wild type. These results suggest that OsCAO1 plays a major role in chlorophyll b biosynthesis, and that OsCAO2 may function in the dark.
15952069	Phenotype screens of Ds insertional lines identified a male sterile Orysa sativa no pollen (Osnop) mutant with a pollen-less phenotype at the flowering stage. The mutant phenotype showed linkage to Ds insertion into Osnop gene region. This mutant contained a deletion of 65 kb chromosomal region at the site of Ds insertion containing 14 predicted genes. Out of these deleted genes, Delegen 5-7, 9-10 were redundant, as two or three copies were present with 100% homology in other regions of rice genome. RT-PCR analysis showed that Delegen 5-7 were expressed not only in wild type plants but also in the mutant plants. In addition to this, Delegen 8-10 transcripts could not be detected under normal growth conditions, and Delegen 12 was expressed only in roots, thus deletion of these genes may not affect the pollen development. Our data and analysis also ruled out the possibility of delegen 1-4, 11, and 13 as candidates contributing to the pollen-less phenotype. Further investigation showed that the delegen 14 was expressed only in late stage of pollen development with the highest expression at the stage of pollen release and germination by RT-PCR, Northern blotting, in situ hybridization, and promoter-GUS transgenic plants. Thus, the delegen 14 gene is the best candidate for Osnop, corresponding to the pollen-less phenotype in the mutant. Our data suggest that delegen 14 may play an important role during late stage of pollen development and its germination. Since the delegen 14 gene has both C(2) and GRAM domains, it can be assumed that this gene cross-links both calcium and phosphoinositide signaling pathways. This is the first report to suggest possible functions for this gene in plant development.
15953672	Bentazon is a herbicide used to control many broadleaf weeds and sedges. Its use has improved rice production in paddy fields in Northern Italy, but as a negative consequence it is found in groundwater, the major source of drinking water. To determine whether low doses of bentazon affect spermatogenesis, it was dissolved in water at the concentration of 30 microg/L. Bentazon was administered through drinking water to: (1) adult mice for 100 days and (2) mice exposed in utero, during lactation and for 100 days after birth. The histopathological analysis of testes of treated animals showed that the frequency of defective tubules was comparable to that found in control groups. The cell associations of the 12 stages of the seminiferous epithelium were correct as well as the architecture of the epithelium. The spermatocytes/spermatids ratio was the same as in controls. However, the frequency of stages VII, IX and XII of the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium of adult mice and of stages I, III and VII of mice exposed in utero and for 100 days after birth was different when compared to that of control mice. Sperm number and morphology were not affected by the treatment. The potential genotoxic effects were evaluated on spermatozoa (Comet assay), in pachytene spermatocytes (analysis of the synaptonemal complex) and in bone marrow cells (frequency of micronuclei). None of these analyses evidenced genotoxic effects of bentazon. Although our results show that the administration of a low dose of bentazon does not impair spermatogenesis, we found alterations of the frequency of some stages of the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium in both experimental groups.
15955925	The tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) Cf-9 resistance gene encodes the first characterized member of the plant receptor-like protein (RLP) family. Other RLPs such as CLAVATA2 and TOO MANY MOUTHS are known to regulate development. The domain structure of RLPs consists of extracellular leucine-rich repeats, a transmembrane helix, and a short cytoplasmic region. Here, we identify 90 RLPs in rice (Oryza sativa) and compare them with functionally characterized RLPs from different plant species and with 56 Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) RLPs, including the downy mildew resistance protein RPP27. Many RLPs cluster into four distinct superclades, three of which include RLPs known to be involved in plant defense. Sequence comparisons reveal diagnostic amino acid residues that may specify different molecular functions in different RLP subtypes. This analysis of rice RLPs thus identified at least 73 candidate resistance genes and four genes potentially involved in development. Due to the synteny between rice and other Gramineae, this analysis should provide valuable tools for experimental studies in rice and other cereals.
15957116	Monopterus albus inhabits muddy ponds, swamps, canals, and rice fields, where it can burrow into the moist earth, and it survives for long periods during the dry summer season. However, it had been reported previously that mortality increased when M. albus was exposed to air for 8 d or more. Thus, the objective of this study was to elucidate the strategies adopted by M. albus to defend against ammonia toxicity during 6 or 40 d of estivation in mud and to evaluate whether these strategies were different from those adopted by fish to survive 6 d of aerial exposure. Ammonia and glutamine accumulations occurred in the muscle and liver of fish exposed to air (normoxia) for 6 d, indicating that ammonia was detoxified to glutamine under such conditions. In contrast, ammonia accumulation occurred only in the muscle, with no increases in glutamine or glutamate contents in all tissues, of fish estivated in mud for 6 d. Similar results were obtained from fish estivated in mud for 40 d. While estivating in mud prevented excessive water loss through evaporation, M. albus was exposed to hypoxia, as indicated by significant decreases in blood P(O(2)), muscle energy charge, and ATP content in fish estivated in mud for 6 d. Glutamine synthesis is energy intensive, and that could be the reason why M. albus did not depend on glutamine synthesis to defend against ammonia toxicity when a decrease in ATP supply occurred. Instead, suppression of endogenous ammonia production was adopted as the major strategy to ameliorate ammonia toxicity when M. albus estivated in mud. Our results suggest that a decrease in O(2) level in the mud could be a more effective signal than an increase in internal ammonia level during aerial exposure to induce a suppression of ammonia production in M. albus. This might explain why M. albus is able to estivate in mud for long periods (40 d) but can survive in air for only <10 d.
15957154	Proteomics-a systematic study of proteins present in a cell, tissue, organ, or organism at a particular moment during the life cycle-that began with classical two-dimensional electrophoresis and its advancement during the 1990s, has been revolutionized by a series of tremendous technological developments in mass spectrometry (MS), a core technology. Proteomics is exerting its influence on biological function of genes and genomes in the era (21st century) of functional genomics, and for this reason yeast, bacterial, and mammalian systems are the best examples. Although plant proteomics is still in its infancy, evolving proteomic technologies and the availability of the genome sequences of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heyhn, and rice (Oryza sativa L.), model dicotyledoneous and monocotyledoneous (monocot) species, respectively, are propelling it towards new heights, as evidenced by the rapid spurt in worldwide plant proteome research. Rice, with an immense socio-economic impact on human civilization, is a representative model of cereal food crops, and we consider it as a cornerstone for functional genomics of cereal plants. In this review, we look at the history and the current state of monocot proteomes, including barley, maize, and wheat, with a central focus on rice, which has the most extensive proteomic coverage to date. On one side, we highlight advances in technologies that have generated enormous amount of interest in plant proteomics, and the other side summarizes the achievements made towards establishing proteomes during plant growth & development and challenge to environmental factors, including disease, and for studying genetic relationships. In light of what we have learned from the proteomic journey in rice and other monocots, we finally reveal and assess their impact in our continuous strive towards completion of their full proteomes.
15957596	This paper presents a new three-dimensional (3-D) wavelet-based scalable lossless coding scheme for compression of volumetric medical images. Aiming to improve the productivity of radiologists and the cost-effectiveness of the system, we strive to achieve high decoder throughput, random access to coded data volume, progressive transmission, and high compression ratio in a balanced design approach. These desirable functionalities are realized by a modified 3-D dyadic wavelet transform tailored to volumetric medical images and an optimized Rice code of very low complexity.
15958496	We have cloned and characterized the cDNA, genomic clone and upstream promoter region of a vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase) c subunit (PgVHA-c1) from Pennisetum glaucum. The deduced amino acid sequence shows 98-71% sequence identity with V-ATPase from rice and Arabidopsis, and is a highly hydrophobic protein with four transmembrane regions. PgVHA-c1-GFP fusion protein is expressed in BY2 cells on the endo-membranes surrounding vacuoles; however, PgVHA-c1 could not functionally complement V-ATPase-c deletion mutants of yeast. The sequence analysis of the genomic clone revealed the presence of two introns in the coding region, and the splice junctions followed the typical canonical GU-AG consensus sequence. The transcript analysis showed that the expression of PgVHA-c1 was stimulated more in response to salinity stress and very marginally in response to drought and low temperature stress. Exogenous application of abscisic acid, salicylic acid and calcium stimulated the transcript level in the absence of stress. We have cloned the 5'-flanking regions of PgVHA-c1 and mapped its transcript start site at 78 bp upstream of ATG. Transgenic tobacco with promoter::GUS constructs showed that the region -288/+78 was sufficient for GUS expression. The expression of the reporter gene even with the full-length promoter was limited to shoot hairs and to male and female reproductive organs. The dehydration-responsive element (DRE) and ABA-responsive element (ABRE) in the promoter did not show consensus flanking regions; however, gel mobility shift assays showed that Pennisetum has specific transacting factors that showed binding to the core DRE, ABRE and TCA elements.
15960615	Adventitious roots constitute the bulk of the fibrous root system in cereals. Compared with the current understanding of shoot development, knowledge of the molecular mechanisms of development of the adventitious roots of cereals is limited. We have isolated and characterized a novel gene controlling the initiation of adventitious root primordia in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The gene, designated Adventitious rootless1 (ARL1), encodes a protein with a LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES (LOB) domain. It is expressed in lateral and adventitious root primordia, tiller primordia, vascular tissues, scutellum, and young pedicels. ARL1 is a nuclear protein and can form homodimers. ARL1 is an auxin- and ethylene-responsive gene, and the expression pattern of ARL1 in roots parallels auxin distribution. Our findings suggest that ARL1 is an auxin-responsive factor involved in auxin-mediated cell dedifferentiation, and that it promotes the initial cell division in the pericycle cells adjacent to the peripheral vascular cylinder in the stem.
15960616	Sensitivity to ultraviolet-B (UVB) radiation (280-320 nm) varies widely among rice cultivars. We previously indicated that UV-resistant rice cultivars are better able to repair cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) through photorepair than are UV-sensitive cultivars. In this paper, we report that UVB sensitivity in rice, in part, is the result of defective CPD photolyase alleles. Surjamkhi (indica) exhibited greater sensitivity to UVB radiation and was more deficient in CPD photorepair ability compared with UV-resistant Sasanishiki (japonica). The deficiency in CPD photorepair in Surjamkhi resulted from changes in two nucleotides at positions 377 and 888 in the photolyase gene, causing alterations of two deduced amino acids at positions 126 and 296 in the photolyase enzyme. A linkage analysis in populations derived from Surjamkhi and Sasanishiki showed that UVB sensitivity is a quantitative inherited trait and that the CPD photolyase locus is tightly linked with a quantitative trait locus that explains a major portion of the genetic variation for this trait. These results suggest that spontaneously occurring mutations in the CPD photolyase gene cause different degrees of sensitivity to UVB in rice, and that the resistance of rice to UVB radiation could be increased by increasing the photolyase function through conventional breeding or bioengineering.
15960804	Sequencing and annotation of the genome of rice (Oryza sativa) have generated gene models in numbers that top all other fully sequenced species, with many lacking recognizable sequence homology to known genes. Experimental evaluation of these gene models and identification of new models will facilitate rice genome annotation and the application of this knowledge to other more complex cereal genomes. We report here an analysis of the chromosome 10 transcriptome of the two major rice subspecies, japonica and indica, using oligonucleotide tiling microarrays. This analysis detected expression of approximately three-quarters of the gene models without previous experimental evidence in both subspecies. Cloning and sequence analysis of the previously unsupported models suggests that the predicted gene structure of nearly half of those models needs improvement. Coupled with comparative gene model mapping, the tiling microarray analysis identified 549 new models for the japonica chromosome, representing an 18% increase in the annotated protein-coding capacity. Furthermore, an asymmetric distribution of genome elements along the chromosome was found that coincides with the cytological definition of the heterochromatin and euchromatin domains. The heterochromatin domain appears to associate with distinct chromosome level transcriptional activities under normal and stress conditions. These results demonstrated the utility of genome tiling microarray in evaluating annotated rice gene models and in identifying novel transcriptional units. The tiling microarray sanalysis further revealed a chromosome-wide transcription pattern that suggests a role for transposable element-enriched heterochromatin in shaping global transcription in response to environmental changes in rice.
1596102	An epidemiological study was performed on 1,815 cadmium-exposed and 240 nonexposed inhabitants of the Kakehashi River basin in Ishikawa, Japan. The significance of urinary cadmium concentration as an indicator of internal dose in a general environment polluted by cadmium was investigated. The mean urinary cadmium concentration (Cd-U) increased in a dose-related manner when the subjects were classified according to the average cadmium concentration in their village rice and according to their period of residence in the polluted area. As total cadmium intake increased, Cd-U also increased, and strong correlations were found (r = .93 in men and r = .88 in women). Therefore, it was concluded that, on a group basis, Cd-U is a useful indicator of the internal dose of environmental cadmium exposure.
15961898	To use different types of promoters in transgenic rice research, the 5'-upstream regulation region of rice Rubisco small subunit gene (rbcS) was cloned from a Chinese cultivar Wuyunjing 8, and its sequences were confirmed by comparison with the known genome sequences of both japonica and indica rice. The cloned rbcS promoter was fused to the 5'-upstream of GUS (beta-glucuronidase) coding region in a binary vector, and introduced into rice by Agrogacterium-mediated transformation. The integration of the rbcS-GUS fusion gene in transgenic rice was confirmed by PCR analysis. The results of both histochemical staining and quantitative analysis of GUS activity showed that the expression level of GUS fusion gene was significantly stronger in leaf blade and sheath than in other organs of transgenic rice plants, and the GUS activity was restricted to the mesophyll cells of leaf tissue, which showed that the rice rbcS promoter could control not only the tissue- but also the cell-specific expression of foreign genes in transgenic rice. The present results also demonstrated that light induction had a significant effect on the enhancement of transgene's expression when regulated by the rice rbcS promoter in transgenic rice. Our results showed that the rice rbcS promoter might be very useful for the expression of target genes in transgenic rice, with particularly high efficiency in leaf tissues.
15961900	CRY2 is the apoprotein of cryptochrome 2 and CRY2 cDNA has been cloned from Sorghum bicolor in this study. The results of sequence analysis shows that it contains a complete open reading frame encoding a predicted protein of 690 amino acids sharing 87% identity with the CRY2 of rice, but only 45.5% with that of Arabidopsis and 57% with that of tomato. The DNA sequence of sorghum CRY2 contains three introns and four exons. RT-PCR results show that CRY2 has been transcribed in root, leaf and mesocotyl in sorghum seedlings. CRY2 protein has been shown by Western blot analysis to be present in mesocotyl, leaf and root, and to be accumulated in the dark and to be degraded under blue light.
15961910	GUS gene controlled by several kinds of regulator sequences (promoters, TMVOmega enhancer and fragments of 18S rRNA gene from Arabidopsis thaliane) were introduced into the calli of rice and Populus tomrutosa respectively by gene gun. The transient expression of GUS gene in the calli of rice and P. tomrutosa was investigated. The results showed: (1) in the calli of rice, Ubil promoter was the most effective one among the several regulator sequences and CaMV35S with fragments of 18S rRNA gene is the least effective one; (2) in the calli of P. tomrutosa, CaMV35S promoter with 18S rDNA fragments was the most effective one among the several regulator sequences; and (3) tandem CaMV35S-Ubil promoter with TMVOmega sequence could not enhance significantly the expression of GUS gene in the calli of rice and P. tomrutosa.
15961917	Oral care and oral treatment are promoted in health care service facilities. However, disorders of eating, mastication and swallowing and care management of meal were get behind. This study investigated them in health care service facilities. Doctors who work in facilities were screened for care management of meal using questionnaire. Inpatients were screened for age, meal menu, vertical stop, prosthetic treatment, satisfaction of mastication and difference of meal menu in the home and in the facility. Doctors and care workers have little understanding of mastication. Inpatients were satisfied to be able to eat rice in the home and in the facility. It is of paramount importance to have remaining teeth, to maintain vertical stop and to have prosthetic treatment. Education on the importance of mastication is needed. The research results show that new action and diagnosis method for deciding menus aiming at mastication of steamed rice need to be developed.
15962783	Nineteen strains and species of entomopathogenic fungi were examined for their potential as biological control agents of the house fly, Musca domestica L. Bioassays against larvae, pupae, and adult males and females in small containers indicated five strains of Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. were relatively more virulent. Three of the virulent strains, chosen for efficiency of production in a rice-based, diphasic fungal production system, were further evaluated by mixing spore-contaminated rice residue with sugar and tested as a food bait for adult flies in a 33-m3 walk-in chamber. Up to 90% mortality was obtained within 15 d of exposure. The results indicate bait formulations of the most virulent and aggressive strain should be further developed and studied.
15963716	The effects of initial concentration of lead, temperature, biomass loading and pH were investigated for an optimized condition of lead uptake from the aqueous solution. The optimization process was analyzed using Central Composite Face-Centered Experimental Design in Response Surface Methodology (RSM) by Design Expert Version 5.0.7 (StatEase, USA). The design was employed to derive a statistical model for the effect of parameters studied on the removal of lead ion from aqueous solution. The coefficient of determination, R2 was found to be 92.36%. The initial concentration of 50.0 mg/L, temperature of 60 degrees C, biomass loading of 0.2 g and pH of 5.0 had been found to be the optimum conditions for the maximum uptake of lead ions in 98.11% batch mode. Under the optimum conditions, the lead uptake was attained to be circa 8.60 mg/g.
15964610	In recent years, methodology of ecological risk assessment has been developed and applied frequently for addressing various circumstances where ecological impacts are suspected or have occurred due to environmental contamination; however, its practice is very limited in Taiwan. In 1982, brown rice from rice paddy fields in Da-Tan, Tau-Yuan, was found to be contaminated with Cd and Pb due to illegal discharges of wastewater, known as the "Cd rice" incidence. Cadmium laden soil was transferred to a constructed landfill in an industrial park 15 years after the incident. Possible leakage of the landfill was suspected by committee members of a supervising board for the remediation process, and a preliminary ecological risk evaluation was requested. A possible risk scenario was that groundwater contamination due to the leachate containing Cd and Pb from the landfill could result in pollution of coastal water, and subsequently produce toxic effects to aquatic organisms. Chemical dissipation in groundwater systems was simulated and short-term chronic toxicity tests on larvae of three local aquatic species were also performed to determine the no-observed adverse-effect concentrations (NOAECs), as well as the predicted no effect concentrations (PNECs), of the two metals in the organisms tested. The hazard quotient (HQ), the ratio of predicted environmental concentrations (PECs) to PNECs, was used for risk characterization. A worst-case-scenario calculation showed that the maximum Cd concentration at 60 m and farther downstream from the site in the groundwater system would be 0.0028 mg l(-1) with a maximum initial concentration of 0.65 mg l(-1) in the leachate, while for Pb, the highest concentration of 0.044 mg l(-1) would be reached at a distance of 40 m and farther, which was based on an initial concentration of 4.4 mg l(-1) in the leachate; however, both cases would only occur 80 years after the initiation of leakage. A presumed dilution factor of 100 was used to calculate the PECs based on the maximum initial concentrations. The Cd and Pb's PNECs for three aquatic animals were 0.01 to approximately 0.1 mg l(-1), higher than their PECs in coastal water, resulting in HQs less than 1 for the scenario described. We concluded that if a leakage does occur, the ecological impact would be minimal because a majority of the metals will be retained in the soil phase and the remaining, if released into the aquatic system, cannot reach high enough concentrations to produce toxicity to marine animals.
1596491	Current infant feeding guidelines recommend exclusive breast-feeding until the infant is about 4 months old to reduce the risks of early termination of breast-feeding, undernutrition and infection. In many societies, however, supplementary foods are given well before 4 months of age. The present paper describes weaning practices, factors associated with early supplementation and the effects of supplementation on duration of breast-feeding in a random sample of sixty northern Thai breast-fed infants studied prospectively from birth to 2 years of age. Composition of supplementary foods, energy and protein intake from supplements and changes in the supplementary diet with increasing infant age are also described. Rice-based foods were given from soon after birth; 81% of the sample had received supplements by 6 weeks of age. Early supplementary feeding was significantly associated with rural residence, large household size, maternal employment in agriculture and maternal age. Girls and infants with lower birth weights tended to be supplemented earlier. Despite early feeding of supplements, breast-feeding was prolonged, with median duration of 12 months. Early introduction of supplements and quantity of supplements consumed in the first 3 months were not associated with duration of breast-feeding. However, mothers who gave infant formula as the first supplementary food stopped breast-feeding slightly earlier, as did younger mothers living in households with more children.
15964957	Anophelism without malaria has long been recognized. In large irrigation projects, such as that around Niono, Mali, villages in irrigated areas sometimes have more anopheline vectors of malaria than adjacent nonirrigated villages, but overall malaria prevalence is substantially less. One hypothesized explanation for this is high anopheline densities lead to smaller adults, who do not live so long and hence are less efficient at transmitting the disease. We analyzed serial collections from 18 villages in an irrigated area of Mali, measuring correlations between mosquito densities and survival rates, zoophilic rates, and vectorial capacity over the villages and times. Adult density was inversely related to anthropophily and adult survival and its relationship with vectorial capacity was positive at low mosquito densities, flat at intermediate densities, and negative at high densities. This may partly explain why malaria prevalence is low in irrigated villages with high Anopheles density.
15965082	The possibility of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) serving as a sensitive biomarker of oxidative DNA damage and oxidative stress was investigated. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been reported to be a cause of diabetes induced by chemicals such as streptozotocin (STZ) in experimental animals. In this study, we examined oxidative DNA damage in multiple tissues in rats with STZ-induced diabetes by measuring the levels of 8-OHdG in the liver, kidney, pancreas, brain, and heart. Levels of 8-OHdG in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and nuclear DNA (nDNA) were also determined in multiple tissues of rats treated with rice bran oil. Levels were 0.19 +/- 0.07, 0.88 +/- 0.30, 1.97 +/- 0.05, and 9.79 +/- 3.09 (1/10(5) dG) in the liver of nDNA of normal rats, nDNA of STZ-induced diabetic rats, mtDNA of normal rats, and mtDNA of STZ-induced diabetic rats, respectively. Levels of mtDNA of 8-OHdG were 10 times higher than those of nDNA in multiple tissues. Significant reductions in mtDNA 8-OHdG levels were seen in the liver, kidney, and pancreas of diabetic rats treated with rice bran oil compared with diabetic rats without intervention. Our study demonstrated that oxidative mtDNA damage may occur in multiple tissues of STZ-induced diabetics rats. Intervention with rice bran oil treatment may reverse the increase in the frequency of 8-OHdG.
15965085	Isovitexin, isolated from rice hull of Oryza sativa, has been characterized as a potent antioxidant. Its antioxidant activity, determined on the basis of inhibition of lipid peroxidation by the Fenton reaction, was comparable with that of alpha-tocopherol, a well-established antioxidant. Isovitexin was able to reduce the amount of hydrogen peroxide production induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in mouse macrophage RAW264.7 cells. In this study, we assessed its effects on the production of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in LPS-activated RAW 264.7 macrophages. Isovitexin inhibited the release of TNF-alpha, a proinflammatory cytokine, upon LPS activation with a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 78.6 microM. Isovitexin markedly reduced LPS-stimulated PGE2 production in a concentration-dependent manner, with an IC50 of 80.0 microM. The expression of COX-2 was also inhibited by isovitexin treatment. Our results suggest that suppression of ROS-mediated COX-2 expression by isovitexin is beneficial in reducing inflammation and carcinogenesis.
15965242	Rice qUVR-10, a quantitative trait locus (QTL) for ultraviolet-B (UVB) resistance on chromosome 10, was cloned by map-based strategy. It was detected in backcross inbred lines (BILs) derived from a cross between the japonica variety Nipponbare (UV resistant) and the indica variety Kasalath (UV sensitive). Plants homozygous for the Nipponbare allele at the qUVR-10 locus were more resistant to UVB compared with the Kasalath allele. High-resolution mapping using 1850 F(2) plants enabled us to delimit qUVR-10 to a <27-kb genomic region. We identified a gene encoding the cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) photolyase in this region. Activity of CPD photorepair in Nipponbare was higher than that of Kasalath and nearly isogenic with qUVR-10 [NIL(qUVR-10)], suggesting that the CPD photolyase of Kasalath was defective. We introduced a genomic fragment containing the CPD photolyase gene of Nipponbare to NIL(qUVR-10). Transgenic plants showed the same level of resistance as Nipponbare did, indicating that the qUVR-10 encoded the CPD photolyase. Comparison of the qUVR-10 sequence in the Nipponbare and Kasalath alleles revealed one probable candidate for the functional nucleotide polymorphism. It was indicated that single-base substitution in the CPD photolyase gene caused the alteration of activity of CPD photorepair and UVB resistance. Furthermore, we were able to develop a UV-hyperresistant plant by overexpression of the photolyase gene.
15965650	Despite the collective efforts of the international community to sequence the complete rice genome, telomeric regions of most chromosome arms remain uncharacterized. In this report we present sequence data from subtelomere regions obtained by analyzing telomeric clones from two 8.8 x genome equivalent 10-kb libraries derived from partial restriction digestion with HaeIII or Sau3AI (OSJNPb HaeIII and OSJNPc Sau3AI). Seven telomere clones were identified and contain 25-100 copies of the telomere repeat (CCCTAAA)(n) on one end and unique sequences on the opposite end. Polymorphic sequence-tagged site markers from five clones and one additional PCR product were genetically mapped on the ends of chromosome arms 2S, 5L, 10S, 10L, 7L, and 7S. We found distinct chromosome-specific telomere-associated tandem repeats (TATR) on chromosome 7 (TATR7) and on the short arm of chromosome 10 (TATR10s) that showed no significant homology to any International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP) genomic sequence. The TATR7, a degenerate tandem repeat which is interrupted by transposable elements, appeared on both ends of chromosome 7. The TATR10s was found to contain an inverted array of three tandem repeats displaying an interesting secondary folding pattern that resembles a telomere loop (t-loop) and which may be involved in a protective function against chromosomal end degradation.
15965727	Forestry practises such has drainage have been shown to decrease emissions of the greenhouse gas methane (CH(4)) from peatlands. The aim of the study was to examine the methanogen populations in a drained bog in northern Finland, and to assess the possible effect of ash fertilization on potential methane production and methanogen communities. Peat samples were collected from control and ash fertilized (15,000 kg/ha) plots 5 years after ash application, and potential CH(4) production was measured. The methanogen community structure was studied by DNA isolation, PCR amplification of the methyl coenzyme-M reductase (mcr) gene, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. The drained peatland showed low potential methane production and methanogen diversity in both control and ash-fertilized plots. Samples from both upper and deeper layers of peat were dominated by three groups of sequences related to Rice cluster-I hydrogenotroph methanogens. Even though pH was marginally greater in the ash-treated site, the occurrence of those sequences was not affected by ash fertilization. Interestingly, a less common group of sequences, related to the Fen cluster, were found only in the fertilized plots. The study confirmed the depth related change of methanogen populations in peatland.
15966313	'Shuhui527' is a promising restorer line bred by Rice Research Institute of Sichuan Agricultural University in recent years. However, this line is susceptible to Bacterial Blight (BB), which limits its use. The IRBB60, from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), contains dominant genes Xa21 and Xa4 conferring resistance to BB. The objective of this study is to improve the BB resistance of 'Shuhui527' by introgressing Xa21 and Xa4, the two broad-spectrum BB resistance genes, into 'Shuhui527' with IRBB60 as the donor, pTA248 and MP12, linking tightly with Xa21 and Xa4 respectively as DNA markers. BC1 F1 progenies of (Shuhui527 x IRBB60), containing Xa21 and Xa4 identified using PCR screening and with agronomic traits including plant type, grain type and days to heading etc similar to those of 'Shuhui527', were subsequently backcrossed to 'Shuhui527' and self-pollinated to generate BC2 F1 and BC1 F2 . The BC3 F1 and BC3 F2 were subsequently developed using the same approach. Among the 20 BC3 F2 plants, homozygous Xa21 and Xa4,10 plants were the most similar to 'Shuhui527' in the agronomic traits, and were screened using 120 pairs SSR and 100 pairs RAPD markers. Based on the results of the background screening and the performance of the agronomic traits, 5 plants were identified as improved-'Shuhui527' and designated as 527R-5, 527R-6, 527R-8, 527R-9 and 527R-10. The improved-' Shuhui527' lines expressed high resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv . oryzae (Xoo) stains C I - C VII, P1 and P6. The evaluation of the polymorphisms and selection accuracies of pTA248 and MP12 demonstrated that the polymorphisms of the two markers were obvious and co-dominant and the accuracies were more than 97% and 83% respectively, indicating the two markers are good for Xa21 and Xa4 in Molecular Marker-assisted Selection.
15968500	Sheath rot disease of rice caused by Sarocladium oryzae (Sawada) (=Acrocylindrium oryzae, Sawada) has become an important production constraint in all rice-growing countries. Pathogenicity, phytotoxic metabolites, and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to assess the level of genetic variability of S. oryzae derived from rice cultivars, CR1018, IR36, and IR50, of different locations in North East and South India. Variability in pathogenicity, phytotoxic metabolite production, and DNA polymorphisms was detected among S. oryzae isolates. Results indicated that S. oryzae isolates produced both cerulenin and helvolic acid at concentrations 0.3-0.62 and 0.9-4.8 microg mL(-1) of culture filtrate, respectively. Isolates that produce higher concentration of helvolic acid induced a high percent incidence of sheath rot disease. Oligonucleotide primers, GF and MR, generated either a simple (up to 2 bands) or complex (up to 6 bands) RAPD pattern. According to their level of similarity, S. oryzae isolates from North East and South India were grouped separately into two major clusters and 13 genotypes. Molecular- and pathogenicity-based classifications were not correlated, but a high level of genetic variability within S. oryzae isolates was identified. The molecular variability of S. oryzae isolates will be an important consideration in breeding programs to develop durable resistance for sheath rot disease.
15968537	DNA methylation is known to play an important role in the regulation of gene expression in eukaryotes. The rice cultivar Wase Aikoku 3 becomes resistant to the blight pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae at the adult stage. Using methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism (MSAP) analysis, we compared the patterns of cytosine methylation in seedlings and adult plants of the rice cultivar Wase Aikoku 3 that had been inoculated with the pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, subjected to mock inoculation or left untreated. In all, 2000 DNA fragments, each representing a recognition site cleaved by either or both of two isoschizomers, were amplified using 60 pairs of selective primers. A total of 380 sites were found to be methylated. Of these, 45 showed differential cytosine methylation among the seedlings and adult plants subjected to different treatments, and overall levels of methylation were higher in adult plants than in seedlings. All polymorphic fragments were sequenced, and six showed homology to genes that code for products of known function. Northern analysis of three fragments indicated that their expression varied with methylation pattern, with hypermethylation being correlated with repression of transcription, as expected. The results suggest that significant differences in cytosine methylation exist between seedlings and adult plants, and that hypermethylation or hypomethylation of specific genes may be involved in the development of adult plant resistance (APR) in rice plants.
15969024	A full-length cDNA encoding a MYB-related regulatory gene was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from mRNAs of the red line callus of S. medusa by TD-PCR. The cDNA, designated SmP, is 969 nucleotides long and has an open reading frame of 771 bp with a deduced amino acid sequence of 256 residues. The putative protein of SmP has two typical conversed R2R3-Myb DNA-binding domains in N-terminal and displays a rather high degree of similarity to OsMYB from rice and LBMI from tobacco, showing 73% and 70% identity within the DNA-binding domains. However, the C-terminal domain of the SmP protein does not show obvious similarity to any other known protein sequence. It is rich in hydrophilic amino acids, especially in serine residues (18.38%), partly organized in homopolymeric stretches, a feature often found in activation domain of transcription factors.
15969057	The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea causes one of the most destructive diseases of rice around the world. Significant progresses have been made recently in genomics studies of the fungus, opening new era of the functional genomics which requires to generate a large scale of gene knockout mutants. It has been demonstrated that T-DNA insertional mutagenesis is a powerful tool of functional genomics not only for plants but also for fungi. In this paper, we optimized the conditions for T-DNA insertional mutagenesis of M. grisea using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT) approach. We employed the binary vector pBHtl constructed by Dr. S. Kang's laboratory at the Pennsylvania State University, which carries the bacterial hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene (hph) under the control of the Aspergillus nidulans trpC promoter as a selectable marker to transform the conidia of M. grisea. We optimized the conditions for T-DNA insertional mutagenesis including the medium, dosage of hygromycin B, cefotaxime and carbenicillin to select the transformants and inhibit the growth of A. tumefaciens after co-culturing. The dosage to inhibit non-transformants could vary from 200-600microg/mL among different M. grisea isolates so that the optimal dosage of the antibiotics should be decided according to isolates. Rice polished agar medium was found the best selection medium which would facilitate the mutant sporulation and minimize the contamination chance. In average, about 500 transformants could be obtained when transforming 1 x 10(6) spores at the optimum condition, among which 85% had T-DNA insertion detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction (TAIL-PCR). Fifteen out of 1520 transformants showed mutation in colony morphology. Within 58 randomly selected mutants, it was found that there were 4 sporulation-decreased mutants, 8 less germination mutants and 9 appressorium defective mutants. Several virulent mutants to C101LAC(Pi-1)and 75-1-127(Pi-9)were also obtained which would facilitate cloning the corresponding avirulence genes.
15969097	The United Nations Environment Program estimates that approximately 20% of agricultural land and 50% of cropland in the world is salt-stressed. The gene NHX (Na+/H+ exchanger) encodes functional protein that catalyzes the countertransport of Na+ and H+ across membranes and may play an important role in plant salt tolerance. To clone the NHX from the wild plant Populus euphratica collected in Tarim basin and Xinjiang Wujiaqu district into a T-vector, designed primer was used to amplify 1kb NHX cDNA fragment with RT-PCR. Total RNA was extracted from Populus euphratica tissue (plant tissue was collected from Tarim basin and Xinjiang Wujiaqu district and stored in liquid nitrogen) according to the Plant RNA Mini Kits of Omega. First cDNAs were synthesized from 1 microg total RNA of Populus euphratica seedling. A pair of primers were used to perform RT-PCR. The amplified DNA fragment was purified and cloned into pMD18-T vector. However, 1kb and 2.3kb fragment were obtained from Tarim basin and Xinjiang Wujiaqu district and named as PtNHX and PwNHX, respectively. Sequence analysis reveals that the cloned PtNHX fragment of Populus euphratica contains partial NHX coding region with 98%, 86%, 84% and 80% identity comparing with Atriplex gemelini, Suaeda maritima, Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, respectively. This analysis suggests that NHX gene would be highly conserved in terms of evolution in plant; and it also suggests that the NHX gene of Populus euphratica also would have the similarity with that of Arabidopsis. It may be of great importance in improvement of the plant salt tolerance and breed of crop. At the same time, sequence analysis shows that PwNHX gene includes a coding region about 1350bp with 99% identity comparing with transposon Tn10 IS10-left transposase of Shigella flexneri. On the one hand, the NHX gene may lose its function because it was inserted a fragment in coding region. On the other hand, its product may play a important role in salt tolerance. Populus grow in saline soil. It speculates that it may have other salt tolerance mechanism in Populus. The transposon can be used as transposon tagging to clone other genes and it will help us to understand farther the salt tolerance mechanism.
15969500	On the basis of cDNA sequences, we found that the calli of rice encodes an amino acid sequence that shares 56% and 89% identity, respectively, with oryzacystatin-I and oryzacystatin-II. This sequence differs from that of oryzacystatin-II in the N-terminal region (Gln(7)-Ala(19) in the oryzacystatin-III numbering), and this region contained a glycine residue (Gly(14)), which is evolutionarily conserved in the cystatin superfamily. We named this novel protein oryzacystatin-III. Nucleotide sequencing of the 5'-flanking region of the oryzacystatin-III gene showed that it is highly homologous to the oryzacystatin-II gene but distinct from the oryzacystatin-II locus. Oryzacystatin-III inhibited papain, ficin, and human cathepsin B. The inhibition constants for papain and ficin differ from those of oryzacystatin-I and -II, and cathepsin B activity is affected only by oryzacystatin-III, showing differences in the interaction of these inhibitors with enzymes. These data suggest that the above three inhibitors may play unique physiological roles in the regulations of rice cysteine proteinases.
15971577	It is critical to generate marker gene free transgenic plants for retransformating or eliminating the potential harmfulness of marker gene and its product. In this study, Ac/Ds transposon system was developed for removal of hpt selection marker gene to obtain marker-free transgenic plants in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Ds element containing the interesting gene bar was constructed next to the selection marker gene hpt to get Ds-T-DNA. Rice plants were transformed by Agrobacterium tumefaciens EHA105 containing Ac-T-DNA and Ds-T-DNA respectively. Rice plant containing single copy Ac-T-DNA was crossed with plant containing single copy Ds-T-DNA to obtain the F1 plant containing both Ac and Ds elements. F1 plant was self-crossed to produce F2 progeny in which T-DNA insert and transposed Ds element segregated independently. Two plants contained Ds element but no hpt marker gene in total 100 F2 plants. The result indicated that Ac/Ds transposon system could be used as a vector system for generating marker gene free transgenic plants in rice.
1597177	A full-length cDNA of rice lipoxygenase L-2 was cloned from 3-day-old seedlings. The identity of the clone was determined by amino acid sequencing of selected peptides of the purified enzyme and immunological characterization of an active enzyme that was produced from the cDNA in Escherichia coli by cultivation at 15 degrees C. The nucleotide sequence showed a strong bias toward G and C in the selection of nucleotides, especially at the third position of the codons (93% G/C). The complete amino acid sequence of the enzyme was deduced from the nucleotide sequence. The molecular mass of the enzyme was calculated to be 96,657 Da based on 865 amino acids. The amino acid sequence shares similarity with those of dicot lipoxygenases throughout the enzyme at a level of 50%. A hydropathy profile calculated from the amino acid sequence resembled those of dicot lipoxygenases, suggesting conservation of the secondary structure of these enzymes. The active enzyme, expressed in Escherichia coli, was characterized for pH dependence of the enzyme activity, intramolecular specificity, heat stability and Km. The enzyme had the same properties as the L-2 enzyme that was isolated from seedlings, but differed from the lipoxygenase L-3 isolated from mature plants.
15973037	A raw starch utilizing microbe was isolated from mud in a milling factory. The 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequencing and morphological properties of the strain indicated that it belongs to the genus Streptomyces. A strongly raw starch digesting amylase was purified from the culture supernatant of the strain by chromatographic procedures. The specific activity of the enzyme was 11.7 U/mg, molecular mass 47 kDa, optimum pH 6.0, and optimum temperature 50 to 60 degrees C. The enzyme showed sufficient activity even at 70 degrees C. It was activated by calcium, cobaltous, and magnesium ions, and inhibited by copper, nickel, zinc, and ferrous ions. It formed maltose mainly from raw and gelatinized starch, and glycogen. No products were formed from glucose, maltose, maltotriose, pullulan, or cyclodextrins (CDs). The enzyme digested raw wheat, rice, and waxy rice starch rapidly, and raw corn, waxy corn, sweet potato, tapioca, and potato starch normally.
15973045	The rice grains (RG) and rice seed proteins remaining in rice miso were investigated with a view point to the potential allergenicity of rice miso. RG ranging from 36 to 180 mg dry weight per g dry miso were separated from several samples of commercially available rice miso. Scanning electron microscopy of the recovered RG indicated that starch granules disappeared almost completely while protein bodies remained intact in RG. Most of the major seed proteins were extracted from RG by heating with 1% SDS/2% 2-mercaptoethanol and detected by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Major rice allergenic proteins, 14-16 kDa albumin (Alb14-16) and alpha-globulin (alpha-Glb) were also detected by immunoblotting using the specific antisera, and their contents were estimated to be 1.7 to 9.0 and 1 to 7 mg protein per g dry RG respectively. However, the major rice proteins, including glutelin and prolamin, in RG were insoluble in salt, alcohol, and urea solutions, but soluble in 6 M guanidine hydrochloride (Gu-HCl). By immunoblotting and ELISA, no Alb14-16 and only a slight amount of alpha-Glb were detected even in the 6 M Gu-HCl fraction, indicating that these major allergenic proteins are denatured and are present in an insoluble form in rice miso.
15973413	Disease resistance (R) genes in plants encode products that specifically recognise incompatible pathogens and trigger a cascade of events leading to disease resistance in the host plant. R-gene specificity is dictated by both host R genes and cognate avirulence (avr) genes in pathogens. However, the basis of gene-for-gene specificity is not well understood. Here, we report the cloning of the R gene Xa27 from rice and the cognate avr gene avrXa27 from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Resistant and susceptible alleles of Xa27 encode identical proteins. However, expression of only the resistant allele occurs when a rice plant is challenged by bacteria harbouring avrXa27, whose product is a nuclear localized type-III effector. Induction of Xa27 occurs only in the immediate vicinity of infected tissue, whereas ectopic expression of Xa27 resulted in resistance to otherwise compatible strains of the pathogen. Thus Xa27 specificity towards incompatible pathogens involves the differential expression of the R gene in the presence of the AvrXa27 effector.
15973995	G46B is a promising holding line used for three-lines breeding strategy in hybrid rice, but it is susceptible to blast disease caused by Pyricularia grisea. To improve its blast resistance, three rice varieties, Digu, BL-1, and Pi-4, with blast resistance genes, Pi-d(t), Pi-b, and Pi-ta2, respectively, were used to be crossed with G46B, and 15 plants with these three blast resistance genes, Pi-d(t)1, Pi-b, and Pi-ta2, were selected from their F2 and B1C1 populations via a marker-aided crossing procedure. Among them, four plants were heterozygotes in the three resistance genes, with the genotype of Pi-d(t)1 pi-d(t)/Pi-b pi-b/ Pi-ta2 pi-ta2; ten plants were heterozygotes in two of the three resistance genes, of which six with the genotype of Pi-d(t)1 Pi-d(t)1/Pi-b pi-b/Pi-ta2 pi-ta2, three with the genotype of Pi-d(t)1 pi-d(t)1/Pi-b pi-b/Pi-ta2 Pi-ta2, and one with the genotype of Pi-d(t)1pi-d(t)1/Pi-b Pi-b/Pi-ta2 pi-ta2; and only one plant was homozygote in two of the three resistance genes with the genotype of Pi-d(t)1 Pi-d(t)/Pi-b pi-b/Pi-ta2 Pi-ta2. These results demonstrate the capacity of maker-assisted selection (MAS) in gene pyramiding for rice blast resistance and its enhancement for the efficiency in rice resistance breeding.
15974665	Potential-energy surface of the CH3CO + O2 reaction has been calculated by ab initio quantum chemistry methods. The geometries were optimized using the second-order Moller-Plesset theory (MP2) with the 6-311G(d,p) basis set and the coupled-cluster theory with single and double excitations (CCSD) with the correlation consistent polarized valence double zeta (cc-pVDZ) basis set. The relative energies were calculated using the Gaussian-3 second-order Moller-Plesset theory with the CCSD/cc-pVDZ geometries. Multireference self-consistent-field and MP2 methods were also employed using the 6-311G(d,p) and 6-311++G(3df,2p) basis sets. Both addition/elimination and direct abstraction mechanisms have been investigated. It was revealed that acetylperoxy radical [CH3C(O)OO] is the initial adduct and the formation of OH and alpha-lactone [CH2CO2(1A')] is the only energetically accessible decomposition channel. The other channels, e.g., abstraction, HO2 + CH2CO, O + CH3CO2, CO + CH3O2, and CO2 + CH3O, are negligible. Multichannel Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory and transition state theory (E-resolved) were employed to calculate the overall and individual rate coefficients and the temperature and pressure dependences. Fairly good agreement between theory and experiments has been obtained without any adjustable parameters. It was concluded that at pressures below 3 Torr, OH and CH2CO2(1A') are the major nascent products of the oxidation of acetyl radicals, although CH2CO2(1A') might either undergo unimolecular decomposition to form the final products of CH2O + CO or react with OH and Cl to generate H2O and HCl. The acetylperoxy radicals formed by collisional stabilization are the major products at the elevated pressures. In atmosphere, the yield of acetylperoxy is nearly unity and the contribution of OH is only marginal.
15975187	To examine dietary change that has occurred over 5 to 6 years. A cohort of Scottish women (n=898) with a mean age of 47.5 years (range 45-54 years) at baseline. Dietary intake was assessed by validated food-frequency questionnaire (FFQ) and analysed using the UK Composition of Foods database. Since the first dietary assessment, mean daily energy intake had decreased from 8.2+/-2.3 to 7.9+/-2.2 MJ. The degree of low energy reporting (defined as ratio of energy intake to basal metabolic rate <1.1) had increased from 18.7% at baseline to 25.6% at follow-up. Low energy reporters were significantly heavier than 'normal' energy reporters (mean weight at follow-up, 68.9+/-12.6 vs. 66.8+/-11.3 kg) and could be deliberately restricting intake rather than underreporting. Overall there were decreases in intakes of red meat, processed meat and cheese, but increases in poultry and non-oily fish consumption. Consumption of bread, biscuits and cakes had gone down and there was an increase in cereal and rice/pasta consumption. Intake of potatoes had decreased whereas fruit intake had increased. There were small but statistically significant differences in intakes for most nutrients (<8% change). Nutrient intakes at both visits were similar across menopausal status and usage groups of hormone replacement therapy. Modifications to the computer version of the McCance and Widdowson nutrient database, which differed from the published version, were noted. These changes altered the original baseline values for our study. The menopause per se is not a period of marked change in nutrient intake. Caution is advised when using computer databases of food compositions for longitudinal studies.
15976269	Most agriculturally important traits are regulated by genes known as quantitative trait loci (QTLs) derived from natural allelic variations. We here show that a QTL that increases grain productivity in rice, Gn1a, is a gene for cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase (OsCKX2), an enzyme that degrades the phytohormone cytokinin. Reduced expression of OsCKX2 causes cytokinin accumulation in inflorescence meristems and increases the number of reproductive organs, resulting in enhanced grain yield. QTL pyramiding to combine loci for grain number and plant height in the same genetic background generated lines exhibiting both beneficial traits. These results provide a strategy for tailormade crop improvement.
15977066	We compared the immunomodulating effects of Phellinus linteus (PL), germinated brown rice (BR) and P. linteus grown on germinated brown rice (PB) on IgE production in murine mesenteric lymph node (MLN) lymphocytes. All extracts decreased IgE concentrations by 43--65% compared to control mice in both serum and MLN lymphocytes. In addition, PL and PB increased the proportion of CD4(+) T cells by 9% and 12% in MLN lymphocytes. IFN-gamma concentration, Th1 cytokine, was significantly increased by 44--67%, whereas IL-4 and IL-10 concentrations, Th2 cytokine, significantly decreased by 30--60% in the three treated groups compared to control group. These results suggest that PB suppresses IgE production through the modulation of Th1/Th2 balance to down-regulate Th2 response in MLN lymphocytes, even though a synergistic effect of PB was not found.
15977588	This paper describes dietary habits and attitudes toward body weight control of college women in Japan and examines their relationships with subjective symptoms of fatigue. We also discuss strategies to promote better diets among young adults. Self-reported questionnaires were distributed to 286 young women aged 18 to 25 years; 275 of these were analyzed. The study found that more than half of the women were concerned about nutritional balance and calories. Yet thirty percent ate "a single-item meal (i.e., bread, rice bowl, noodles) two or more times a day," while roughly one half skipped breakfast "sometimes" or "always." A majority ate vegetables "almost never" and consumed instant foods, confectionery, or sugary drinks "almost daily." Subjective symptoms of fatigue were significantly correlated with a higher frequency of irregular meal-taking, single-item meals, between-meal snacking, missed breakfasts, non-vegetable diets, non-fruit diets, and instant foods and confectionery. About sixty percent of the women in the study considered their bodies to be "slightly fat or overweight" while 79.5% indicated a desire to "lose weight". On average, the participants' ideal BMI was 18.7 (+/- 1.2) while the ideal body weight was 47.2 (+/- 4.1) kg, approximately 4 kg under actual average body weight. Subjective symptoms of fatigue were stronger among women who considered themselves "slightly fat or overweight". Likewise, symptoms were stronger to the extent that a participant's ideal BMI was below her actual BMI. Many women in this study desired to lose weight although they were not overweight by objective measures. The study suggests that subjective symptoms of fatigue are not the result of individual dietary habits, but rather of a lifestyle that reach to series of dietary habits connected to subjective symptoms of fatigue. The study also confirms the importance both of encouraging young women not just to eat well but to lead lifestyles in which they do not skip meals and of efforts that might help them to evaluate their own bodies more objectively.
15978034	Replication protein A (RPA), a heterotrimeric protein composed of 70, 32 and 14-kDa subunits, has been shown to be essential for DNA replication, repair, recombination, and transcription. Previously, we found that, in two seed plants, rice and Arabidopsis, there are two different types of RPA70-kDa subunit. Substantial biochemical and genetic characterization of these two subunits, termed OsRPA70a and OsRPA70b or AtRPA70a and AtRPA70b, respectively, is described in this report. Inactivation of AtRPA70a by transfer DNA insertion or RNA interference is lethal, so the complex containing RPA70a may be essential for DNA replication. Transfer DNA insertion and RNAi lines for AtRPA70b are morphologically normal, albeit hypersensitive to certain mutagens, such as UV-B and methyl methanesulfonate, suggesting that RPA70b functions mostly in DNA repair. In two-hybrid, pull-down and coexpression analysis, OsRPA70b was found to interact more selectively than OsRPA70a with OsRPA32. The data suggest that two different types of RPA heterotrimer are present in seed plants, and that there may be additional 32 and 14-kDa subunit homologs that interact with OsRPA70a. Each of the two probable plant RPA complexes may have different roles in DNA metabolism.
15978690	Rice straw is a by-product of rice production, and a great bioresource as raw biomass material for manufacturing value-adding protein for animal feedstock, which has been paid more and more attention. In the present work, utilizing rice straw hydrolysate as a substrate for microbial biomass production in 11.5L external-loop airlift bioreactors was investigated. Rice straw hydrolysate obtained through acid-hydrolyzing rice straw was used for the culture of yeast Candida arborea AS1.257. The influences of gas flow rate, initial liquid volume, hole diameter of gas sparger and numbers of sieve plates on microbial biomass production were examined. The best results in the external-loop airlift bioreactor were obtained under 9.0 L initial liquid volume, 1.1 (v/v)/min gas flow rate during culture time of 0-24 h and 1.4 (v/v)/min gas flow rate of 24-48 h at 29+/-1 degrees C. The addition of the sieve plates in the riser of the external-loop airlift bioreactor increased productivity. After 48 h, under optimized operation conditions, crude protein productivity with one sieve and two sieves were 13.6 mg/mL and 13.7 mg/mL, respectively, comparing 12.7 mg/mL without sieves in the airlift bioreactor and 11.7 mg/mL in the in the 10-L mechanically stirred tank bioreactor. It is feasible to operate the external-loop airlift bioreactors and possible to reduce the production cost for microbial biomass production from the rice straw hydrolysate.
15978837	OsNifU1A is a NifU-like rice (Oryza sativa) protein, discovered recently. Its amino acid sequence is very homologous to the sequence of cyanobacterial CnfU and to the sequences of NifU C-terminal domains. Based on its sequence, OsNifU1A is probably a modular structure consisting of two CnfU-like domains, with domain I (formed by residues Leu73 to Gly153) and domain II (formed by residues Leu154 to Ser226). Domain I have a conserved Cys-X-X-Cys motif, which may function as an iron-sulfur cluster assembly scaffold. Domain II lacks a Cys-X-X-Cys motif and therefore, cannot function analogously. Other NifU-like proteins, with sequences homologous to OsNifU1A domain II, have been identified during plant genomic projects; however, the biological roles of these domains remain unknown. We successfully constructed an Escherichia coli expression system for OsNifU1A domain II that enabled us to synthesize and purify milligram quantities of protein for use in structural and functional studies. Using the Gateway system, we built DNA sequences corresponding to two OsNifU1A domain II fusion proteins. One construct has a (His)6 sequence upstream of the OsNifU1A domain II sequence; the other has an upstream thioredoxin-(His)6 sequence. Recombinant OsNifU1A domain II fusion proteins were extracted from E. coli inclusion bodies by dissolving them in 6 M guanidine-HCl. About 36% of the total (His)6/OsNifU1A domain II fusion protein initially present remained soluble after guanidine-HCl was completely removed by step-wise dialysis; whereas, recovery of soluble Trx-(His)6 fusion protein was about 60% of the total cell lysate. About 2 mg of 15N-labeled OsNifU1A domain II was purified for NMR spectral studies. Examination of the OsNifU1A domain II 1H-15N HSQC NMR spectrum indicated that the purified protein was monomeric and correctly folded. Therefore, we established an efficient procedure for synthesis and purification of 15N-labeled OsNifU1A domain II in quantities sufficient for heteronuclear NMR solution structure studies.
15978851	The ACE1 avirulence gene allele from the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea was characterized in virulent isolate 2/0/3, revealing the insertion of a 1.9 kb MINE retrotransposon in the last ACE1 exon. MINE is a novel chimeric element composed of a transcribed non-coding sequence of 1.1 kb (WEIRD) fused to a 5'-truncated MGL retrotransposon. MINEs were found in high copy number in M. grisea isolates from rice (68 copies) and as a single copy in isolate CD156 from Eleusine. MINEs vary in size (1.3-6.7 kb) with conserved 5' WEIRD sequences and variable 3' MGL sequences. MGLs fused to WEIRDs correspond to different 5'-truncated MGLs with conserved 3' ends. The organization and diversity of MINEs suggest that these retrotransposons result from independent fusions between WEIRD and 5'-truncated MGLs. Such chimera could be formed during MGL reverse transcription as proposed for human U6-LINE1 chimeric retrotransposons and integrated into M. grisea genome using MGL machinery.
15978990	Phosphoric acid (H(3)PO(4)) and sodium hydroxide (NaOH) treated rice husks, followed by carbonization in a flowing nitrogen were used to study the adsorption of malachite green (MG) in aqueous solution. The effect of adsorption on contact time, concentration of MG and adsorbent dosage of the samples treated or carbonized at different temperatures were investigated. The results reveal that the optimum carbonization temperature is 500 degrees C in order to obtain adsorption capacity that is comparable to the commercial activated carbon for the husks treated by H(3)PO(4). It is interesting to note that MG adsorbed preferably on carbon-rich than on silica rich-sites. It is found that the behaviour of H(3)PO(4) treated absorbent followed both the Langmuir and Freundlich models while NaOH treated best fitted to only the Langmuir model.
15979720	In order to assess soil As contamination and potential risk for human, soil, paddy rice, vegetable and human hair samples from the areas near the industrial districts in Chenzhou, southern China were sampled and analyzed. The results showed that the anthropogenic industrial activities have caused in local agricultural soils to be contaminated with As in a range of 11.0-1217 mg/kg. The GIS-based map shows that soil contamination with As occurred on a large scale, which probably accounted for up to 30% of the total area investigated. Soil As concentration abruptly decreased with an increase in the distance from the polluting source. High As concentrations were found in the rice grain that ranged from 0.5 to 7.5 mg/kg, most of which exceed the maximal permissible limit of 1.0 mg/kg dry matter. Arsenic accumulated in significantly different levels between leafy vegetables and non-leafy vegetables. Non-leafy vegetables should be recommended in As-contaminated soils, as their edible parts were found in relatively low As level. Arsenic concentrations in 95% of the total human hair samples in the contaminated districts were above the critical value, 1.0 mg/kg, set by the World Health Organization. Arsenic could be enriched in human hair to very high levels without being affected by As containing water. The results revealed that the soils and plants grown on them are major contributors to elevate hair As in the industrial population. Therefore, the potential impact on human health of ingestion/inhalation of soil As around the industrial districts seems to be rather serious. Hence proper treatments for As contaminated soils are urgently needed to reduce the contamination.
15979983	DELLA proteins are repressors of gibberellin signaling in plants. Our previous studies have indicated that gibberellin signaling is derepressed by SCF(GID2)-mediated proteolysis of the DELLA protein, SLENDER RICE1 (SLR1), in rice. In addition, the gibberellin-dependent increase of phosphorylated SLR1 in the loss-of-function gid2 mutant suggests that the SCF(GID2)-mediated degradation of SLR1 might be initiated by gibberellin-dependent phosphorylation. To confirm the role of phosphorylation of SLR1 in its gibberellin-dependent degradation, we revealed that SLR1 is phosphorylated on an N-terminal serine residue(s) within the DELLA/TVHYNP and polyS/T/V domain. However, gibberellin-induced phosphorylation in these regions was not observed in the gid2 mutant following the constitutive expression of SLR1 under the control of the rice actin1 promoter. Treatment with gibberellin induced both the phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated forms of SLR1 with similar induction kinetics in gid2 mutant cells. Both the phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated SLR1 proteins were degraded by gibberellin treatment with a similar half-life in the rice callus cells, and both proteins interacted with recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)-GID2. These results demonstrate that the phosphorylation of SLR1 is independent of its degradation and is dispensable for the interaction of SLR1 with the GID2/F-box protein.
15980189	Many developmental and environmental signals are transduced through changes in intracellular calcium concentrations, yet only a few calcium-binding proteins have been identified in plants. Calcineurin B-like (CBL) proteins are calcium-binding proteins that are thought to function as plant signal transduction elements. RNA profiling using a rice (Oryza sativa cv Nipponbare) oligonucleotide microarray was used to monitor gene expression in de-embryonated rice grains. This analysis showed that a putative rice CBL gene responded to gibberellic acid, but not abscisic acid, treatment. The CBL gene family in rice contains at least 10 genes and these have extensive similarity to the CBLs of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). In yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assays, rice CBLs interact with the kinase partners of Arabidopsis CBLs. Only one rice CBL gene, OsCBL2, is up-regulated by GA in the aleurone layer. A homolog with 91% sequence identity to OsCBL2 was cloned from barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Himalaya), and designated HvCBL2. We examined the localization and function of OsCBL2 and HvCBL2 in rice and barley aleurone because changes in cytosolic calcium have been implicated in the response of the aleurone cell to GA. Green fluorescent protein translational fusions of OsCBL2 and OsCBL3 were localized to the tonoplast of aleurone cell protein storage vacuoles and OsCBL4-green fluorescent protein was localized to the plasma membrane. Data from experiments using antisense expression of OsCBL2 and HvCBL2 are consistent with a role for OsCBL2 in promoting vacuolation of barley aleurone cells following treatment with GA.
15980199	Nucleosome assembly protein 1 (NAP1) is conserved from yeast to human and facilitates the in vitro assembly of nucleosomes as a histone chaperone. Inconsistent with their proposed function in the nucleus, however, many NAP1 proteins had been reported to localize in the cytoplasm. We investigated the subcellular localization of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and rice (Oryza sativa) NAP1 family proteins first by identification of interacting partners and by direct examination of the localization of green fluorescent protein-tagged proteins. Through treatment of tobacco cells with leptomycin B and mutagenesis of nuclear export signal, we demonstrated that Nicta;NAP1;1 and Orysa;NAP1;1 shuttle between the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Together with the demonstration that tobacco NAP1 proteins bind histone H2A and H2B, our results support the current model and provide additional evidence that function of NAP1 as histone chaperones appears to be conserved in plants. In addition, we show that tobacco NAP1 proteins interact with tubulin and the mitotic cyclin Nicta;CYCB1;1, suggesting a role for NAP1 in microtubule dynamics. Interestingly, in spite of their high homology with the above NAP1 proteins, the other three tobacco proteins and Orysa;NAP1;2 did not show nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and were localized only in the cytoplasm. Moreover, Orysa;NAP1;3 that lacks a typical nuclear localization signal sequence was localized in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Finally, we show that only Orysa;NAP1;3 could be phosphorylated by casein kinase 2alpha in vitro. However, this phosphorylation was not responsible for nuclear import of Orysa;NAP1;3 as being demonstrated through mutagenesis studies. Together, our results provide an important step toward elucidating the molecular mechanism of function of the NAP1 family proteins in plants.
15980201	Vitamin B(1) (thiamine) is an essential nutrient for humans. Vitamin B(1) deficiency causes beriberi, which disturbs the central nervous and circulatory systems. In countries in which rice (Oryza sativa) is a major food, thiamine deficiency is prevalent because polishing of rice removes most of the thiamine in the grain. We demonstrate here that thiamine, in addition to its nutritional value, induces systemic acquired resistance (SAR) in plants. Thiamine-treated rice, Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and vegetable crop plants showed resistance to fungal, bacterial, and viral infections. Thiamine treatment induces the transient expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes in rice and other plants. In addition, thiamine treatment potentiates stronger and more rapid PR gene expression and the up-regulation of protein kinase C activity. The effects of thiamine on disease resistance and defense-related gene expression mobilize systemically throughout the plant and last for more than 15 d after treatment. Treatment of Arabidopsis ecotype Columbia-0 plants with thiamine resulted in the activation of PR-1 but not PDF1.2. Furthermore, thiamine prevented bacterial infection in Arabidopsis mutants insensitive to jasmonic acid or ethylene but not in mutants impaired in the SAR transduction pathway. These results clearly demonstrate that thiamine induces SAR in plants through the salicylic acid and Ca(2+)-related signaling pathways. The findings provide a novel paradigm for developing alternative strategies for the control of plant diseases.
15983016	Grain-filling is a crucial process that determines final grain yield in rice (Oryza sativa L.). To understand the genetic basis of dynamics of grain-filling, quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis was conducted using time-related phenotypic data on grain-filling collected from a population of 155 recombinant inbred lines (F12), derived from a cross between Milyang 23 and Akihikari. Two QTLs detected on chromosomes 8 and 12 were strongly associated with increased filling percentage per panicle. These QTLs were not linked with those controlling spikelet numbers per panicle. This result confers the possibility of improving grain-filling together with an enlargement of sink size. The QTL for filling percentage per panicle on chromosome 8 exactly overlapped that for non-structural carbohydrate (NSC) content in the culm and leaf sheaths during grain-filling, and the Milyang 23 allele associated with increased grain-filling percentage per panicle was associated with decreased NSC content. Therefore, this QTL may be directly involved in NSC translocation from the culm and leaf sheaths to panicle. In addition, the Milyang 23 alleles of QTLs associated with greater spikelet number per panicle on chromosomes 1 and 6 were also related with a reduction in NSC content in the culm and leaf sheaths during grain-filling. These results indicate that NSC dynamics during grain-filling is partly dependent on sink size. NSC accumulation in the culm and leaf sheaths at the heading stage was mainly controlled by different genetic regulations from NSC dynamics during grain-filling. Nitrogen dynamics during grain-filling may also be involved in carbohydrate dynamics.
15983537	The objective of this cross-sectional study was to compare dietary reports from a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) for US Chinese women with 24-hour recall estimates. The subjects were 56 women recruited through organizations in Philadelphia's Chinese community. Spearman correlations were used to describe FFQ estimates of food servings per month and nutrient intake per day vs estimates from three 24-hour recalls over 1 month. On average, women reported at least weekly consumption of 28 of 96 FFQ food items. The three most frequently consumed were rice (38 times/month), tea (29 times/month), and dark green, leafy vegetables (18 times/month). Comparing reported frequencies of the 28 foods to 24-hour recall estimates, the median Spearman correlation was 0.36. For nutrient estimates, correlations were high (r >0.5) for dietary fiber and calcium; moderate (r =0.25 to 0.5) for energy, saturated fat, cholesterol, carbohydrates, protein, folic acid, and iron; but poor (r <0.25) for total fat, vitamin C, vitamin A, and carotene. These findings provide some assurance of the FFQ's adequacy for describing US Chinese women's intake of commonly consumed foods and selected nutrients. They also provide a basis for further improvements to, and evaluations of, the FFQ.
15983804	This study evaluated the effect of red mold rice supplementation on antifatigue and exercise-related changes in lipid peroxidation of male adult Wistar rats through swimming exercise. Thirty 16-week-old rats were studied by dividing them into three groups (ten for each group). Other than the control group (CD), the other two groups were divided into a high-dose (HD) treatment group (5 g red mold rice/kg body weight for the HD group), and a low-dose (LD) group (1 g red mold rice/kg body weight for the LD group). Swimming endurance tests were conducted after 28 days of red mold rice supplementation, and the result showed that the treatment group showed a higher exercise time (CD, 78.0+/-6.4; LD, 104.2+/-9.6; and HD, 129.4+/-10.9 min; p<0.05) and a higher blood glucose concentration (CD, 76.67+/-8.08; LD, 111.34+/-8.50; and HD, 117.67+/-11.06 mg/dl; p<0.05) than the CD. Moreover, the blood lactate (CD, 45.00+/-0.90; LD, 31.41+/-1.80; and HD, 28.89+/-1.62 mg/dl; p<0.05), blood urea nitrogen (CD, 21.87+/-0.75; LD, 20.33+/-0.83; and HD, 20.53+/-1.09 mg/dl; p<0.05), and hemoglobin (CD, 14.20+/-0.21; LD, 13.70+/-0.55; and HD, 13.28+/-0.35 g/dl; p<0.05) were also significantly lower than those of the CD. Besides, the result suggested that the red mold rice supplementation may decrease the contribution of exercise-induced oxidative stress and improve the physiological condition of the rats.
15983871	Invertases catalyze the irreversible hydrolysis of sucrose to glucose and fructose. Plants contain two unrelated families of these enzymes: acid forms that derive from periplasmic invertases of eubacteria and are found in cell wall and vacuole, and neutral/alkaline forms evolved from the cytosolic invertases of cyanobacteria. Genomes of rice (Oryza sativa) and thale cress (Arabidopsis thaliana) contain multiple genes encoding these two families. Here for rice we identify the member genes of a cell-wall group (designated OsCIN1-9), a vacuolar group (OsVIN1-2), and two ancient neutral/alkaline groups: alpha (OsNIN1-4) and beta (OsNIN5-8). In Arabidopsis these groups contain six, two, four and five members, respectively. It is believed that the vacuolar group evolved from the cell-wall group. We provide evidence that the N-terminal signal peptide that directs cell-wall invertases co-translationally into the endoplasmic reticulum for secretion was replaced in the vacuolar group by a sequence similar to the complex N-terminal motif that targets alkaline phosphatase post-translationally to the vacuolar membrane of yeast. Since the last common ancestor of Arabidopsis and rice, the two invertase families evolved equally rapidly via gene duplication and gene loss, but the acid invertase family underwent approximately 10 events of intron loss compared with a single event of intron gain in the neutral/alkaline invertase family. Transcripts were detected for all rice invertase genes except OsCIN9. The acid invertase genes showed greater spatial and temporal diversity of expression than the neutral/alkaline genes.
15983872	The grasses (Poaceae) represent a monophyletic lineage that arose about 70 million years ago. The lineage contains about 10,000 species that differ widely in morphology and physiology. Species show striking differences in genome size, a feature important in the context of conservation of gene content and order (synteny and colinearity) and in the extension of genomic information directly from one grass species to another using comparative approaches. Grass diversification has been a contentious issue, as the exact branching order of the various subfamilies has been difficult to establish with standard methods. This motivated an evolutionary study of deep phylogenetic relationships based on the structure of coding and non-coding RNA molecules and on chromosomal rearrangements. Phylogenetic relationships in the grass family were inferred directly from the structure of RNA using cladistic principles and considerations in statistical mechanics. Coded attributes describing topological and thermodynamic information embedded in RNA molecules were treated as linearly ordered multi-state characters and were polarized by fixing the direction of character transformation toward molecular order. Intrinsically rooted phylogenies derived from the structure of signal recognition particle (SRP) RNA, the mRNA encoded by the early nodulation gene enod40, the small subunit of ribosomal RNA (rRNA), and the internal transcribed spacer ITS1 of rRNA established an order for the diversification of major grass lineages, suggesting a sister relationship of the Pooideae and the PACCAD clade. This same conclusion was reached when large-scale chromosomal rearrangements derived from the comparative genetic mapping of cereal genomes were studied. Chromosomal complements aligned in the most parsimonious manner allowed identification and coding of characters depicting chromosomal translocations, insertions, and linkage block arrangements and the reconstruction of phylogenetic trees based on large-scale chromosomal structure. Congruent reconstruction of deep branching relationships using geometrical and statistical features of RNA structure and orthology and large scale chromosomal recombination events support assumptions of polarization in character argumentation, and fail to falsify the claim that extant grass chromosomes can be considered combinations of linkage blocks of an ancestor of the rice genome. Congruence also suggests that the universal tendency toward order in RNA and the search for the most parsimonious organization of be genome architecture appear to be mutually supported drivers of molecular evolution. The study clarifies the relationship of major clades in the grasses, shows that phylogenetic history can be reconstructed effectively from the combinatorial exchange of chromosomal linkage blocks, and reveals considerable phylogenetic signal embedded in the structure of signal polypeptide-coding mRNA molecules, describing an instance where mRNA structure is the subject of strong evolutionary constraint.
15984980	Food hypersensitivity is a common perception among irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) patients. Data from dietary elimination and food challenge studies support an etiopathological role of diet in IBS, but there are no well-established tests to identify food hypersensitivity. To compare IgG4 and IgE titers to common food antigens in IBS and controls. One hundred and eight IBS [52 diarrhea-predominant (D-IBS); 32 constipation-predominant (C-IBS); 24 alternating (Alt-IBS)], and 43 controls were included in the study. IgG4 and IgE titers and skin prick testing (SPT) to 16 common foods including milk, eggs, cheese, wheat, rice, potatoes, chicken, beef, pork, lamb, fish, shrimps, soya bean, yeast, tomatoes, and peanuts were measured. IBS had significantly higher IgG4 titers (mug/L) to wheat (395 IQR +/- 1,011 vs 0 IQR +/- 285, p < 0.001), beef (1,079 IQR +/- 930 vs 617 IQR +/- 435, p < 0.001), pork (481 IQR +/- 379 vs 258 IQR +/- 496, p < 0.001), and lamb (241 IQR +/- 460 vs 167 IQR +/- 232, p= 0.009) compared to controls. These differences were maintained across all three subgroups. The antibody titers to potatoes, rice, fish, chicken, yeast, tomato, and shrimps were not significantly different. No significant difference in IgE titers was observed between IBS and controls. SPT was positive for only a single antigen in 5 of 56 patients tested with the same panel of foods. No correlation was seen between the pattern of elevated IgG4 antibody titers and patients' symptoms. Serum IgG4 antibodies to common foods like wheat, beef, pork, and lamb are elevated in IBS patients. In keeping with the observation in other atopic conditions, this finding suggests the possibility of a similar pathophysiological role for IgG4 antibodies in IBS.
15985400	The RAPD analysis was conducted on genome DNA from 21 sets of rice, including 6 three-line hybrid rice combinations, separately derived from three different kinds of cytoplasmic male sterile (CMS) lines and their related parents. Out of 264 random primers screened first, 25 primers displayed well in polymorphisms. It was shown that only 7 bands amplified respectively from 7 primers were enough to discriminate the different types of CMS, the hybrid combinations and their parents.
15985401	The Xa21 gene previously cloned from the wild rice species Oryzae longistaminata confers broad-spectrum resistance to rice leaf blight caused by different strains of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Here we attempted to determine the existence of Xa21 homologs in other wild rice species and rice cultivars and the sequence differences between the homologs. We synthesized specific primers based on the reported Xa21 sequence to amplify homologs of the gene exon II from several rice cultivars and three wild rice species in Yunnan Province, China. The fragments cloned from various types of O. rufipogon Griff from Jinghong and Yuanjiang, Yunnan Province, were highly homologous to the reported Xa21 gene exon II. However, the fragment was not found in O. officinalis Wall. and O. meyeriana Baill. Sequence analysis suggested that differences in nucleotides were located randomly in the fragments we cloned.
15985407	Based on the published gene sequence of tetraploid potato (Solanum.tuberosum) protease-inhibitor II, a genomic DNA and a cDNA sequence of potato protease-inhibitor II gene were obtained from the cDNA library and the genomic DNA of a diploid potato IVP101 (Solanum.phurejia) using PCR method and named PINII-2x. Nucleotide sequencing confirmed that the full-length DNA of PINII-2x was 580 bp, including an 115 bp intron and two exons. cDNA was 462 bp (stop codon TGA not included) and had 88% similarity to the tetraploid potato protease-inhibitor II. The PINII-2x open reading frame encodes a 154-amino acid polypeptide with a predicated size of 16.6 KD and a calculated PI of 6.08. The deduced proteins from PINII-2x cDNA had 93% homology with other tetraploid potato protease-inhibitor II, which contain the intact signal peptide and two active site similar to the potato protease-inhibitor II family. Test of the RT-PCR indicated that PINII-2x mRNA is wound- induced expression in potato leaves. Binary vector of PINII-2x cDNA drove by either rice Actin I promoter (ActI) or maize Ubiquitin promoter (Ubi) was constructed.
15985420	Rice blast disease, caused by heterothallic ascomycete Magnaporthe grisea, is one of the most serious fungal diseases of rice throughout the world. The disease attacks rice plants throughout the season and causes severe yield losses. The pathogenesis of M. grisea is due to a complex process that spans the entire life cycle of the pathogen. The process including germination of conidia, formation of appressoria, differentiation of penetration pegs and proliferation of infectious hyphae is controlled by many genes. The interaction between M. grisea and rice is based on the gene-for-gene hypothesis and the defense responses are often activated by the action of the pathogen avirulence (Avr) gene and the host resistance (R) gene. The studies on molecular biology and genetic mechanism of pathogenicity of M. grisea has occupied pathologists and mycologists for several decades. This paper reviews the research progress related to molecular genetics of pathogenicity of the fungus and its genetic diversity and variation, and summarize research methods of the functional genes.
15986886	Leaves of the two new chlorophyll b-less rice mutants VG28-1, VG30-5 and the wild type rice cv. Zhonghua 11 were subjected to temperatures 28, 36, 40, 44 and 48 degrees C in the dark for 30 min or gradually elevated temperature from 30 degrees C to 80 degrees C at 0.5 degrees C/min. The thermostability of photosynthetic apparatus was estimated by the changes in chlorophyll fluorescence parameters, photosynthetic rate and pigment content, chloroplast ultrastructure and tissue location of H2O2 accumulation. There were different patterns of F(o)-temperature curves between the Chl b-less mutants and the wild type plant, and the temperature of F(o) rising threshold was shifted 3 degrees C lower in the Chl b-less mutants (48 degrees C) than in the wild type (51 degrees C). At temperature up to about 45 degrees C, chloroplasts were swollen and thylakoid grana became misty accompanied with the complete loss of photosynthetic oxygen evolution in the two Chl b-less mutants, but chloroplast ultrastructure in the wild type showed no obvious alteration. After 55 degrees C exposure, the disordered thylakoid and significant H2O2 accumulation in leaves were found in the two Chl b-less mutants, whereas in the wild type plant, less H2O2 was accumulated and the swollen thylakoid still maintained a certain extent of stacking. A large extent of the changes in qP, NPQ and Fv/Fm was consistent with the Pn decreasing rate in the Chl b-less mutants during high temperature treatment as compared with the wild type. The results indicated that the Chl b-less mutants showed a tendency for higher thermosensitivity, and loss of Chl b in LHC II could lead to less thermostability of PSII structure and function. Heat damage to photosynthetic apparatus might be partially attributed to the internal oxidative stress produced at severely high temperature.
15986920	Arabidopsis NPR1/NIM1 is a key regulator of systemic acquired resistance (SAR), which confers lasting broad-spectrum resistance. Previous reports indicate that rice has a disease-resistance pathway similar to the Arabidopsis SAR pathway. Here we report the isolation and characterization of a rice NPR1 homologue (NH1). Transgenic rice plants overexpressing NH1 (NH1ox) acquire high levels of resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. The resistance phenotype is heritable and correlates with the presence of the transgene and reduced bacterial growth. Northern analysis shows that NH1ox rice spontaneously activates defense genes, contrasting with NPR1-overexpressing Arabidopsis, where defense genes are not activated until induction. Wild-type NH1, but not a point mutant corresponding to npr1-1, interacts strongly with the rice transcription factor rTGA2.2 in yeast two-hybrid. Greenhouse-grown NH1ox plants develop lesion-mimic spots on leaves at preflowering stage although no other developmental effects are observed. However, when grown in growth chambers (GCs) under low light, NH1ox plants are dwarfed, indicating elevated sensitivity to light. The GC-grown NH1ox plants show much higher salicylic acid (SA) levels than the wild type, whereas greenhouse-grown NH1ox plants contain lower SA. These results indicate that NH1 may be involved in the regulation of SA in response to environmental changes.
15986924	The hrp gene cluster of Xanthomonas spp. contains genes for the assembly and function of a type III secretion system (TTSS). The hrpF genes reside in a region between hpaB and the right end of the hrp cluster. The region of the hrpF gene of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is bounded by two IS elements and also contains a homolog of hpaF of X. campestris pv. vesicatoria and two newly identified genes, hpa3 and hpa4. A comparison of the hrp gene clusters of different species of Xanthomonas revealed that the hrpF region is a constant yet more variable peninsula of the hrp pathogenicity island. Mutations in hpaF, hpa3, and hpa4 had no effect on virulence, whereas hrpF mutants were severely reduced in virulence on susceptible rice cultivars. The hrpF genes from X. campestris pv. vesicatoria, X. campestris pv. campestris, and X. axonopodis pv. citri each were capable of restoring virulence to the hrpF mutant of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. Correspondingly, none of the Xanthomonas pathovars with hrpF from X. oryzae pv. oryzae elicited a hypersensitive reaction in their respective hosts. Therefore, no evidence was found for hrpF as a host-specialization factor. In contrast to the loss of Bs3-dependent reactions by hrpF mutants of X. campestris pv. vesicatoria, hrpF mutants of X. oryzae pv. oryzae with either avrXa10 or avrXa7 elicited hypersensitive reactions in rice cultivars with the corresponding R genes. A double hrpFxoo-hpa1 mutant also elicited an Xa10-dependent resistance reaction. Thus, loss of hrpF, hpal, or both may reduce delivery or effectiveness of type III effectors. However, the mutations did not completely prevent the delivery of effectors from X. oryzae pv. oryzae into the host cells.
15987696	Rice (Oryza sativa) is one of the most important cereal plants in the world. Wild-abortive (WA) and Honglian (HL) cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) have been used extensively in the production of hybrid seeds. Although a variable number of fertility-restorer genes (Rf) for WA and HL-CMS have been identified in various cultivars, information on Rf in Oryza species with the AA-genome is sparse. Therefore the distribution and heredity of Rf for WA and HL-CMS in wild rice species of Oryza with the AA-genome were investigated. Fertility-restorer genes for WA and HL-CMS in wild rice species with the AA-genome were investigated by following the fertility of microspores identified by I2-KI staining and by following the seed-setting rate of spikelets. A genetic model of Rf in some selected restorer accessions was analysed based on the fertility segregation of BC1F1 populations. Fertility analysis showed that 21 out of 35 HL-type F1s, and 13 out of 31 WA-type F1s were scored as fertile. The frequency of Rf in wild rice was 60% for HL-CMS and 41.9% for WA-CMS, respectively. The fertility-restorer accessions, especially those with complete restoring ability, aggregated mainly in two species of O. rufipogon and O. nivara. The wild rice accessions with Rf for HL-CMS were distributed in Asia, Oceania, Latin American and Africa, but were centered mainly in Asia, whilst the wild restorer accessions for WA-CMS were limited only to Asia and Africa. Apart from one restorer accession that possessed two pairs of Rf for WA-CMS, all of the other nine tested wild restorer accessions each contained only a single Rf for WA-CMS or HL-CMS. Allele analysis indicated that there existed at least three Rf loci for the WA and HL-CMS systems. These data support the hypothesis that fertility-restorer genes exist widely in Oryza species with the AA-genome, and that Rf in Oryza sativa originated from the Oryza rufipogon/Oryza nivara complex, the ancestor of cultivated rice in Asia. The origin and evolution of Rf is tightly linked to that of CMS in wild rice, and fertility of a given CMS type is controlled by several Rf alleles in various wild restorer accessions.
15987817	Splicing of rare, U12-type or AT-AC introns is mediated by a distinct spliceosome that assembles from U11, U12, U4atac, U6atac, and U5 snRNPs. Although in human cells the protein composition of minor and major snRNPs is similar, differences, particularly in U11 and U12 snRNPs, have been recently described. We have identified an Arabidopsis U11 snRNP-specific 35K protein as an interacting partner of an RS-domain-containing cyclophilin. By using a transient expression system in Arabidopsis protoplasts, we show that the 35K protein incorporates into snRNP. Oligo affinity selection and glycerol gradient centrifugation revealed that the Arabidopsis 35K protein is present in monomeric U11 snRNP and in U11/U12-di snRNP. The interaction of the 35K protein with Arabidopsis SR proteins together with its strong sequence similarity to U1-70K suggests that its function in splicing of minor introns is analogous to that of U1-70K. Analysis of Arabidopsis and Oryza sativa genome sequences revealed that all U11/U12-di-snRNP-specific proteins are conserved in dicot and monocot plants. In addition, we have identified an Arabidopsis gene encoding the homolog of U4atac snRNA and a second Arabidopsis gene encoding U6atac snRNA. Secondary structure predictions indicate that the Arabidopsis U4atac is able to form dimeric complexes with both Arabidopsis U6atac snRNAs. As revealed by RNaseA/T1 protection assay, the U4atac snRNA gene is expressed as an ~160-nt RNA, whereas the second U6atac snRNA gene seems to be a pseudogene. Taken together, our data indicate that recognition and splicing of minor, AT-AC introns in plants is highly similar to that in humans.
15987878	While transposons have traditionally been viewed as genomic parasites or "junk DNA," the discovery of transposon-derived host genes has fueled an ongoing debate over the evolutionary role of transposons. In particular, while mobility-related open reading frames have been known to acquire host functions, the contribution of these types of events to the evolution of genes is not well understood. Here we report that genome-wide searches for Mutator transposase-derived host genes in Arabidopsis thaliana (Columbia-0) and Oryza sativa ssp. japonica (cv. Nipponbare) (domesticated rice) identified 121 sequences, including the taxonomically conserved MUSTANG1. Syntenic MUSTANG1 orthologs in such varied plant species as rice, poplar, Arabidopsis, and Medicago truncatula appear to be under purifying selection. However, despite the evidence of this pathway of gene evolution, MUSTANG1 belongs to one of only two Mutator-like gene families with members in both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, suggesting that Mutator-like elements seldom evolve into taxonomically widespread host genes.
15988131	Variation in growth, grain size and grain storage protein content of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in response to elevated UV-B radiation under sunlight was examined in a cool rice-growing region of Miyagi Prefecture, Japan, in 1999, 2001 and 2002. Tiller number, dry mass, panicle number, grain yield and grain size significantly decreased under elevated UV-B radiation in 2001 and 2002. The effects of elevated UV-B radiation on the reduction of each growth parameter were greatly enhanced by daily lower temperature during the ripening stage in those two years. On the contrary, total grain nitrogen content and grain storage protein content significantly increased under elevated UV-B radiation in 2001 and 2002. Among grain storage proteins, glutelin content significantly increased but albumin-globulin and prolamin contents did not. It was thus evident that not only grain size but also grain storage protein of rice was markedly influenced due to elevated UV-B radiation.
15988133	The UV-B radiation contained in solar radiation has deleterious effects on plant growth, development and physiology. Specific damage to DNA caused by UV radiation involves the cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimers (CPD) and the pyrimidine (6-4) pyrimidone photoproducts. CPDs are repaired by CPD photolyase via a UV-A/blue light-dependent mechanism. The gene for the class II CPD photolyase has been cloned from higher plants such as Arabidopsis, cucumbers and rice. We isolated and characterized the cDNA and a genomic clone encoding the spinach class II CPD photolyase. The gene consisted of 3777 bases and 9 exons. The sequence of amino acids predicted from the nucleotide sequence of the cDNA of the gene was highly homologous to that of the higher plants listed above. When a photolyase-deficient Escherichia coli strain was transformed with the cDNA, photoreactivation activity was partially restored, by the illumination with photoreactivating light, resulting in an increased survival and decreased content of CPDs in the Escherichia coli genome. In both the male and female plants, the gene was highly expressed in leaves and flowers under the condition of 14-h light and 10-h dark cycle. The expression in the roots was quite low compared with the other organs.
15990632	To evaluate the short term effect of oil supplementation of complementary food on total ad libitum consumption in breastfed infants. Twenty infants between 6 to 10 months of age were studied in a tertiary hospital in New Delhi for 48 hours. They were given three semi-solid complementary feeds per day and ad libitum breastfeeding. No other food or fluid was allowed during the study period. A traditional gruel made of rice and pulses with high energy density (oil added; caloric density = 35 kcal/100 g) or low energy density (without oil; caloric density = 20 kcal/100 g) was offered in a randomized manner on consecutive days to all infants. Total caloric intake from breast milk and semi-solids was computed for each day. Infants consumed an equivalent amount of semi-solid (mean difference, 10.75 g/day; 95% confidence interval, 10.56 to 32.06; P = 0.304) and a lower amount of breast milk (mean difference, 121.1 g/day; 95% confidence interval, 35.13 to 207.16; P = 0.008) when high energy density feeds were offered. Although the caloric intake from semi-solids increased significantly (18.9 kcal/day; 95% confidence interval, 12.9 to 24.8; P < 0.001) with the high density diet, the total caloric intake (breast milk and study feeds) decreased (mean difference = 59.6 kcal/day; 95% confidence interval, 5.95 to 113.34; P = 0.031). An inverse relationship was found between caloric density of semi-solids and breast milk intake (r = 0.34, r = 0.12, P = 0.032). In the short term, oil supplementation of complementary food in breastfed infants does not translate into enhanced total caloric intake, primarily as a result of breast milk displacement.
15993528	Accumulation of o-chlorophenol (CP), 2,4-dichlorophenol (DCP), and atrazine (ATR), as single and mixed contaminants, from hydroponic solutions into roots and shoots of rice seedlings was studied following 48-h exposure of the plant roots. As single contaminants at low levels, the observed bioconcentration factors (BCFs) of CP and DCP with roots approximated the equilibrium values according to the partition-limited model. The BCF of atrazine with roots was about half the partition limit for unknown reasons. The BCFs of CP and ATR with shoots also approximated the partition limits, while the BCF for more lipophilic DCP with shoots was about half the estimated limit, due to insufficient water transport into plants for DCP. As mixed contaminants at low levels, the BCFs with both roots and shoots were comparable with those for the single contaminants; at high levels, the BCFs generally decreased because of the enhanced mixed-contaminant phytotoxicity, as manifested by the greatly reduced plant transpiration rate.
15993837	Previously, we described a novel DNA polymerase, designated as OsPolI-like, from rice. The OsPolI-like showed a high degree of sequence homology with the DNA polymerase I of cyanobacteria and was localized in the plastid. Here, we describe two PolI-like polymerases, designated as AtPolI-like A and AtPolI-like B, from Arabidopsis thaliana. In situ hybridization analysis demonstrated expression of both mRNAs in proliferating tissues such as the shoot apical meristem. Analysis of the localizations of GFP fusion proteins showed that AtPolI-like A and AtPolI-like B were localized to plastids. AtPolI-like B expression could be induced by exposure to the mutagen H(2)O(2). These results suggested that AtPolI-like B has a role in the repair of oxidation-induced DNA damage. Our data indicate that higher plants possess two plastid DNA polymerases that are not found in animals and yeasts.
15994910	We have identified a rice (Oryza sativa) brassinosteroid (BR)-deficient mutant, BR-deficient dwarf2 (brd2). The brd2 locus contains a single base deletion in the coding region of Dim/dwf1, a homolog of Arabidopsis thaliana DIMINUTO/DWARF1 (DIM/DWF1). Introduction of the wild-type Dim/dwf1 gene into brd2 restored the normal phenotype. Overproduction and repression of Dim/dwf1 resulted in contrasting phenotypes, with repressors mimicking the brd2 phenotype and overproducers having large stature with increased numbers of flowers and seeds. Although brd2 contains low levels of common 6-oxo-type BRs, the severity of the brd2 phenotype is much milder than brd1 mutants and most similar to d2 and d11, which show a semidwarf phenotype at the young seedling stage. Quantitative analysis suggested that in brd2, the 24-methylene BR biosynthesis pathway is activated and the uncommon BR, dolichosterone (DS), is produced. DS enhances the rice lamina joint bending angle, rescues the brd1 dwarf phenotype, and inhibits root elongation, indicating that DS is a bioactive BR in rice. Based on these observations, we discuss an alternative BR biosynthetic pathway that produces DS when Dim/dwf1 is defective.
15996714	Pesticide application to rice paddies may affect the quality of environmental resources such as groundwater and surface water. The distribution of residues of tricyclazole, an environmentally persistent fungicide used widely in Italy, was monitored in the network of surface water bodies surrounding the main rice production area in Italy. The location of monitoring sites was based on the potential risk for contamination with tricyclazole. This was determined as a function of the area of rice grown, the geographical distribution of rice crops susceptible to the pest, and sales of tricyclazole. Monitoring sites were also located to represent different spatial scales (farm, catchment and basin). For water samples taken shortly after application in July and August, the highest concentrations of tricyclazole were measured at the farm sites. However, residues were also detected at the catchment and basin scale. The 95% of the measured residue levels was below 9.80, 1.20 and 1.15 microg l(-1), at the farm, catchment and basin scales, respectively. In sediment, tricyclazole residues were detected in 12 out 176 samples collected with the 95% of the measured residue levels below the concentration of 0.03 mg kg(-1). Residues were sporadically detected in samples taken after the crop was harvested in November and December. Variables such as the scale of sampling, the season and the year, were significant in determining pesticide residue distribution. The type of water body was less significant.
15997186	The experiment was aimed to test the efficacy of sugar cane extract (SCE) on the modulation of pig immunity under field conditions. The SCE preparation consisted of sugar cane extract (20%) and oilcake of rice bran (80%). SCE (500 mg/kg of body weight per day) was fed to weanling pigs on 3 consecutive days per week for 4 weeks. The results showed a significant enhancement of cytotoxicity of natural killer (NK) cells and phagocytosis by neutrophils and monocytes, compared to untreated pigs. The enhancement of NK cell function may have protected against porcine reproductive respiratory syndrome (PRRS), as there was a reduction in seroconversion rates in treated pigs. Moreover, SCE-treated pigs showed a 7.87% growth enhancement compared with untreated controls. Thus SCE produces an immunostimulative effect on porcine innate immunity that may provide protection against pathogens.
15997778	The polychlorinated quaterphenyl (PCQ) concentrations in the blood are important discriminative parameters in Yusho patients. In this study, the analytical method of PCQ was improved, and a high speed and precision analysis could be achieved. A recovery test showed satisfactory recoveries of 99.5% (RSD4.8%, n = 5). Using this method, the authors analyzed 62 blood samples which were collected from the 2004 annual inspection for Kanemi rice oil poisoning. PCQ was detected in 20 blood samples (ranging from 0.03 to 4.15 ng/g). The average concentration was 2.07 ng/g in the pattern A (typical Yusho patients), 0.76 ng/g in the pattern B, 0.18 ng/g in the pattern BC and 0.01 ng/g in the pattern C, respectively.
15997780	Thirty-six years have passed since the outbreak of Kanemi rice oil poisoning, namely, Yusho in the western Japan. However, even now the patients with Yusho have been still suffering from several objective and subjective symptoms. In order to improve or, if possible, to cure the such symptoms, the most important therapeutic treatment is considered to actively excrete the causative agents, that is, polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) from the bodies of the patients and to reduce their body burdens. In rats, dietary fiber and chlorophyll have been shown to promote the fecal excretion of dioxins and to reduce their levels in rat liver. In this study, we examined whether such kinds of effect were also observed by FBRA, which was the health food and relatively rich with dietary fiber and chlorophyll, in nine married Japanese couples. As a result, concentrations of PCDFs and PCDDs on the lipid weight basis in the blood of the FBRA-intake group in which they took 7.0 to 10.5g of FBRA after each meal and three times a day for one year were more lowered than those in the blood of the non-intake group; Blood levels of PCDFs and PCDDs in the FBRA-intake group were decreased by 41.0 and 37.2%, respectively, and those decreases were 33.7 and 29.4% in the non-intake group. Their total body burdens just before and one year after the study were calculated on the assumptions that the body fat was also contaminated with these dioxins at their blood levels on the lipid weight basis and the content of body fat was 20% of the body weight. Then, we computed the average amounts in excretion of PCDFs and PCDDs from the body in both the FBRA-intake and non-intake groups. Consequently, the amounts of excretion of PCDFs and PCDDs in the FBRA-intake group were 1.81 and 1.74 times, respectively, greater than those in the non-intake group. Therefore, FBRA seemed to promote the fecal excretion of causative agents of Yusho, from the human body. We also expect FBRA to reduce their body burdens of patients with Yusho and to improve some objective and subjective symptoms of Yusho patients.
15998740	The satellite sequences (AGGGAG)(n) and Ty3/gypsy-like retrotransposons are known to localize at the barley centromeres. Using a gametocidal system, which induces chromosomal mutations in barley chromosomes added to common wheat, we obtained an isochromosome for the short arm of barley chromosome 7H (7HS) that lacked the barley-specific satellite sequence (AGGGAG)(n). Two telocentric derivatives of the isochromosome arose in the progeny: 7HS* with and 7HS** without the pericentromeric C-band. FISH analysis demonstrated that both telosomes lacked not only the barley-specific centromeric (AGGGAG)(n) repeats and retroelements but also any of the known wheat centromeric tandem repeats, including the 192-bp, 250-bp, and TaiI sequences. Although they lacked these centromeric repeats, 7HS* and 7HS** both showed normal mitotic and meiotic transmission. Translocation of barley centromeric repeats to a wheat chromosome 4A did not generate a dicentric chromosome. Indirect immunostaining revealed that all tested centromere-specific proteins (rice CENH3, maize CENP-C, and putative barley homologues of the yeast kinetochore proteins CBF5 and SKP1) and histone H3 phosphorylated at serines 10 and 28 localized at the centromeric region of 7HS*. We conclude that the barley centromeric repeats are neither sufficient nor obligatory to assemble kinetochores, and we discuss the possible formation of a novel centromere in a barley chromosome.
15999339	Chitosan, the N-deacetylated derivative of chitin, is a potential biopolysaccharide owing to its specific structure and properties. In this paper, we report on the synthesis of 24 new chitosan derivatives, N-alkyl chitosans (NAC) and N-benzyl chitosans (NBC), that are soluble in dilute aqueous acetic acid. The different derivatives were synthesized by reductive amination and analyzed by 1H NMR spectroscopy. A high degree of substitution (DS) was obtained with N-(butyl)chitosan (DS 0.36) at a 1:1 mole ratio for NAC derivatives and N-(2,4-dichlorobenzyl)chitosan (DS 0.52) for NBC derivatives. Their insecticidal and fungicidal activities were tested against larvae of the cotton leafworm Spodoptera littoralis (Boisduval) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), the grey mould Botrytis cinerea Pers (Leotiales: Sclerotiniaceae) and the rice leaf blast Pyricularia grisea Cavara (Teleomorph: Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) Barr). The oral feeding bioassay indicated that all the derivatives had significant insecticidal activity at 5 g kg(-1) in artificial diet. The most active was N-(2-chloro-6-fluorobenzyl)chitosan, which caused 100% mortality at 0.625 g kg(-1), with an estimated LC50 of 0.32 g kg(-1). Treated larvae ceased feeding after 2-3 days; the mechanism of action remains unknown. In a radial hyphal growth bioassay with both plant pathogens, all derivatives showed a higher fungicidal action than chitosan. N-Dodecylchitosan, N-(p-isopropylbenzyl)chitosan and N-(2,6-dichlorobenzyl)chitosan were the most active against B cinerea, with EC50 values of 0.57, 0.57 and 0.52 g litre(-1), respectively. Against P grisea, N-(m-nitrobenzyl)chitosan was the most active, with 77% inhibition at 5 g litre(-1). The effect of different substitutions is discussed in relation to insecticidal and fungicidal activity.
16001171	Naturally occurring flavonoids such as quercetin and genistein possess cancer chemopreventive properties in experimental models. However, adverse effects such as their mutagenicity confound their potential clinical usefulness. Furthermore in leukaemia cells some flavonoids cleave the breakpoint cluster region of the mixed lineage leukaemia (MLL) gene as a consequence of inhibition of topoisomerase II. The choice of flavonoids to be developed as cancer chemopreventive agents depends crucially on their safety. Here, we explored safety aspects of the novel flavone tricin, a constituent of rice bran and other grass species, which has recently been found to interfere with murine gastrointestinal carcinogenesis. Evidence of pathological or morphological changes in liver, lung, heart, spleen, kidney, adrenal gland, pancreas or thymus tissues was studied in mice which received tricin, genistein or quercetin 1,000 mg/kg daily by the oral route on five consecutive days. The ability of tricin (50 microM) to cleave the MLL gene was studied in human leukaemia cells by Southern blotting, and its effect on human topoisomerase II activity was investigated in incubations with supercoiled DNA. The mutagenicity of tricin was assessed in the Salmonella/Escherichia coli assay, and its clastogenicity was adjudged by chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells and occurrence of micronuclei in bone marrow erythrocytes in Swiss-Webster mice. Neither tricin, quercetin, or genistein caused pathological or morphological changes in any of the murine tissues studied. Tricin (50 microM) failed to cause MLL gene breakage, and it inhibited topoisomerase II only at 500 microM, but not at 10, 50 or 100 microM. Tricin lacked genotoxic properties in the systems studied here. The results tentatively suggest that tricin may be considered safe enough for clinical development as a cancer chemopreventive agent.
16001551	A method for detection of semicarbazide (SEM) in baby food was validated. SEM was extracted with hydrochloric acid and derivatised with 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, using [15N2,13C] semicarbazide as internal standard. The extract was neutralised, purified on a solid phase extraction cartridge and SEM was determined by reversed phase LC-MS-MS. Linearity was demonstrated in the ranges from 0.1 ng ml(-1) to 1 ng ml(-1) and from 2 ng ml(-1) to 80 ng ml(-1). Matrix effects were non significant for meat-based and significant for apple and rice-based baby foods, in both ranges. Mean recoveries ranged from 87.8% to 107.2% with relative standard deviation from 0.2% to 9.1%, considering both ranges. Limits of detection and quantification were 0.1 microg kg(-1) and 0.25 microg kg(-1), respectively. The results of the validation process demonstrated the method suitability for use in food control.
16001828	Mercury (Hg), as one of the priority pollutants and also a hot topic of frontier environmental research in many countries, has been paid higher attention in the world since the middle of the last century. Guizhou Province (at N24 degrees 30'-29 degrees 13', E103 degrees 1'-109 degrees 30', 1 100 m above the sea level, with subtropical humid climate) in southwest China is an important mercury production center. It has been found that the mercury content in most media of aquatics, soil, atmosphere and in biomass of corns, plants and animals, is higher than the national standard. The present study aims to explore the influence of mercury pollution on the health of local citizens. The effect of rice from two mercury polluted experimental plots of Guizhou Province on the expression of c-jun mRNA in rat brain and c-jun protein in cortex, hippocampus and ependyma was observed using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemical methods. The results showed that the mercury polluted rice induced expression of c-jun mRNA and its protein significantly. Selenium can reduce Hg uptake, an antagonism between selenium and mercury on the expression of c-jun mRNA and c-jun protein. c-jun participates in the toxicity process of brain injury by mercury polluted rice, the expression of c-jun mRNA in brain, and c-jun protein in rat cortex and hippocampus can predict neurotoxicity of mercury polluted rice. People should be advised to be cautious in eating any kind of Hg-polluted foods. To reveal the relationship between c-jun induction and apoptosis, further examinations are required.
16001862	Anaerobic water samples containing levels of soluble Fe(II) may form insoluble Fe(III) particulates that could hinder subsequent extraction and analysis. Solid-phase extraction (SPE) cartridges could become blocked by this material, reducing the volume that can be processed. The ability of ascorbic acid to reduce these Fe(III) colloids and/or to prevent further oxidation of Fe(II) by dissolved oxygen during sampling was investigated and compared to sample stabilization with hydrochloric acid. Ascorbic acid (5%, w/v) proved the most effective treatment because it prevented 95% of the dissolved iron in the sample from precipitating during processing, compared to 40% in untreated samples. The effect of ascorbic acid addition on degradation of 2 rice pesticides, fipronil and thiobencarb, was investigated and compared to degradation rates in water. Pesticide reduction by ascorbic acid over a 3 h period was insignificant compared to the natural degradation occurring in deionized water. While this method was shown to increase sample processing time, it also allowed the processing of large-volume anaerobic water samples (150 mL) that were previously not extractable due to rapid obstruction of the SPE cartridge.
16002121	The utility of rice husk as an adsorbent for metal ions such as iron, zinc and copper from acid mine water was assessed. The adsorption isotherms exhibited Langmuirian behavior and were endothermic in nature. The free energy values for adsorption of the chosen metal ions onto rice husk were found to be highly negative attesting to favorable interaction. Over 99% Fe(3+), 98% of Fe(2+) and Zn(2+) and 95% Cu(2+) uptake was achieved from acid mine water, with a concomitant increase in the pH value by two units using rice husk. The remediation studies carried out on acid mine water and simulated acid mine water pretreated with rice husk indicated successful growth of Desulfotomaculum nigrificans (D. nigrificans). The amount of sulphate bioreduction in acid mine water at an initial pH of 5.3 was enhanced by D. nigrificans from 21% to 40% in the presence of rice husk filtrate supplemented with carbon and nitrogen. In simulated acid mine water with fortified husk filtrate, the sulphate reduction was even more extensive, with an enhancement to 73%. Concurrently, almost 90% Fe(2+), 89% Zn(2+) and 75% Cu(2+) bioremoval was attained from simulated acid mine water. Metal adsorption by rice husk was confirmed in desorption experiments in which almost complete removal of metal ions from the rice husk was achieved after two elutions using 1M HCl. The possible mechanisms of metal ion adsorption onto rice husk and sulphate reduction using D. nigrificans are discussed.
16003581	Arsenic contamination in the environment (i.e. surface, well and tube-well water, soil, sediment and rice samples) of central India (i.e. Ambagarh Chauki, Chhattisgarh) is reported. The concentration of the total arsenic in the samples i.e. water (n = 64), soil (n = 30), sediment (n = 27) and rice grain (n = 10) were ranged from 15 to 825 microg L(-1), 9 to 390 mg kg(-1), 19 to 489 mg kg(-1) and 0.018 to 0.446 mg kg(-1), respectively. In all type of waters, the arsenic levels exceeded the permissible limit, 10 microg L(-1). The most toxic and mobile inorganic species i.e. As(III) and As(V) are predominantly present in water of this region. The soils have relatively higher contents of arsenic and other elements i.e. Mg, Al, Si, K, Ca, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Ga, Zr, Sn, Sb, Pb and U. The mean arsenic contents in soil of this region are much higher than in arsenic soil of West Bengal and Bangladesh. The lowest level of arsenic in the soil of this region is 3.7 mg kg(-1) with median value of 9.5 mg kg(-1). The arsenic contents in the sediments are at least 2-folds higher than in the soil. The sources of arsenic contamination in the soil of this region are expected from the rock weathering as well as the atmospheric deposition. The environmental samples i.e. water, soil dust, food, etc. are expected the major exposure for the arsenic contamination. The most of people living in this region are suffering with arsenic borne diseases (i.e. melanosis, keratosis, skin cancer, etc.).
16003584	A pot experiment was carried out in a greenhouse to investigate the sequestration of As in iron plaques on root surface of three rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars. Phosphate (P) fertilization increased both plant biomass and tissue P concentrations significantly, indicating that the soils used in this study was highly P-deficient. Results from this study confirmed that low P supply improved the formation of iron plaque on rice roots. As a consequence, arsenic (As) concentrations in DCB-extracts with no P addition were significantly higher than those with P fertilization. Arsenic was highly sequestrated in iron plaque; arsenic concentration in iron was up to nearly 120 mg kg(-1), while arsenic concentrations in roots were just several mg kg(-1). Both arsenic and phosphate concentrations in iron plaque were highly positively correlated with the amounts of iron plaque (DCB-extractable Fe). Contrary to normal understanding that increasing P supply could reduced As accumulation in plants, results from the present study showed that P fertilization did not inhibit the As uptake by plants (As accumulation in aboveground), which was probably due to the fact that iron plaque formation was improved under low P conditions, thus leading to more As sequestration in the iron plaque. Thus results obtained in this study indicated that the iron plaque may inhibit the transfer of As from roots to shoots, and thus alter the P-As interaction in plant As uptake processes.
16004292	On the basis of the principles of plant physiology, agro-meteorology and soil environment, net primary production of rice and wheat crops was modeled. The model includes two main functional modules: photosynthesis and respiration, and nitrogen transport within soil-plant system. The processes of photosynthesis and respiration are driven by environmental variables and plant nitrogen content. The transportation of nitrogen within soil-plant system is determined by simulating the processes of crop nitrogen uptake, soil nitrogen mineralization and synthetic nitrogen release.
16004293	A model developed by the authors was validated against a total of 98 independent data sets to simulate net primary production (NPP) of rice and wheat crops. These data sets come from literature review and include field measurements conducted in different regions of China with various rates of N application. Model validation indicates that NPP of rice and wheat crops in main cultivated-area of China can be well simulated from weather, soil and N fertilization. A comparison between the simulated (y) and the observed NPP (x) resulted in a regression of y = 1.05x- 16.8 (r2= 0.771,p < 0.001, n = 98). Model scenario prediction for Nanjing area suggests that the increase of atmospheric CO2 concentration will enhance carbon fixation, while the increase of air temperature will reduce carbon fixation by rice and wheat crops. Effect of global warming on the wheat carbon fixation is less than on the rice. Under present and future scenario with atmospheric CO2 concentration of 540 micromol x mol(-1) and temperature increment of 1-4 degrees C, N fertilization will enhance carbon fixation of rice and wheat crops. The enhancement for wheat is more significant than that for rice crop. However, the application of N will not significantly improve the carbon fixation, even reduce rice NPP when the N application rate is higher than 150 kg x hm(-2).
16004321	The objective of this paper is to study the antagonisms between selenium and mercury and the effect of different species mercury on the brain injury. The expression of c-fos mRNA and c-FOS protein in rat brain induced by Hg-contaminated rice was observed by using reverse transcriptions polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemical methods. The results show the Hg-contaminated rice induced significantly the expression of c-fos mRNA and c-FOS protein; selenium could antagonize mercury accumulative level in brain. Antagonistic effects of selenium on the expression of c-fos included by mercury and the molecule mechanism of the antagonisms between selenium and mercury was probed, too.
16004322	A strain of fungi was isolated from soil, which was identified as Penicillium simplicissimum. This strain was capable of utilizing several lignin model compounds, making aromatic dyes decoloration and degrading natural lignin. All these results proved that Penicillium simplicissimum has ligninolytic ability. Three kinds of enzymes were believed to be the most important catalyzes in the biodegrading process. They are lignin peroxidase (LiP), laccase (Lac) and hemicellulase. And they always work synergistically. After 25 days' incubation, the amount of rice straw lignin decreased 0.23g, and the degrading rate was 14.94%. Different from the degrading mechanism of the white-rot fungi, the lignin degradation by P. simplicissimum mainly happened during the primary metabolism and it was greatly influenced by the pH of media, the concentration of Cu2+ and Mn2+.
16004469	A methodology is developed for interpreting the molecular weight distributions of debranched amylopectin, based on techniques developed for quantitatively and qualitatively finding mechanistic information from the molecular weight distributions of synthetic polymers. If the only events occurring are random chain growth and stoppage (i.e., the rates are independent of degree of polymerization over the range in question), then the number of chains of degree of polymerization N, P(N), is linear in ln P(N) with a negative slope, where the slope gives the ratio of the stoppage and growth rates. This starting point suggests that mechanistic inferences can be made from a plot of lnP against N. Application to capillary electrophoresis data for the P(N) of debranched starch from across the major taxa, from bacteria (Escherichia coli), green algae (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii), mammals (Bos), and flowering plants (Oryza sativa, rice; Zea mays, maize; Triticum aestivum, wheat; Hordeum vulgare, barley; and Solanum tuberosum, potato), gives insights into the biosynthetic pathways, showing the differences and similarities of the alpha-1,4-glucans produced by the various species. Four characteristic regions for storage starch from the higher plants are revealed: (1) an initial increasing region corresponding to the formation of new branches, (2) a linear ln P region with negative slope, indicating random growth and stoppage, (3) a region corresponding to the formation of the crystalline lamellae and subsequent elongation of chains, and (4) a second linear ln P with negative slope region. Each region can be assigned to specific enzymatic processes in starch synthesis, including determining the ranges of degrees of polymerization which are subject to random and nonrandom processes.
16004823	Using DNA samples obtained from buccal cells for genetic polymorphism analysis in molecular epidemiological studies has been repeatedly reported, but whether DNA from food remnants in mouth influences the result is still concerned. This study was to compare genetic polymorphisms of buccal cell DNA with those of buffy coat DNA, and with plant and animal DNA from foods to rule out the possibility of interference from food remnants, to improve technique of buccal cell collection and elevate DNA yield. Buccal cells were collected from mouthwash (40 ml/case) of 62 subjects, and fixed with isopropyl alcohol; buffy coats of peripheral blood were collected from 30 of these subjects. Common foods (rice, greengrocery, soybean, apple, pork, beef, chicken, and duck) were also collected. DNA of all samples was extracted by chloroform-phenol method. NAT2, GSTM1, GSTT1, CYP1A1, and CYP2E1 genetic polymorphisms were assayed by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) technique. Alu (human mutual DNA sequence) was also tested. DNA yield of 62 individual mouthwash samples was (135.15+/-64.30) microg (22.36-330.70 microg); 30 individual mouthwash samples contained 75%-95% oral epithelial cells with DNA yield of (143.44+/-61.64) microg (51.01-283.58 microg). DNA yield of 30 buffy coat samples was (91.19+/-38.01) microg (30.83-178.63 microg). Electrophoresis showed that all 62 buccal cell samples and 30 buffy coat samples contained DNA fragments in high molecular weight; beta-globin, Alu, NAT2, GSTM1, GSTT1, CYP1A1, and CYP2E1 gene fragments were successfully amplified from 61 buccal cells samples and 30 buffy coat samples, which showed no difference between the 2 kinds of samples from individual collections; these gene fragments were not amplified from all food DNA samples. The majority of DNA from mouthwash is human-origin. A little amount of food remnants would not influence the measurements of genetic polymorphisms. The genetic polymorphisms show no difference between buccal cell samples and buffy coat samples.
16005045	Propanil (3,4-dichloropropionanilide) is a selective contact pesticide, recommended for post-emergence use in rice. This herbicide may end up in surface waters and present potential risk for aquatic vascular plants. Therefore, its toxicity was evaluated on Lemna minor L., an aquatic plant regularly used for toxicological studies, during time- and concentration-dependent exposure. Toxicity assessments were based on inhibition of growth of L. minor cultures after 24 days. The obtained results showed that the growth of Lemna was affected by the herbicide. The responses of the guaiacol peroxidase (G-POD) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) involved in the xenobiotic metabolism and antioxidative system were also investigated following Propanil exposure. Our results showed that Propanil has not induced enzymatic antioxidative defenses of L. minor. Both 3,4-dichloroaniline (3,4-DCA) and 3,4-dichloroacetanilide are the major metabolites in this plant. On the contrary, only 3,4-DCA was found in culture media after 4 days. Probably, the enzymatic hydrolysis by acyl acylamidase and the acetylation by acetyl-CoA are the major pathways for these transformation products, respectively. The results of this study showed that the selected aquatic plant has the potential to accumulate and metabolize rice herbicide, like Propanil. Based on these toxicity data this herbicide should impair the establishment of non-target aquatic plants.
16005170	Gamma-oryzanol, a phytosteryl ferulate mixture extracted from rice bran oil, has a wide spectrum of biological activities; in particular, it has antioxidant properties and is often used in cosmetic formulations as a sunscreen. The first objective of the present investigation was to elucidate the molecular mechanism(s) of the antioxidant activity of gamma-oryzanol by utilising different in vitro model systems, such as scavenging of stable DPPH radical, OH and O2- radicals scavenging, and azocompound AMVN-initiated lipid peroxidation. The effect of gamma-oryzanol on the oxidative stability of vegetable oils of pharmaceutical and cosmetic interest was then evaluated in a oxidation accelerate test and compared with the effect of the well-known antioxidants BHA and BHT. Our results demonstrate that gamma-oryzanol is an organic radical scavenger able to prevent AMVN-triggered lipoperoxidation. Moreover, when added to oils at concentrations ranging between 2.5 and 10 mmol/kg, gamma-oryzanol shows a dose-dependent increase of the induction times; in particular, it improved the oxidative stability of oils very prone to lipoperoxidation because of their high content of polyunsaturated fatty acids. On the ground of our results, we can conclude that gamma-oryzanol may have a potential application for the stabilization of lipidic raw materials.
16006122	Glucoamylase production has been investigated by solid-state fermentation of agro-industrial wastes generated during the processing of paddy to rice flakes (categorized as coarse, medium and fine waste), along with wheat bran and rice powder by a local soil isolate Aspergillus sp. HA-2. Highest enzyme production was obtained with wheat bran (264 +/- 0.64 U/gds) followed by coarse waste (211.5 +/- 1.44 U/gds) and medium waste (192.1 +/- 1.15 U/gds) using 10(6) spores/ml as inoculum at 28 +/- 2 degrees C, pH 5. A combination of wheat bran and coarse waste (1:1) gave enzyme yield as compared to wheat bran alone. Media supplementation with carbon source (0.04 g/gds) as sucrose in wheat bran and glucose in coarse and medium waste increased enzyme production to 271.2 +/- 0.92, 220.2 +/- 0.75 and 208.2 +/- 1.99 U/gds respectively. Organic nitrogen supplementation (yeast extract and peptone, 0.02 g/gds) showed a higher enzyme production compared to inorganic source. Optimum enzyme activity was observed at 55 degrees C, pH 5. Enzyme activity was enhanced in the presence of calcium whereas presence of EDTA gave reverse effect.
16006577	The cereal caryopsis is a complex tissue in which maternal and endosperm tissues follow distinct but coordinated developmental programs. Because of the hexaploid genome in wheat (Triticum aestivum), the identification of genes involved in key developmental processes by genetic approaches has been difficult. To bypass this limitation, we surveyed 888 genes that are expressed during caryopsis development using a novel high-throughput mRNA in situ hybridization method. This survey revealed novel distinct spatial expression patterns that either reflected the ontogeny of the developing caryopsis or indicated specialized cellular functions. We have identified both known and novel genes whose expression is cell cycle-dependent. We have identified the crease region as important in setting up the developmental patterning, because the transition from proliferation to differentiation spreads from this region to the rest of the endosperm. A comparison of this set of genes with the rice (Oryza sativa) genome shows that approximately two-thirds have rice counterparts but also suggests considerable divergence with regard to proteins involved in grain filling. We found that the wheat genes had significant homology with 350 Arabidopsis thaliana genes. At least 25 of these are already known to be essential for seed development in Arabidopsis, but many others remain to be characterized.
16006597	We report here on a novel transcription factor with a basic helix-loop-helix domain for tolerance to inorganic phosphate (Pi) starvation in rice (Oryza sativa). The gene is designated OsPTF1. The expression of OsPTF1 is Pi starvation induced in roots while constitutively expressed in shoots, as shown by northern-blot analysis. Overexpression of OsPTF1 enhanced tolerance to Pi starvation in transgenic rice. Tillering ability, root and shoot biomass, and phosphorus content of transgenic rice plants were about 30% higher than those of the wild-type plants in Pi-deficient conditions in hydroponic experiments. In soil pot and field experiments, more than 20% increase in tiller number, panicle weight, and phosphorus content was observed in transgenic plants compared to wild-type plants at low-Pi levels. In Pi-deficient conditions, transgenic rice plants showed significantly higher total root length and root surface area, which results in a higher instantaneous Pi uptake rate over their wild-type counterparts. Microarray analysis for transgenic plants overexpressing OsPTF1 has been performed to investigate the downstream regulation of OsPTF1.
16007953	Mosquito surveillance was conducted near the Korean Demilitarized Zone (Paju County, Gyeonggi Province) from April to October, 1999, where malaria cases were reported. Adult mosquito surveillance, using black light and CDC UV light traps, was conducted at five and two sites, respectively. Weekly larval collections were made at five rice paddies located adjacent to the adult collection sites. Anopheles sinensis was the most abundant mosquito of 11 species collected throughout the surveillance period in 1999, comprising 47 - 48% of the total number of mosquitoes collected at cow sheds and residence. At all five sites surveyed by CDC UV light traps, anophelines appeared early in the year (May 3) and were most abundant in the cow sheds followed by the hillside forest, residence, stream/river bank, and were least abundant in rice fields. The population density of the larvae and the adults of An. sinensis increased steadily in June and reached their peaks during the second week of July (mean 112 females/trap/night). The parity rates were higher in July and September, when populations were highest. The probabilities of daily survival of An. sinensis were 0.804 in June to 0.895 in July. Cross-correlation showed a significant relationship between the number of adult anopheline mosquitoes and the number of larvae collected on the previous day, the same day, and also three and seven days later, which may be useful for determining treatment thresholds.
16007966	A field test was conducted in rice paddies adjacent to Wufeng, Taichung County in Central Taiwan to evaluate the efficacy of control agents against mosquito larvae. The agents included Bacillus thuringienesis israelensis (Bti), two Lagenidium giganteum products (Lg product A and T), and temephos. The major mosquito species found in the rice paddies were Culex tritaeniorhynchus/vishnui and Anopheles sinensis. Compared to controls, a 7-day treatment with Bti or Lg products A and T caused overall reductions in the number of immatures (larvae and pupae) of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus/vishnui of 77.5%, 49.7%, and 21.9%, respectively, whereas temephos caused an increase of 66.9%. The overall reductions in An. sinensis were 85.4%, 8.6%, 44.6%, and 92.1%, respectively. There was no significant reduction in the number of mosquito larvae following 42 days of treatment with these agents. In summary, 1-week treatments with both biological control agents produced moderate overall reductions in mosquito larvae in rice paddies. The insecticide temephos, on the other hand, was very effective at suppressing the larvae of An. sinensis but significantly increased the number of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus/vishnui larvae in temephos-treated plots.
16008090	The phytohormone auxin is involved in the regulation of a variety of developmental processes. In this report, we describe how the processes of lateral root and root hair formations and root gravity response in rice are controlled by auxin. We use a rice mutant aem1 (auxin efflux mutant) because the mutant is defective in these characters. The aem1 line was originally isolated as a short lateral root mutant, but we found that the mutant has a defect in auxin efflux in roots. The acropetal and basipetal indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) transports were reduced in aem1 roots compared to wild type (WT). Furthermore, gravitropic bending as well as efflux of radioactive IAA was impaired in the mutant roots. We also propose a unique distribution of endogenous IAA in aem1 roots. An immunoassay revealed a 4-fold-endogenous IAA content in the aem1 roots compared to WT, and the application of IAA to the shoot of WT seedlings mimicked the short lateral root phenotype of aem1, suggesting that the high content of IAA in aem1 roots impaired the elongation of lateral roots. However, the high level of IAA in aem1 roots contradicts the auxin requirement for root hair formation in the epidermis of mutant roots. Since the reduced development in root hairs of aem1 roots was rescued by exogenous auxin, the auxin level in the epidermis is likely to be sub-optimum in aem1 roots. This discrepancy can be solved by the ideas that IAA level is higher in the stele and lower in the epidermis of aem1 roots compared to WT and that the unique distribution of IAA in aem1 roots is induced by the defect in auxin efflux. All these results suggest that AEM1 may encode a component of auxin efflux carrier in rice and that the defects in lateral roots, root hair formation and root gravity response in aem1 mutant are due to the altered auxin efflux in roots.
16008091	Data mining the complete rice genome sequences revealed a genomic fragment encoding a characteristic metallothionein (MT) protein, and its full-length cDNA was isolated from rice developing seeds by RT-PCR. This cDNA, designated OsMT-II-1a, contains an open reading frame of 264 bp encoding a protein of 87 amino acid residues. The predicted amino acid sequence was shown to have structural features characteristic of plant class II MT proteins. By sequence analysis of its 5'-flanking region, one putative TATA box, four putative CAAT boxes, and several short sequences homologous to previously reported regulatory cis-elements were identified. Northern blot analysis showed that accumulation of OsMT-II-1a mRNA is specifically abundant in developing seeds and 2-day glumes after pollination, and OsMT-II-1a transcription can markedly be induced by H2O2, paraquat, SNP, ethephon, ABA and SA, but barely by metal ions or other exogenous abiotic factors such as low temperature and PEG. These results coincide with the prediction of existing regulatory cis-elements in its 5'-flanking region. Taken together, the above results suggest that the processes of pollination and seed development might be mediated, at least in part, by expression of the OsMT-II-1a gene that is regulated by several abiotic factors.
16008095	Since residues and extracts of rice plants were known to inhibit the germination and growth of several plant species, the possible involvement of a growth inhibitor, momilactone B, in rice allelopathy was discussed. Momilactone B was found in shoots and roots of rice plants over their entire life cycle. The level of momilactone B in shoots and roots increased with rice plant growing until flowering initiation, and then decreased. The highest level of momilactone B in the shoots and roots at the day of flowering initiation was 245 and 64.1 nmol g(-1) fresh weight, respectively. Thus, 1 kg of rice shoots and roots, respectively, may be able to release 245 and 64.1 micromol of momilactone B into the soil or neighboring environment by decomposition of their residues, which may be sufficient to cause growth inhibition of their neighboring or successional plants. The growth inhibitory activity of momilactone B and the occurrence of momilactone B in rice plants suggest that momilactone B may contribute the growth inhibitory effect of rice residues and extracts, indicating that momilactone B may have an important role in the rice allelopathy.
16008837	Recognition of microbial pathogens by plants triggers the hypersensitive reaction, a common form of programmed cell death in plants. These dying cells generate signals that activate the plant immune system and alarm the neighboring cells as well as the whole plant to activate defense responses to limit the spread of the pathogen. The molecular mechanisms behind the hypersensitive reaction are largely unknown except for the recognition process of pathogens. We delineate the NRP-gene in soybean, which is specifically induced during this programmed cell death and contains a novel protein domain, which is commonly found in different plant proteins. The sequence analysis of the protein, encoded by the NRP-gene from soybean, led to the identification of a novel domain, which we named DCD, because it is found in plant proteins involved in development and cell death. The domain is shared by several proteins in the Arabidopsis and the rice genomes, which otherwise show a different protein architecture. Biological studies indicate a role of these proteins in phytohormone response, embryo development and programmed cell by pathogens or ozone. It is tempting to speculate, that the DCD domain mediates signaling in plant development and programmed cell death and could thus be used to identify interacting proteins to gain further molecular insights into these processes.
16009997	Using the serial analysis of gene expression technique, we surveyed transcriptomes of three major tissues (panicles, leaves, and roots) of a super-hybrid rice (Oryza sativa) strain, LYP9, in comparison to its parental cultivars, 93-11 (indica) and PA64s (japonica). We acquired 465,679 tags from the serial analysis of gene expression libraries, which were consolidated into 68,483 unique tags. Focusing our initial functional analyses on a subset of the data that are supported by full-length cDNAs and the tags (genes) differentially expressed in the hybrid at a significant level (P<0.01), we identified 595 up-regulated (22 tags in panicles, 228 in leaves, and 345 in roots) and 25 down-regulated (seven tags in panicles, 15 in leaves, and three in roots) in LYP9. Most of the tag-identified and up-regulated genes were found related to enhancing carbon- and nitrogen-assimilation, including photosynthesis in leaves, nitrogen uptake in roots, and rapid growth in both roots and panicles. Among the down-regulated genes in LYP9, there is an essential enzyme in photorespiration, alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase 1. Our study adds a new set of data crucial for the understanding of molecular mechanisms of heterosis and gene regulation networks of the cultivated rice.
16010004	With several plant genomes sequenced, the power of comparative genome analysis can now be applied. However, genome-scale cross-species analyses are limited by the effort for data integration. To develop an integrated cross-species plant genome resource, we maintain comprehensive databases for model plant genomes, including Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), maize (Zea mays), Medicago truncatula, and rice (Oryza sativa). Integration of data and resources is emphasized, both in house as well as with external partners and databases. Manual curation and state-of-the-art bioinformatic analysis are combined to achieve quality data. Easy access to the data is provided through Web interfaces and visualization tools, bulk downloads, and Web services for application-level access. This allows a consistent view of the model plant genomes for comparative and evolutionary studies, the transfer of knowledge between species, and the integration with functional genomics data.
16010729	It has been found that coleoptiles of dark-grown rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings undergo regular circumnutation in circular orbits with periods of about 180 min. Both clockwise and counter-clockwise movements were observed, but individual coleoptiles continued to rotate only in one direction. Light-grown seedlings did not show circumnutation. In fact, dark-grown seedlings were found to cease circumnutating in response to a pulse of red light (R). This light-induced inhibition of circumnutation was demonstrated to involve both a FR-inducible very-low-fluence response, solely mediated by phytochrome A, and a FR-reversible low-fluence response, mediated by phytochrome B and/or C. The R-induced inhibition of circumnutation showed temporal agreement with the R-induced inhibition of coleoptile growth, suggesting that the former results from the latter. However, about 25% of growth activity remained after R treatment, indicating that circumnutation is more specifically regulated by phytochrome. The R-treated coleoptile showed gravitropism. Investigation of the growth differential for gravitropic curvature revealed that gravitropic responsiveness was rather enhanced by R. The results suggested that gravitropism is not a cause of circumnutation. It remained probable, however, that gravity perception is a part of the mechanism of circumnutation. It is speculated that the circumnutation investigated aids the seedling shoot in growing through the soil.
16010732	Arf (ADP-ribosylation factor) proteins, which mediate vesicular transport, have little or no intrinsic GTPase activity. They rely on the action of GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) and guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for their function. In the present study the OsAGAP gene in rice, which encoded a protein with predicted structure similar to ArfGAP, was identified. The purified OsAGAP-GST fusion protein was able to stimulate the GTPase activity of rice Arf. Furthermore, OsAGAP can rescue the defect of vesicular transport in the yeast gcs1 delta glo3 delta double-mutant cells. Transgenic Arabidopsis with OsAGAP constitutively expression showed reduced apical dominance, shorter primary roots, increasing number of longer adventitious roots. Many of the phenotypes can be phenocopied by treatment of exogenous indoleacetic acid level (IAA) in wild-type plants. Determination of whole-plant IAA level showed that there is a sharp increase of free IAA in OsAGAP transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings. In addition, removal of the 4-day-old shoot apex could inhibit the adventitious root formation in the transgenic seedlings. These results suggest OsAGAP, an ARF-GAP of rice, maybe involved in the mediation of plant root development by regulating auxin level.
16011031	A MYC (Myelocytomatosis) transcription factor gene, OsMYC, was cloned in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The putative protein of the OsMYC gene has a typical DNA binding domain: basic/helix-loop-helix (bHLH) motif at the C-terminus. Its nucleocide sequnce has 78%, 48%, 46% identity with that of the AtMYC2, MYC7E and PG1 genes, respectively. The identity of deduced amino acid between OsMYC and AtMYC2, MYG7E and PG1 is 95%, 84%, and 77% in the bHLH domain, and that is 81%, 54% and 52% in the N-terminus conserved region. The identity is 100% in the nuclear localization signal between them. Phylogenetic comparisons revealed that the OsMYC protein was related to the Arabidopsis AtMYC2, Zea MYC7E and Phaseolus vulgaris PG1. OsMYC gene was expressed at high level in stem, but low level in leaf and root and can be induced by ABA and Fe3+, which is similar to the expression pattern of MYC7E and RAP1 genes. Thus, this gene is a new member of the rice MYC family.
16011032	We constructed an F2 clonal population of intercross,Teqing/Lemont, and identified two quantitative trait loci (QTLs) contributing to rice sheath blight resistance on chromosome 9 and 11. The two QTLs were qSB-9 and qSB-11, respectively. From the population, three clonal lines were selected by markers' band types on both sides of these two QTLs, qSB-9 and qSB-11. Two were double-susceptible parent with homozygous susceptible alleles of these two loci,and the other was named as double-resistant parent,of which these two loci were all homozygous resistant alleles. These parents were separately backcrossed to recurrent parents, Teqing or Lemont. From BC2F1, marker-assisted selection was conducted in each proceeding generation and all back-crossed plants in BC2F1 and BC4F1 were inoculated by short toothpicks incubated with a strain, RH-9 of the fungus for identification of the resistance. Results suggested that these two QTLs were selected effectively in each backcross generation and their positions were also verified in identification of resistance to rice sheath blight. In seedling nursery of BC3F2 population, plants were selected through marker-assisted selection, and were separately mixed as homozygous lines of double-susceptible alleles on the background of Teqing, double-susceptible and double-resistant on the background of Lemont. The homozygous lines and their recurrent parents were simultaneously planted on experiment fields of Agriculture Collage of Yangzhou University and Lixiahe District Institute of Agricultural Science. The inoculation was performed by a random-block test with two replicates at each site. The results indicated that 1) The difference of sheath blight disease development was highly significant among materials under the same genetic background,and the order of disease seriousness among different homozygous lines were: double-susceptible line on the background of Lemont > double-susceptible line on the background of Teqing > Lemont > Teqing > double-resistant line on the background of Lemont; 2) When the resistant allele of qSB-9 or qSB-11 solely existed in a plant, its disease rating was reduced about 1.2 score, and 2.0 score when they simultaneously existed on the background of Lemont; 3) No significant interaction between the two QTLs controlling sheath blight resistance and environments was found. These studies have laid a strong groundwork in operation and application, of these QTLs contributing to rice sheath blight resistance.
16011154	With nine Japanese varieties and two local cultivars of rice as test materials, this paper studied the characteristics of their yield-formation and source-sink characteristics under different eco-environments of Nanjing and Lijiang. The results showed that eco-environment had an obvious effect on rice grain yield and dry matter accumulation. High-yielding rice genotypes could accumulate more dry matter, especially in their late growth period. They had higher total spikelet number, leaf area index (LAI) and crop growth rate (CGR), as compared with other genotypes. The grain yield increased with increasing total dry matter accumulation, and significantly positively correlated with dry matter accumulation after heading, total spikelet number, LAI, and spikelet/leaf area ratio. The results suggested that the lower grain yield in Nanjing than in Lijiang was mainly resulted from the lower LAI, total spikelet, dry matter accumulation and CGR after heading.
16011166	In a pot experiment with brown-yellow soil, this paper studied the effects of different concentration selenium on the growth and activated oxygen- scavenging system of Oryza sativa. The results showed that low concentration Se (< 8 mg x kg(-1)) had a promoting effect on the wheat biomass, chlorophyll a, chlorophyll a/b, and activated oxygen- scavenging system, while high concentration Se (> 16 mg x kg(-1)) was in adverse. Soil Se concentration had a significant correlation with root biomass, shoot biomass, chlorophyll a/b, MDA, SOD, CAT, POD. It was defined by the pot experiment that 10% inhibition rate of root or shoot biomass could be regarded as critical value, and the critical content of soil Se was estimated to be 21 mg x kg(-1).
16011174	Weedy rice Luolijing (Oryza sativa) is generated in Dandong, Liaoning Province of Northeast China. Its plant height is taller than normal planted rice varieties, and its caryopsis is medium or long in size, which dropped easily after matured. The color of the caryopsis shell is straw-like or yellow alternated with black-gray. The spikelet is with or without awns, and the length of the awns is 2-12 cm. The 1000 caryopsis weight is 23.5 g, and the hull is nacarat. The seed germination rate at 13-38 degrees C is > 88%. Under 2.5-10 cm water flooding, the plant dry weight reduced 50%-69%. At seedling stage, Luolijing had a stronger resistance capability against barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crusgalli var. mitis) than an alellopathic rice I-kung-pao, which meant that Luolijing had no allelopathic function. The Luolijing had a tolerance to 0.5% saline-alkaline solution.
16011175	Zhefu 802 rice isogenic lines IG1, IG4, IG25 and IG26 have the same genetic background but different plant morphology. This paper studied their competition and allelopathy against barnyardgrass. The results showed that IG1 and IG4 had higher plant height, bigger tiller angle and less root vitality than IG25 and IG26, and provided 15% and 17% control of barnyardgrass plant dry weight, which were significantly higher than IG26. The competition ability of test rice isogenic lines against the weed was positively correlated with their plant height and tiller angle, but negatively correlated with their root vitality. The inhibition rate of the water extract of IG1 leaves on barnyardgrass root length was 77.6%, significantly higher than that of non-allelopathic material Xiushui 63, while the IG4 which has the similar plant morphology with IG1 didn't show any significant allelopathy. It seems that there were no correlations between allelopathy and morphological characters of rice under the same genetic background.
16011176	By using the modified relay seeding technique, more than 10 allelopathic rice materials were obtained from 500 rice germplasm, and their allelopathic inhibitory effects on weeds were evaluated under field condition. The results showed that under direct-seeded condition, the allelopathic rice materials Gumei 2, Xiayitiao, Jizaoxian, Ganzaoxian and Shangnuo 1 had more obvious inhibitory effects on Echinochloa crus-galli than non-allelopathic rice materials Xiushui 63 and Chunjiang 11, while the allelopathic rice material Milyang 54 had the best inhibitory effect on field weeds. Under field-transplanting condition, the allelopathic rice materials Gumei 2, Qingkun 1, Xiayitiao and Jizaoxian had significant inhibitory effects on Echinochloa crus-galli over non-allelopathic materials Xiushui 63 and Chunjiang 11. There existed significant differences in some agronomic characters among rice materials. Allelopathic rice materials Xiayitiao and Jizaoxian had higher plant height and stronger tillering activity, but had smaller leaf areas of the 3 upper leaves.
16011177	In this paper, a strong allelopathic rice variety PI312777 and a weak allelopathic rice variety Lemont were used as test materials, and the root exudates of two rice varieties grown in the media of sand and soil were respectively collected by using circulation system approach. The terpenoids in ether-extracts were detected by GC-MS, and characterized by spectrum database. The results showed that some terpenoids such as limonene oxide, limonene dioxide, carvone oxide, carveol, and cedrol were detected in the ether-extracts. Different rice varieties had the similar kinds of terpenoids, but their existing modes and quantities were different. The differences between different various cultural methods and between rice varieties were further discussed.
16011178	By using specific secondary metabolites as markers, this paper determined the allelopathic indices of nine allelopathic rice varieties widely cultivated in South China, and evaluated the main agronomic characters of these varieties and their weed-inhibiting effects in field. The correlations among allelopathic indices, agronomic characters and weed-inhibiting effects of test rice varieties were also analyzed. The results indicated that not all the rice varieties demonstrated their weed-inhibiting effects in field, and there were no relationships between allelopathic traits and main agronomic characters. However, the rice varieties with both allelopathic traits and competitive agronomic characters could significantly inhibit the weeds in field. The non-correlation between allelopathic traits and main agronomic characters of test rice varieties suggested that the transfer of allelopathic traits into rice varieties did not affect their agronomic characters, i.e., it's possible to breed allelopathic rice cultivars with any agronomic characters.
16011809	Plasmodium vivax malaria reemerged in the Republic of Korea in 1993, with more than 2,000 cases reported in the northwestern part of the country over the last 10 years. To better assess the risk of malaria transmission we conducted a surveillance study to identify and characterize the habitats that produce potential Anopheles vector mosquitoes. Immature and adult mosquito collection data were incorporated into a Geographic Information System (GIS) along with remotely sensed satellite imagery, and imagery classified to land use to determine if remote sensing data could be used to estimate mosquito habitats. More than 2,100 anopheline larvae were collected and mapped from 186 immature habitats, which were categorized into 9 types. Anopheles sinensis was the most commonly collected species, representing more than 97% of the specimens, followed by Anopheles pullus 1.0%, Anopheles lesteri 1.0%, and Anopheles sineroides 0.8%. Anopheles sinensis, pullus, and lesteri were found most frequently in rice paddies followed by: ditches, flooded areas, ground pools, wheel tracks, swamps, irrigation canals, and stream margins. Anopheles sineroides was found most commonly in flooded areas. Supervised classification was conducted on a LANDSAT 7 ETM+ image to identify 5-6 land-use classes that were considered to be of interest. The spatial distribution of the larval mosquito collections was overlaid on the land-use image derived from the LANDSAT image, and the number of mosquitoes habitats in each class calculated. On Ganghwa Island 67% of the immature habitats containing Anopheles sinensis were in the Paddy land-use class, although the class only represented 17% of the land area. In Paju District 53% of the immature habitats containing Anopheles sinensis were in the Paddy land-use class which represented only 9 % of the area of the district. There was significant (p < 0.05) correlation between habitats containing all four species and land use on Ganghwa Island; however, only Anopheles sinensis was significantly correlated with land-use in Paju District. In Ganghwa Island almost 50% of the Anopheles sinensis adults were collected in the paddy land-use class, and there was a positive correlation between larval and adult distributions. However, in Paju District adult Anopheles sinensis adults were most commonly collected in the Bare land-use class and only 17% collected in the Paddy class. There was a negative correlation between larval and adult distributions. Immature habitats most commonly associated with Anopheles sinensis, Anopheles pullus, Anopheles sineroides and Anopheles lesteri were flooded rice paddies. Adult Anopheles sinensis, the most commonly collected anopheline, were found closely associated with rice habitats on Ganghwa Island but not in Paju District. Both QuickBird and LANDSAT satellite data were used to display spatial data in the form of geographic coverage and descriptive information in the form of relational databases associated with the mapped features. Supervised classification of LANDSAT imagery permitted good separation between Paddy, Forest, and Water land-use classes. The immature collections of Anopheles sinensis were significantly correlated with land-use as determined in the land-use classification in both Ganghwa Island and Paju District. These data suggest that classified remotely sensed data could potentially be used to estimate the distribution of immature and adult mosquito populations in the Republic of Korea.
16013381	The fate of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), a mycotoxin known to occur in polished rice, during rice cooking was evaluated to determine reduction in AFB1 residues and mutagenic potentials. The amounts of AFB1 in three lots of naturally contaminated polished rice from Korea were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography after washing and after steaming. An in vitro mutagenicity assay with Salmonella Typhimurium TA100 was used to confirm the results of the chemical analyses. Cooking significantly reduced AFB1 (mean reduction, 34%) in naturally contaminated polished rice and reduced mutagenicity by ca. 27%. Processing factors (reflecting the removal of AFB1 residues during processing) for cooked rice were estimated at 0.66 to 0.73, as determined chemically and toxicologically, respectively. The revised Korean provisional daily intake of AFB1 from consumption of rice as a dietary staple (0.58 to 3.94 ng/kg of body weight per day) is still higher than that reported for foods in general in the United States (0.26 ng/kg of body weight per day). Thus, Koreans probably consume higher amounts of foodborne AFB1 than do Americans and thus are at higher risk for AFB1-induced health consequences.
16013499	As a therapeutic agent in thrombosis the fibrinolytic enzymes are of interest and the search for a new enzyme continues. A novel fibrinolytic enzyme was produced from Rhizopus chinensis 120, which was screened from the starter for brewing rice wine in the South of China, by solid fermentation, and purified through ammonium sulfate precipitation, hydrophobic interaction, ionic exchange and gel filtration chromatographies. The purified enzyme hydrolyzed fibrin, it cleaved the alpha-, beta- and gamma-chains of fibrinogen simultaneously, and it also activated plasminogen to plasmin. The enzyme hydrolyzed N-Succinyl-Ala-Ala- Pro-Phe-pNA, and Km was 0.23 mmol/L and Kcat 16.36 s(-1). The optimal temperature of the enzyme for hydrolying fibrin was 45 degrees C, and the optimal pH range of 6.8 - 8.8. The isoelectric point of the enzyme estimated by isoelectric focusing electrophoresis was 8.5 +/- 0.1. The enzyme was a glycoprotein. EDTA, PCMB, PMSF inhibited the activety of the enzyme, and SBTI, Lys, TPCK, Aprotinine had none obvious inhibition, which suggested that the activity centre of the enzyme had hydrosulfuryl, metal and serine. The first 12 amino acids of the N-termimal sequence of the enzyme were NH2-Ser-Val-Ser-Glu-Ile-Gln-Leu-Met-His-Asn-Leu-Gly, and had none homology with that of other fibrinolytic enzyme from other microbes. The novel fibrinolytic enzyme from Rhizopus chinensis 12# has potential to become a therapeutic agent in thrombosis.
16013827	A perfusion reversed-phase HPLC method enabling the simultaneous separation of soybean and cereal (wheat, corn, and rice) proteins in commercial bakery products has been proposed for the first time. The method utilises an acetonitrile-water gradient containing an ion-pairing agent. Different ion-pairing agents were tried, 0.3% (v/v) acetic acid being observed to enable the separation of soybean from wheat, rice, and corn proteins while with 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid only the separation of soybean and corn proteins was possible. Optimisation of the solubilisation conditions for proteins was achieved by testing different acetonitrile concentrations for the simultaneous extraction of soybean and cereal proteins: best recoveries were found with 25% (v/v) acetonitrile + 0.3% (v/v) acetic acid and with 40% (v/v) acetonitrile + 0.1% (v/v) trifluoroacetic acid. Chromatographic conditions such as gradient, temperature, and wavelength detection were also optimised. The method enabled the separation of soybean and cereal proteins in binary mixtures (soybean and wheat, soybean and corn, or soybean and rice proteins) in less than 5 minutes in a total analysis time of 20 min.
16014266	The aim of this study was to describe trends in food consumption habits in Denmark, based on a food frequency survey conducted by the Danish Nutrition Council in 2004, and to compare the results to results from similar surveys in 1995, 1998 and 2001. A random population sample of 1,093 men and women, (15-92 years of age) were interviewed by telephone. They were asked 16 food frequency questions on nutritionally important foods (yoghurt, milk [2 questions], cheese, rye bread, wheat bread, sandwiches with fish, fish as the main meal, meat as the main meal, potatoes, rice, pasta, vegetables [3 questions], fruit), as well as questions about the type of milk and type of fat spreads most often used. Several positive developments in the period 1995-2001 have slowed down during the 2001-2005, and several negative trends have continued. The previous increase in fruit and vegetable consumption has weakened, and the decrease in consumption of bread and potatoes has continued. Furthermore, the previous increase in the proportion of the population not using any kind of fat spread on their bread has reached a standstill. However, the relative increase in consumption of low-fat milk has continued. The results show that the previous positive trends in Danish dietary habits, during the period 1995-2001, have come to a standstill. There is therefore a need for a new and more effective effort to encourage positive changes in food consumption patterns.
16014431	Infant botulism was confirmed in a 5-month-old female by both isolation of Clostridium botulinum type B and by detection of type B botulinum neurotoxin in rectal washout and faeces. DNA fingerprinting of nine isolates from faeces yielded two different amplified-fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) patterns. C. botulinum was isolated from two of 14 food and drink items from the patient's home: C. botulinum type A was recovered from an opened container of dried rice pudding and C. botulinum type B from opened infant formula milk powder. Ten C. botulinum type B isolates from the opened infant formula yielded four AFLP patterns, two of which were indistinguishable from the clinical isolates. Fifteen unopened foods were tested and C. botulinum type B of a unique AFLP pattern was recovered from one unopened infant formula of the same batch as the opened container. It is suggested that multiple C. botulinum were present in both food and the intestine during infant botulism.
16014463	The taxonomic position of the free-living diazotrophic strain COC8(T) isolated from rice was investigated based on phylogenetic analyses. 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses indicated that strain COC8(T) was closely related to the genus Azospirillum (96% similarity). Chemotaxonomic characteristics (G+C content of the DNA 66.8 mol%, Q-10 quinone system, 18:1omega7c as the major fatty acid and 14:0 3-OH and 16:0 3-OH as the major hydroxy fatty acids) were also similar to those of the genus Azospirillum. Based on its physiological characteristics, strain COC8(T) can clearly be differentiated from recognized species of Azospirillum. The name Azospirillum oryzae sp. nov. is proposed to accommodate this bacterial strain; the type strain is COC8(T) (=IAM 15130(T)=CCTCC AB204051(T)).
16014997	To find a new use of rice bran, five fungi were examined for the production of exo-biopolymer with macrophage-stimulating activity from rice bran. Among the exo-biopolymers produced from the cultures, Monascus pilosus had the most potent macrophage stimulating activity in a liquid culture rather than in a solid culture. In order to improve the yield of exo-biopolymer with macrophage-stimulating activity, a suitable medium for exo-biopolymer was tested in submerged culture of M. pilosus. The highest amount of exo-biopolymer (13.9 mg/mL) was obtained in a medium containing rice bran as an only carbon source followed by media with additional maltose and sucrose (13.8 and 13.7 mg/mL, respectively). The addition of peptone resulted in the production of high amount of exo-biopolymer (15.1 mg/mL), meanwhile the addition of ammonium chloride resulted in 264.0 microg/mL of glucosamine content. Among eight different kinds of inorganic salts tested, potassium phosphate (0.1%) was the most effective inorganic salt for the mycelial growth and exo-biopolymer production. Therefore the optimal medium composition was as follows (g/L): 20 g of rice bran, 5 g of peptone, and 1 g of KH2PO4. The optimal culture pH and time for mycelial growth and exo-biopolymer production was pH 5.0 and 25 degrees C, respectively. The maximum exo-biopolymer (20.1 mg/mL) was observed at the fourth day of cultivation. Exo-biopolymer, a crude polysaccharide fraction, mainly contained neutral sugar (81.8%) with considerable amounts of uronic acid (18.2%). Component sugar analysis showed that the active fraction consisted mainly of arabinose, galactose, glucose, which was digested from starch of rice bran during cultivation, and uronic acid (molar ratio; 0.8:1.0:0.7:0.8).
16016288
16018181	In a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population of indica rice, two subpopulations composed of susceptible lines were selected for mapping of partial resistance to leaf blast with two isolates of the pathogen. A third subpopulation composed of susceptible lines with similar heading time was used for mapping of partial resistance to neck blast with a third isolate. The traits measured for partial resistance included diseased leaf area (DLA), lesion size (LS) and lesion number (LN) for leaf blast and lesion length (LL) and conidium amount (CA) for neck blast. A linkage map consisting of 168 DNA markers was constructed by using the whole RIL population. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) conditioning these traits were determined at one-locus and two-locus levels. Eleven main-effect QTLs and 28 digenic interactions were detected by QTLMapper 1.01 b. Only three QTLs showing main effects were also involved in digenic interactions for the same trait. General contributions of epistatic QTLs of each trait ranged from 16.0% to 51.7%, while those of main-effect QTLs of each trait ranged from 4.7% to 38.8%. The general contributions of main-effect QTLs of most traits were smaller than those of epistatic QTLs, confirming the importance of epistasis as the genetic basis for complex traits. The general contributions of the main and epistatic effects of all QTLs detected for the two traits LL and CA of the partial resistance to neck blast reached 70.6% and 82.6% respectively, which obviously represented a major part of the genetic basis controlling partial resistance to neck blast. The results indicated the necessity for partial resistance mapping to use susceptible subpopulations where the interference of major resistance genes is avoided.
16018182	One 134 bp fragment was amplified in anthers of male sterile and fertile wheat using one pair of degenerated primer designed based on the conserved domain of MS2 gene in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, and one 1604 bp male sterility gene homology sequence was extended by in silico cloning based on the 134 bp fragment. The amino acids encoded by the male sterility gene homology sequence include a 200 amino acid conserved domain of male sterility, and this sequence expressed only in wheat male fertile anthers; no expression in male sterile anthers, roots and leaves. This research demonstrated that the cloned male sterile homology sequence is specific to wheat anther development.
16018260	D64B, an achromatic early mutation, was discovered from indica rice preserver line D63B. D64B were crossed with inhomogeneous sterile lines, preserver lines and restorer lines, most of their F1 shared the same heading dates as D64B. The results indicated that D64B possessed the characteristic of dominant earliness. To analyze the earliness trait, positive and negative crosses F2 and BC1 from the cross of D64B and Shuhui 527 were cultivated. Their heading dates showed double apices distributing with same apex values. According to apex vale value -103 d, plants of the F2 and BC1 were separated into early plants and late plants, which were tested with Chi2 value. The results suggested that the segregation ratio of number of early to late plant fitted to 3:1 and 1:1 for positive and negative cross F2 and BC1, respectively, and that the earliness of D64B was controlled by a single dominant major gene. To map the gene, the polymorphisms between D64B and Shuhui 527 was analyzed with reported 356 SSR primers and 59 primers showed polymorphisms. The earliness-lateness near isogenic pools, early plants and late plants from F2 of Shuhui 527 x D64B were further amplified with the 59 primers. The results indicated that there were polymorphisms on both RM279 and RM71. Their results being analyzed with MAPMAKER/EXP3.0 software, the dominant major gene was located on the top arm of rice chromosome 2 and between the two SSR markers, RM279 and RM71, with genetic distance of 12.6 cM and 13.3 cM, respectively. According to reported data, the gene was first discovered and tentatively named as Ef-3(t). In breeding practice, sterile line D64A had been bred with D64B.
16018261	A clonally propagated F2 population (F2CP), derived from the rice cross of Qimiaoxiang/91SP068, was used to map rolled leaf QTLs. As the parent Qimiaoxiang is an unrolling leaf variety, while 91SP068 is a medium rolling variety with about 34% rolling index. One major QTL, rl8, which came from 91SP068, was mapped between two flanking SSR markers, RM6954 and RM6841, on chromosome 5, with genetic distance 3.8 cM, and was 1.0 cM away from RM6954. Its additive effect estimated by composite interval mapping (CIM) was 9.61 in 2002 and 6.23 in 2003, and the dominance effect was also different between two years, -1.19 in 2002 and -4.44 in 2003, respectively. It explained about 20% - 33% of the total phenotypic variation between two years. Furthermore, an integrated physical and genetic map encompassing rl8 region was constructed, and the physical distance of the interval was 542 kb, and the ratio of physical to genetic distance was 144 kb/cM. Based on this research, fine mapping of rolled leaf QTLs will not only facilitate the map-based cloning of the gene itself, but also improve the efficiency of marker-assisted selection in plant breeding.
16018262	There existed a number of biological constraints in exploiting the heterosis of indica-japonica hybrid rice. The low-temperature-sensitive sterility (LTSS) of indica-japonica hybrid has become one of the major problems in indica-japonica hybrid rice breeding after the solution of poor fertility of the hybrids by the finding of wide-compatibility gene. Previous studies revealed that the LTSS might be caused by low-temperature-sensitive pollen sterility (LTSPS). However, the genetic basis of LTSPS remained unclear. To explore the genetic basis of LTSPS in indica-japonica hybrid rice, an F2 genetic population derived from 3037 (indica) and 02428 (japonica) was developed. At the booting stage, pollen fertility of F2 population together with parents were surveyed after the treatment with low temperature daily average of 21-23 degrees C. The linkage map was constructed containing 108 SSR markers distributed throughout the whole 12 chromosomes with average marker interval of 16.26 cM. Using software MapMaker/QTL, two putative QTLs, namely qLTSPS2 and qLTSPS5 on chromosomes 2 and 5 were detected by interval mapping, which could explain the phenotypic variation 15.6% and 11.9% respectively. The additive effects were 0.021 and 0.045, dominant effects were -0.246 and -0.215, and the degrees of dominance were 11.7 and 4.8, respectively for the two QTLs. Therefore, the mode of gene action in response to low-temperature stress was overdominance and LTSPS was mainly the result of interaction between the indica and japonica alleles within each locus. In addition, two-way ANOVA showed that the two QTLs acted essentially independent of each other in conditioning LTSPS.
16018263	The TAC clone (NK15) containing a ca.50 kb DNA insert was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 by electroporation. The NK15 was stable in Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 under kanamycin selection for many generations. The calli of mature embryo of Nongken58S were infected with the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA4404 carrying NK15. PCR and Southern analyses of transgenic plants indicated that the 50 kb of foreign DNA was transferred into the rice genome, and most of transgenic plants had one copy of the insertion. Genetic and PCR analyses of T1 progeny confirmed that the inserted forgein DNA was stably inherited.
16018264	Gene duplication has been proposed as an accelerator of evolution. Ancient genome duplication events have been identified in diverse organisms, such as yeast, vertebrates, and Arabidopsis. Here, we have identified a whole genome duplication event (WGD) in the rice genome, which took place prior to the divergence of grasses about 70 million years ago (mya). A total of 117 duplicated blocks were detected, which are distributed on all 12 chromosomes and cover about 60% of the rice genome. About 20% genes on these duplicated segments are retained as duplicate pairs. In contrast, 60% of the transcription factor genes are retained as duplicates. The identification of a WGD in the ancestral grass genome will impact the study of grass genome evolution, and suggest that polyploidization and subsequent gene losses and chromosomal rearrangements have played an important role in the diversification of grasses.
16019306	Seeds of an unconventional legume, Canavalia cathartica from the mangroves of the southwest coast of India, were screened for proximate composition, minerals, protein fractions, amino acid profiles, fatty acids and some anti-nutritional factors. The seeds consisted of 31.2%, 1.86%, 61.4% and 1580 kJ crude proteins, crude lipid, crude carbohydrates and calories, respectively. The crude protein content of seeds was higher than common cereals, whole-wheat flour (8.55%), parboiled rice (7.7%) and egg (12.6%). Essential amino acids, threonine, cysteine + methionine, isoleucine, tyrosine + phenylalanine and lysine were higher than Food and Agricultural Organization of United Nations/World Health Organization patterns. On comparing the amino acid profile of mangrove and sand dune C. cathartica seeds, the latter were found to be superior (total amino acid content, 123.5% versus 60.8%), while the result was vice versa with respect to the polyunsaturated/saturated ratio (105.9 versus 2.52). The seeds possessed 1420 mg/100 g total phenolics and strong hemagglutination activity, while tannins and trypsin inhibition activity were absent. Physical, nutritional and anti-nutritional features of seeds of C. cathartica of the mangrove have been compared with those of C. cathartica of the sand dunes of the southwest coast of India. A significant difference (P < 0.05) was observed between the physical, proximal and mineral composition except for ash, magnesium and copper. The protein efficiency ratio, food efficiency ratio, net protein retention, protein retention efficiency, biological value, net protein utilization and true digestibility of C. cathartica seeds were significantly different (P < 0.05) from casein. In spite of the high protein content, animal-feeding trials indicated low nutritional quality. Nutritional, anti-nutritional factors and protein qualities of seeds C. cathartica have been discussed in comparison with other species of Canavalia.
16019312	Yogurt-like products were prepared from a combination of skim milk and soymilk (100:0, 75:25, 50:50, 25:75, and 0:100) containing saccharified-rice solution by lactic fermentation of four different cultures. The ratio of skim milk and soy milk had no significant effect on titratable acidity, while the type and nature of culture used for fermentation affected the titratable acidity. Lower syneresis was observed in soy-based yogurt, and both the hardness and springiness of curd increased as the proportion of soymilk in the substrate increased. Skim milk-based yogurt had higher resistance to shear force with higher yield stress. The sensory quality of yogurt produced from mixed culture had higher preference compared with that produced from a single culture (Streptococcus thermophilus). There was no significant difference in texture and overall acceptability among yogurts produced from mixed substrates and skim milk-based yogurt.
16019799	Alternaria alternata and Alternaria radicina are fungal species that occur in several food crops and may produce mycotoxins and phytotoxins. The toxigenic profile of A. alternata and A. radicina isolated from carrot and other umbelliferous plants was determined by growing the fungus on rice and carrot discs. Most of the tested isolates of A. alternata produced the mycotoxins tenuazonic acid, alternariol, alternariol methyl ether and altertoxin-I on rice. Only alternariol and alternariol methyl ether were produced on carrot discs. When cultured on rice, none of the isolates of A. alternata from umbelliferous plants produced AAL toxins and fumonisins. AAL toxins, but not fumonisins, were instead produced by A. alternata f. sp. lycopersici isolate NRRL 18822 isolated from tomato. A. radicina produced the phytotoxic compounds radicinin, epi-radicinol and radicinol on carrot discs, whereas it produced radicinin and radicinol on rice. Although A. alternata has been frequently found in organic carrots, none of the above mycotoxins was detected in carrot roots or in carrot commercial products. The reduction of alternariol and alternariol methyl ether during carrot juice processing at laboratory scale was estimated to be >98%. Based on these findings and previous reports, it can be concluded that Alternaria mycotoxins in carrots do not represent a hazard for consumers.
16019814	Our goal was to develop an updated profile of aflatoxin (AF) and AF-producing fungi contamination in rice and its byproducts from the Philippines. The total AF levels in 78 samples of polished and brown rice, determined by an immunoaffinity column clean-up method coupled with HPLC (detection limit: 25 ng/kg), ranged from <0.025-2.7 microg/kg (mean of positive samples: 0.37 microg/kg) and 0.03-8.7 microg/kg (mean of positive samples: 2.7 microg/kg), respectively. The incidence (% of positive samples) of AF in polished and brown rice were 94% and 100%, respectively. The AF levels in polished rice imported from Thailand and Vietnam were approximately 20% of the levels found in locally produced polished rice. AF levels decreased as the rice progressed through the various stages in milling. Fungi recovered include toxigenic Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus with an incidence ranging from 14% in rice bran to 78% in rough rice and producing <0.025-6200 microg/kg total AF in in vitro cultures on rice. All samples of rice bran and rice hull contained AF at levels ranging from 0.27-11 microg/kg. The estimated potential daily intake of AFB(1) from rice is between 0.1 and 7.5 ng/kg of body weight/day, the mean of which is 1.0 ng representing 9.1-5.3 times the estimated tolerable daily intake for AFB(1) reported to date for Asia. Thus, Filipinos have a potentially high risk of exposure to AF that can be easily controlled through proper post-harvest handling and storage of rice and its byproducts.
16021275	Diet and nutrition are environmental factors in health/disease relationships. From the epidemiological viewpoint, diet represents a complex set of highly correlated exposures. Our objective was to identify patterns of food intake in a group of individuals living in São Paulo, and to develop objective dietary measurements for epidemiological purposes. DESIGN AND LOCAL: Exploratory factor analysis of data in a case-control study in seven teaching hospitals in São Paulo. The participants were 517 patients (260 oral cancer cases and 257 controls) admitted to the study hospitals between November 1998 and March 2001. The weekly intake frequencies for dairy products, cereals, meat, processed meat, vegetables, pulses, fruits and sweets were assessed by means of a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire. Dietary patterns were identified by factor analysis, based on the intake of the eight food groups, using principal component analysis as an extraction method followed by varimax rotation. Factor analysis identified three patterns that accounted for 55% of the total variability within the sample. The first pattern ("prudent") was characterized by vegetable, fruit and meat intake; the second ("traditional") by cereals (mainly rice) and pulses (mainly beans); and the third ("snacks") by dairy products and processed meat. This study identified food intake patterns through an a posteriori approach. Such analysis may be useful for nutritional intervention programs and, after computing scores for each individual according to the patterns identified, for establishing a relationship between diet and other epidemiological measurements of interest.
16021400	Despite the presence in nature of many functional gene families that contain several to many highly similar sequences, the presence of identical DNA sequence repeats is widely thought to predispose transgene inserts to homology dependent gene silencing (HDGS). The induction of transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) by RNAs homologous to promoter sequences has been reported recently in Arabidopsis and humans. However, mechanisms for TGS have not been studied in detail for rice, the most widely cultivated crop plant. Taking advantage of a well-characterized homozygous silenced transgenic rice line (siJKA), supertransformation was performed with a binary vector bearing mUbi1 and 35S promoter sequences identical to those in the resident transgenes. Analysis of the incoming and resident transgenes in the supertransformants revealed that the incoming mUbi1 transgene promoter was not silenced whereas the incoming 35S transgene promoter was silenced. That the resident silenced mUbi1-bar was not reactivated in these experiments as a result of passage through tissue culture and regeneration was established by the finding that regenerants from siJKA immature embryos were all silenced for mUbi1-bar. In a parallel experiment, when wild type rice calli were transformed with the same binary vector, neither of the incoming transgene promoters was silenced. Following 5-azacytidine (5-azaC) treatment of siJKA, aberrant RNA species corresponding to the 35S promoter, but not to the mUbi1 promoter, were detected. Nevertheless, no 21-25 nt RNAs corresponding to the 35S promoter sequence were detected. These results, together with detailed analyses of the progenies from the primary transformants and supertransformants, revealed that HDGS of the resident silenced locus was caused not by simple transgene duplication, but by aberrant transcripts derived from rearranged promoters present in siJKA. Practical consequences of this study include a justification for the use of multiple copies of a given promoter for transformation without inducing silencing, provided that their genomic integration does not result in aberrant transcription of the promoters.
16021404	In this paper, we report a novel pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein gene in rice. PPR, a characteristic repeat motif consisted of tandem 35 amino acids, has been found in various biological systems including plant. Sequence analysis revealed that the gene designated OsPPR1 consisted of an open reading frame of 2433 nucleotides encoding 810 amino acids that include 11 PPR motifs. Blast search result indicated that the gene did not align with any of the characterized PPR genes in plant. The OsPPR1 gene was found to contain a putative chloroplast transit peptide in the N-terminal region, suggesting that the gene product targets to the chloroplast. Southern blot hybridization indicated that the OsPPR1 is the member of a gene family within the rice genome. Expression analysis and immunoblot analysis suggested that the OsPPR1 was accumulated mainly in rice leaf. Antisense transgenic strategy was used to suppress the expression of OsPPR1 and the resulted transgenic rice showed the typical phenotypes of chlorophyll-deficient mutants; albinism and lethality. Cytological observation using microscopy revealed that the antisense transgenic plant contained a significant defect in the chloroplast development. Taken together, the results suggest that the OsPPR1 is a nuclear gene of rice, encoding the PPR protein that might play a role in the chloroplast biogenesis. This is the first report on the PPR protein required for the chloroplast biogenesis in rice.
16021500	A rice htd-1 mutant, related to tillering and dwarfing, was characterized. We show that the htd-1 mutant increases its tiller number by releasing axillary buds from dormant stage rather than by initiating more axillary buds. The dwarf is caused by averagely reducing each internode and panicle. Based on this dwarfing pattern, the htd-1 mutant could be grouped into dn-type dwarf defined by Takeda (Gamma Field Symp 16:1, 1977). In addition, the dwarfing of the htd-1 mutant was found independent of GA based on the analyses of two GA-mediated processes. Based on the quantitative determination of IAA and ABA and application of the two hormones exogenously to the seedlings, we inferred that the high tillering capacity of the htd-1 mutant should not be attributed to a defect in the synthesis of IAA or ABA. The genetic analysis of the htd-1 mutant indicated that the phenotypes of high tillering and dwarf were controlled by a recessive gene, termed htd1. By map-based cloning, the htd1 gene was fine mapped in a 30-kb DNA region on chromosome 4. Sequencing the target DNA region and comparing the counterpart DNA sequences between the htd-1 mutant and other rice varieties revealed a nucleotide substitution corresponding to an amino acid substitution from prolin to leucine in a predicted rice gene, OsCCD7, the rice orthologous gene of AtMAX3/CCD7. With the evidence of the association between the presence of one amino acid change in OsCCD7 and the abnormal phenotypes of the htd-1 mutant, OsCCD7 was identified as the candidate of the HTD1 gene.
16021752	The origin of Yakushi buddha (Bhaisajyaguru in Sanscrit, buddha of healing) is not clearly known. It has been proposed the original statue of Yakushi buddha may have been conceived from Varna, a god in Brahminism, believed to be a god of justice who possessed medicines and prolonged life. It is believed that Yakushi buddha appeared in Japan when the buddhism was imported from Korea and China in VI century, Yakushi buddha was believed more profoundly in Japan, compared with Korea and China.The reasons are probably as follows: Yakushi buddha is buddha of healing, Emperor Temmu (672-685) built Yakushi-ji temple in Nara, Emperor Shomu (724-749) built Kokubun-ji temples at principal towns. The principal statues of buddha in these temples are Yakushi buddha. In Japan, there are 252 Yakushi Buddha statues in Buddhistical Temples, which are listed in Important Cultural Property including 14 National Treasures. Belief in Yakushi Buddha was especially prevalent from the 7th to the 13th centuries in Japan. The oldest wooden Yakushi Buddha statue is in the Horin-ji temple in Nara. Among the 252 Yakushi Buddha statues, 224 are in wood, 15 are in copper, 6 are in picture and etc. 212 (84,1%) have medicinal pots (or rarely, a bowl) on the palm of left hand. However, these medicinal containers are wooden blocks. Very recently, it was found that Yakushi Buddha statue in the Suho-Kokubun-ji temple (Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan) has a medicinal pot on the palm of the left hand in which an offering (220 g materials) was found. The date on the reverse side of lid places the offering at October 12, 1699. The offering is composed of five cereals (rice, barley, wheat, soybean, adzuki bean), five medicinal plants (Acori Graminei, Acori Calami, Radix Ginseng, Flos Caryophylli, Lignum Santali Albi), and five minerals (rock crystals, purple and blue glasse, CaCO3, particles, silver and golden foils). DNA analysis proved those three randomly selected seeds of rice all belongs to the template japonica, which is predominant in the present variety of Japan.
16022765	Korea has experienced exceptionally rapid economic developments. Even though the country has managed to maintain aspects of its traditional diet, dietary habits are changing, especially among adolescents. This study was carried out to identify prevailing dietary patterns among Korean adolescents and to compare the nutrient intakes and dietary behaviours between the patterns. A 3 d diet record, collected from 671 Korean adolescents aged 12-14 years in Seoul, Korea, was assessed. By cluster analysis, subjects were classified into a modified (69.9 %) and a traditional (30.1 %) dietary pattern group. The modified group consumed more bread, noodles, cookies and pizza/hamburgers compared with the traditional group, which consumed mainly rice and kimchi (fermented cabbage). The modified group had significantly higher intakes of all nutrients. It had a higher total daily energy intake (7719 kJ), a higher daily energy intake from fat (29.8 %) and a higher cholesterol intake (326 mg/d), compared with the traditional group (6686 kJ, 24.8 % and 244 mg/d, respectively). The modified group was more likely to consume fast foods, fried foods and carbonated beverages even though they consumed more fresh fruits and milk, while the traditional group was more likely to have a rice-based diet and not to skip breakfast. These results suggest that monitoring dietary behaviours of adolescents, especially in a society experiencing a nutrition transition, is necessary in order to identify both negative and positive changes in respect of risk factors for nutrition-related chronic diseases as well as for undernutrition.
16023744	Biological effects of the biocide zinc pyrithione (Zpt), used in anti-dandruff shampoos and antifouling paints and the agricultural insecticide imidacloprid on Japanese medaka fish (Oryzias latipes) were assessed in experimental rice fields. Both chemicals are toxic to medaka, in particular Zpt, which also causes teratogenic effects such as spinal cord deformities in embryos at very low, sublethal concentrations. Rates of malformation in medaka fry from paddies treated twice a week with anti-dandruff shampoo (0.18-0.37 microL/L each time) over a period of 4 months were within the natural background, perhaps due to the quick dissipation rate of this chemical in the environment. Both Zpt and imidacloprid caused stress syndrome in juvenile medaka, with fish from Zpt-shampoo fields having a significantly lower weight to body length ratio than those from control fields. As it often happens with stressed fish, a massive infestation by a Trichodina ectoparasite was observed in medaka from imidacloprid fields. However, despite their high stress levels, fish from the Zpt fields did not suffer such infestation, supposedly because the disinfectant action of this biocide.
16024557	It has recently found that lowland rice grown hydroponically is exceptionally efficient in absorbing NO3-, raising the possibility that rice and other wetland plants growing in flooded soil may absorb significant amounts of NO3- formed by nitrification of NH4+ in the rhizosphere. This is important because (a) this NO3- is otherwise lost through denitrification in the soil bulk; and (b) plant growth and yield are generally improved when plants absorb their nitrogen as a mixture of NO3- and NH4+ compared with growth on either N source on its own. A mathematical model is developed here with which to assess the extent of NO3- absorption from the rhizosphere by wetland plants growing in flooded soil, considering the important plant and soil processes operating. The model considers rates of O2 transport away from an individual root and simultaneous O2 consumption in microbial and non-microbial processes; transport of NH4+ towards the root and its consumption in nitrification and uptake at the root surface; and transport of NO3- formed from NH4+ towards the root and its consumption in denitrification and uptake by the root. The sensitivity of the model's predictions to its input parameters is tested over the range of conditions in which wetland plants grow. The model calculations show that substantial quantities of NO3- can be produced in the rhizosphere of wetland plants through nitrification and taken up by the roots under field conditions. The rates of NO3- uptake can be comparable with those of NH4+. The model also shows that rates of denitrification and subsequent loss of N from the soil remain small even where NO3- production and uptake are considerable. Nitrate uptake by wetland plants may be far more important than thought hitherto. This has implications for managing wetland soils and water, as discussed in this paper.
16025246	GST fusion proteins of the six gene products from RNAs 2,3 and 4 of the tenuivirus, Rice stripe virus (RSV), were used to study the nucleic acid binding activities in vitro. Three of the proteins, p3, pc3 and pc4, bound both single- and double-stranded cDNA of RSV RNA4 and also RNA3 transcribed from its cDNA clone, while p2, pc2-N (the N-terminal part of pc2) nor p4 bound the cDNA or RNA transcript. The binding activity of p3 is located in the carboxyl-terminus amino acid 154-194, which contains basic amino acid rich beta-sheets. The acidic amino acid-rich amino-terminus (amino acids 1-100) of p3 did not have nucleic acid binding activity. The related analogous gene product of the tenuivirus, Rice hoja blanca virus, is a suppressor of gene silencing and the possibility of the nucleic acid binding ability of RSV p3 being associated with this property is discussed. The C-terminal part of the RSV nucleocapsid protein, which also contains a basic region, binds nucleic acids, which is consistent with its function. The central and C-terminal regions of pc4 bind nucleic acid. It has been suggested that this protein is a cell-to-cell movement protein and nucleic acid binding would be in accord with this function.
16025247	The genome of the Tenuivirus, Rice stripe virus (RSV) comprises four RNAs, the smallest three of which each contain two open reading frames (ORFs) arranged in an ambisense manner. The expression of the ORFs from RNAs 2-4 in plants and the insect vector, Laodelphax striatellus, was studied using antisera raised against the gene products. In Western blotting of the proteins from infected plants, the molecular masses of p2, p3, pc3 (nucleocapsid protein, N) and p4 (major non-structural protein, NCP) were as expected; that of pc4 appeared larger than expected. Antisera to the N- and C-terminal parts of the complementary ORF on RNA 2, analogous to that encoding glycoproteins on genomes of bunyaviruses and tospoviruses, revealed banding patterns suggestive of processing of the product; the possible processing is discussed. Four types of inclusion bodies were identified by immunofluorescent and immunogold microscopy of thin sections of infected leaves. Most electron-dense amorphous semi-electron-opaque inclusion bodies (dASO) contained only p4 while some contained at least p2, pc2-N, p3, pc3 as well as p4. A ring-like structure containing at least pc2-N, p4 and pc4 was also identified in infected plant cells. Fibrillar amorphous semi-electron-opaque inclusion bodies (fASO) contained only p4. Filamentous electron-opaque inclusion bodies (FEO), which consist of pc2-N(.)and p4, were found both in infected plant cells and in the mid-gut lumen and mid-gut epithelial cells of L. striatellus. This suggests an interaction between p4 and pc2-N and a function of pc2-N distinct from that of its-homologue in Bunyaviridae. Our results confirm the in vivo ambisense coding strategy of Tenuivirus RNA 2 and provide further evidence that RSV does not produce enveloped virions in infected rice plants.
16025655	Aflatoxins, the most powerful mycotoxins, were brought to the attention fo the people in the early 1960s with the outbreak of the turkey "X" disease in England. However, the history of mycotoxin research in Japan began 100 years ago. In 1891, Sakaki demonstrated that moldy, unpolished rice was fatal to experimental animals, with symptoms indicating paralysis of the central nervous system (Shoshin-kakke). In 1920, Prof. I. Miyake and Dr. Takada first reported that Penicillium commune, which was known as a causal agent of "Mossy diseased rice" was found to be toxic to experimental animals by feeding the moldy rice to rabbits and rats.With such a historical background, taking the idea of "rice, fungus and toxin" as a working hypothesis, Miyake and his co-workers discovered the first sample of yellow rice grains from Taiwanese and domestic rice, from which was isolated a species of Penicillium and later identified it with P. citreonigrum (=P. toxicarium). The fungus produced a highly toxic metabolite, citreoviridin. Unfortunately because this study was published during wartime, it failed to alert the world to the potential or actual dangers of the toxicity of common molds. After World War II, Japanese people suffered for some years from a shortage in domestic rice production and depended on foreign countries to supply rice, which led to the toxicological screening on fungal isolates from polluted rice grains by Dr. Tsunoda and his co-workers. AMong the isolates from imported rice, there were two species of Penicillium which were particularly associated with high toxicity; P. islandicum responsible for brownish discolored rice, and P. citrinum responsible for yellowish rice. P. islandicum produces two hepatotoxic metabolites: luteoskyrin and cyclochlorotine, while a nephrotoxic of P. citrinum is citrinin. These toxicological characters, including the induction of cancer and chemical structures, were studied by Profs. uraguchi, Saito, Shibata, Tatsuno and their co-workers. In this way, toxic disturbances associated with the consumption of rice contaminated with these Peniciliium species occurred and became known under the collective name of the "Yellow rice syndrome". Although no human cases of poisoning were recorded, scientists in the field of mycotoxin research recommended to the Japanese Government that administrative action should be taken to protect the people against any possible hazards from "yellow rice". Consequently, mycological inspections of imported rice were started by the government. The safety control system for domestic rice during post-harvest handling and long-term storage has been progressively established after learning of these problems.
16026026	This study investigated the presence of pesticide residues in table-ready foods in Tanzania. One-hundred-and-eighty nine samples of 11 widely used foods at table ready stage were analysed using US FDA multi-residue methods. Pesticide residues were detected in 29% of all samples analysed. The spread of contamination in individual foods was: spinach 72.7%, rice 50%, beef meat 42.1%, stiff porridge 8.6%, and beans 6.7%. After allocating Non-detects levels a half value of Method Detection Limit i.e., (MDL)/2, the mean concentrations of the pesticide residues in the foods were; In spinach: g-HCH 0.08 microg/kg; DDT 2.89 microg/kg; Chlorpyrifos 0.02 microg/kg. In rice: g-HCH 0.08 microg/kg; DDT 1.70 microg/kg; and Chlorpyrifos 0.02 microg/kg. In beef meat: g-HCH 0.14 microg/kg; DDT 0.76 microg/kg. In stiff porridge: g-HCH 0.06 microg/kg; and DDT 0.30 microg/kg. In beans: g-HCH 0.04 microg/kg; and DDT 0.13 microg/kg. In fish variety: g-HCH 0.05 microg/kg. Converted into consumer Average Daily Doses, these concentrations were within ADI/ PTDI levels set by CODEX and, therefore, posed no significant health risk. However, the presence of pp-DDT in many samples indicates a possible recent contamination of food raw materials with DDT. A more effective pesticides control system should be put in place before lifting the ban on DDT for restricted uses in vector control programs in Tanzania.
16026770	Two reactions were studied with three varieties of starch granules from maize, wheat, and rice. In Reaction-I, the granules were reacted with 1 mM ADP-[(14)C]Glc and in Reaction-II, a portion of the granules from Reaction-I was reacted with 1 mM ADP-Glc. The starch granules were solubilized and reacted with the exo-acting glucoamylase and beta-amylase to an extent of 50% or less of the (14)C-label. The amounts of (14)C-labeled products from glucoamylase and beta-amylase were nearly equal for Reaction-I and Reaction-II. If the addition had been to the nonreducing ends of primers, Reaction-II would not have given any labeled products from the hydrolysis of glucoamylase and beta-amylase. These results indicate that the elongation of the starch chain is the addition of D-glucose to the reducing end by a de novo two-site insertion mechanism and not by the addition of D-glucose to the nonreducing end of a primer. This is in conformity with previous results in which starch granules were pulsed with ADP-[(14)C]Glc and chased with nonlabeled ADP-Glc, giving (14)C-labeled D-glucitol from the pulsed starch and a significant decrease in (14)C-labeled D-glucitol from the chased starch on reducing with NaBH(4) and hydrolyzing with glucoamylase [Carbohydr. Res.2002, 337, 1015-1022]. It also is in conformity with the inhibition of starch synthesis that occurs when putative primers are added to starch granule-ADP-Glc digests, indicating that the elongation is not by the nonreducing-end primer mechanism [Carbohydr. Res.2005, 340, 245-255].
16027131	Anoxia-tolerant plant tissues synthesize a number of proteins during anoxia, in addition to the 'classical anaerobic proteins' involved in glycolysis and fermentation. The present study used a model system of rice coleoptile tips to elucidate patterns of protein synthesis in this anoxia-tolerant plant tissue. Coleoptile tips 7-11 mm long were excised from intact seedlings exposed to anoxia, or excised from hypoxically pre-treated seedlings and then exposed to anoxia for 72 h. Total proteins or 35S-labelled proteins were extracted, separated using two-dimensional isoelectric focusing/SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and analysed using mass spectrometry. The coleoptile tips excised after intact seedlings had been exposed to anoxia for 72 h had a similar proteome to tips that were first excised and then exposed to anoxia. After 72 h anoxia, Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibitors and a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein decreased in abundance, whereas a nucleoside diphosphate kinase and several proteins with unknown functions were strongly enhanced. Using [35S]methionine as label, proteins synthesized at high levels in anoxia, and also in aeration, included a nucleoside diphosphate kinase, a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein, a putative elicitor-inducible protein and a putative actin-depolymerizing factor. Proteins synthesized predominately in anoxia included a pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK), alcohol dehydrogenase 1 and 2, fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase and a protein of unknown function. The induction of PPDK in anoxic rice coleoptiles might, in combination with pyruvate kinase (PK), enable operation of a 'substrate cycle' producing PPi from ATP. Production of PPi would (a) direct energy to crucial transport processes across the tonoplast (i.e. the H+-PPiase); (b) be required for sucrose hydrolysis via sucrose synthase; and (c) enable acceleration of glycolysis, via pyrophosphate:fructose 6-phosphate 1-phosphotransferase (PFP) acting in parallel with phosphofructokinase (PFK), thus enhancing ATP production in anoxic rice coleoptiles; ATP production would need to be increased if there was a substantial requirement for PPi.
16027969	Increasing incidence and awareness of arsenic in many alluvial aquifers of South-east Asia has raised concern over possible arsenic in the Lower Mekong Basin. Here, we have undertaken new research and reviewed many previous small-scale studies to provide a comprehensive overview of the status of arsenic in aquifers of Cambodia and the Cuu Long Delta of Vietnam. In general natural arsenic originates from the Upper Mekong basin, rather than from the local geology, and is widespread in soils at typical concentrations of between 8 and 16 ppm; (dry weight). Industrial and agricultural arsenic is localised and relatively unimportant compared to the natural alluvial arsenic. Aquifers most typically contain groundwaters of no more than 10 microg L(-1), although scattered anomalous areas of 10 to 30 microg L(-1)are also quite common. The most serious, but possibly ephemeral arsenic anomalies, of up to 600 microg L(-1), are associated with iron and organic-rich flood-plain sediments subject to very large flood-related fluctuations in water level, resulting in transient arsenopyrite dissolution under oxidizing conditions. In general, however, high-arsenic groundwaters result from the competing interaction between sorption and dissolution processes, in which arsenic is only released under reducing and slightly alkaline conditions. High arsenic groundwaters are found both in shallow water-tables, and in deeper aquifers of between 100 and 120 m depth. There is no evidence of widespread arsenicosis, but there are serious localised health-hazards, and some risk of low-level arsenic ingestion through indirect pathways, such as through contaminated rice and aquaculture. An almost ubiquitous presence of arsenic in soils, together with the likelihood of greatly increased groundwater extraction in the future, will require continuing caution in water resources development throughout the region.
16027975	Four amino acids were variable between the 'active' indica-type and 'inactive' japonica-type soluble starch synthase IIa (SSIIa) of rice plants; Glu-88 and Gly-604 in SSIIa of indica-cultivars IR36 and Kasalath were replaced by Asp-88 and Ser-604, respectively, in both japonica cultivars Nipponbare and Kinmaze SSIIa, whereas Val-737 and Leu-781 in indica SSIIa were replaced by Met-737 in cv. Nipponbare and Phe-781 in cv. Kinmaze SSIIa, respectively. The SSIIa gene fragments shuffling experiments revealed that Val-737 and Leu-781 are essential not only for the optimal SSIIa activity, but also for the capacity to synthesize indica-type amylopectin. Surprisingly, however, a combination of Phe-781 and Gly-604 could restore about 44% of the SSIIa activity provided that Val-737 was conserved. The introduction of the 'active' indica-type SSIIa gene enabled the japonica-type cv. Kinmaze to synthesize indica-type amylopectin. The starch in the transformed japonica rice plants exhibited gelatinization-resistant properties that are characteristic of indica-rice starch. Transformed lines expressing different levels of the IR36 SSIIa protein produced a variety of starches with amylopectin chain-length distribution patterns that correlated well with their onset temperatures of gelatinization. The present study confirmed that the SSIIa activity determines the type of amylopectin structure of rice starch to be either the typical indica-type or japonica-type, by playing a specific role in the synthesis of the long B(1) chains by elongating short A and B(1) chains, notwithstanding the presence of functional two additional SSII genes, a single SSI gene, two SSIII genes, and two SSIV genes in rice plants.
16028114	To identify the gibberellin (GA) signaling components involved in rice leaf sheath elongation process, protein phosphorylation changed by GA3 was analyzed. The protein kinase activities in rice leaf sheath were assessed in an in-gel kinase assay using SDS-polyacrylamide gel containing histone III-S as a substrate. The activity of a putative 54-kDa calcium dependent protein kinase (CDPK) in cytosolic fraction in rice leaf sheath increased significantly by GA3. Further, phosphorylation status of the proteins changed by GA3 in rice leaf sheath were detected by in vitro protein phosphorylation followed by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the phosphoproteins were identified by mass spectrometry. Sixty phosphoproteins was detected after in vitro protein phosphorylation and the phosphorylation of 7 proteins was enhanced by GA3 treatment. The addition of GA3 treated cytosolic fraction of leaf sheath further increased the phosphorylation of 4 proteins, glyoxalase-I, cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase, glyceraldehydes-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and another unknown protein. The protein kinase inhibitor, staurosporine inhibited the phosphorylation of these proteins in vitro. Other hormones, particularly, indole acetic acid, 6-benzylaminopurine and abscisic acid did not change the phosphorylation status of these proteins. The identified proteins did not show any change by GA3 treatment at transcription level. The abundance of glyoxalase-I and cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase remained unchanged by GA3 treatment as detected on 2D-gel by silver staining, unlike for glyceraldehydes-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Results suggest that the phosphoproteins, glyoxalase-I and cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase in rice leaf sheath could be important signaling components of GA3, downstream to 54-kDa CDPK.
16028121	ZmOCL1 is the founding member of the ZmOCL (Outer Cell Layer) family encoding putative transcription factors of the HD-ZIP IV class. It is expressed in the L1 cell layer of the embryo and several other tissues of maize. After determination of the intron/exon structure a mutator insertion was isolated in the upstream region. No notable phenotypes and wildtype levels of ZmOCL1 transcript were observed in homozygous mutant plants. In contrast transgenic plants carrying a fusion of the repressor domain of the Drosophila Engrailed gene with the DNA binding and dimerisation domains of ZmOCL1 showed a transient reduction of embryo, endosperm and kernel size that was most obvious around 15 DAP. An inverse relationship was observed between the degree of size reduction and the expression level of the transcript. In reciprocal crosses the size reduction was only observed when the transgenic plants were used as females and no expression of male transmitted transgenes was detected. Smaller kernels resembled younger kernels of wild-type siblings indicating that interference with ZmOCL1 function leads to an overall slow-down of early kernel development. Based on marker gene analysis ZmOCL1 may act via a modification of gibberellin levels. Phylogenetic analyses based on the intron/exon structure and sequence similarities of ZmOCL1 and other HD-ZIP IV proteins from maize, rice and Arabidopsis helped to identify orthologues and suggested an evolution in the function of individual genes after the divergence of monocots and dicots.
16028495	Iron deficiency is probably the most widespread micronutrient deficiency in humans. Since rice is the main staple food for more than half of the global population, improving the iron content and bioavailability in rice is a perspective and an effective way to alleviate or even solve this problem. The present paper evaluates the iron content in different cereal foods (black rice, rice, red rice, sticky rice and millet) and different rice seeds as well as in the milling products, and the iron bioavailability of different forms. The data show that the iron content in black rice is higher than in the other rice types, and in rice chaff and husk the content is still fairly high. However, the iron content in rice and fine rice, which are the people's main staple food, is fairly low. As to the bioavailability of iron, it is fairly low in vegetable foods, almost at the level of 10%. Several methods have been applied to improve iron content and bioavailability in rice seed. Apart from breeding and genetic engineering, biochemical and physical approaches have frequently been used as prospective methods to regulate iron content and bioavailability in rice grains.
1603057	Albino rice plants derived from pollen contain plastid genomes that have suffered large-scale deletions. From the roots of albino plants, we obtained several calli containing homogeneous plastid DNA differing in the size and position of the deletion. DNA differing in the size and position of the deletion. Southern blotting and pulsed field gel electrophoresis experiments revealed that the DNAs were linear molecules having a hairpin structure at both termini, existing as monomers (19 kb) or dimers, trimers and tetramers linked to form head-to-head and tail-to-tail multimers. This characteristic form is similar to that of the vaccinia virus, in which the replication origin is thought to lie at or near the hairpin termini. Furthermore, polymerase chain reaction experiments revealed complete loss of the ribosomal RNA genes of the plastid DNA. The results suggest that plant cells can grow without translation occurring in plastids. All of the deleted plastid DNAs commonly retained the region containing the tRNA(Glu) gene (trnE), which is essential for biosynthesis of porphyrin. As porphyrin is the precursor of heme for mitochondria and other organelles, it is considered that trnE on the remnant plastid genome may be transcribed by an RNA polymerase encoded on nuclear DNA.
16032970	The effects of policosanol (P), of extract of red yeast rice (rice fermented with Monascus purpureus) (RYE) and of astaxanthin (A) (constituents of Armolipid) were investigated in a model of experimental atherosclerosis provoked in the rabbit by atherogenic cholesterol-enriched feed (ACEF). P and RYE and their combination were able to lower the increase of serum total cholesterol and of LDL cholesterol elicited by 3-month feeding with ACEF. They also were able to reduce the increase of blood malondialdehyde (MDA), a tracer of lipid peroxidation by the free radicals released by ACEF. When combined, the substances developed either additive or potentiated effects, supporting the rationale of their combination. Remarkable was the protective effect on lipid infiltration in the aortic wall provoked by ACEF, which was reduced by P and by RYE and almost completely prevented by the addition of A to the P-RYE combination. The results support the rationale of a combination of P, RYE and A as a useful food supplement in hyperlipemic patients.
16033508	To develop medida, a Sudanese fermented thin porridge as a probiotic dietary adjunct with high total solids. Fifteen per cent brown rice flour of 2-day-old malted paddy and skim milk were used for formulation. Levels of 2.25, 4.5 and 10% of added skim milk were studied. The initial pH was 6.7 and fermentation was run to a final pH of 4.4 using culture of Bifidobacterium longum BB 536. The highest count of 9.9 +/- 0.07 log CFU ml(-1) was obtained with 10% of added skim milk. The total solids at this level was 21%, 11.1 times more compared with the traditionally prepared medida using un-malted brown rice. The viscosity was low and the flowing characteristic was stable. The final productions of lactic and acetic acids were 56.8 +/- 0.80 and 56.3 +/- 2.00 mumol ml(-1) respectively. The high ratio of acetate to lactate decreased as fermentation continues due to the increase in the rate of lactate production. Under refrigerated storage the count of B. longum BB 536 remained relatively stable during the first week (9.7 +/- 0.10 log CFU ml(-1)) then subsequently decreased by 0.9 log CFU ml(-1) in the following week. The results of this study demonstrated that fermented medida made from malted brown rice is a suitable food system for the delivery of B. longum BB 536 with a relatively stable shelf life. The present study is the first attempt to prepare fermented medida from malted flour with bifidobacteria having the highest total solids while still maintaining the flowing characteristics. Previous studies on medida did not go beyond the use of alpha amylase enzyme and pure lactic acid bacteria isolates from spontaneously fermented dough.
16033806	Plant aquaporins form a large protein family including plasma membrane-type (PIPs) and tonoplast-type aquaporins (TIPs), and facilitate osmotic water transport across membranes as a key physiological function. We identified 33 genes for aquaporins in the genome sequence of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). We investigated their expression levels in leaf blades, roots and anthers of rice (cv. Akitakomachi) using semi-quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR). At both early tillering (21 d after germination) and panicle formation (56 d) stages, six genes, including OsPIP2;4 and OsPIP2;5, were expressed predominantly in roots, while 14 genes, including OsPIP2;7 and OsTIP1;2, were found in leaf blades. Eight genes, such as OsPIP1;1 and OsTIP4;1, were evenly expressed in leaf blades, roots and anthers. Analysis by stopped-flow spectrophotometry revealed high water channel activity when OsPIP2;4 or OsPIP2;5 were expressed in yeast but not when OsPIP1;1 or OsPIP1;2 were expressed. Furthermore, the mRNA levels of OsPIP2;4 and OsPIP2;5 showed a clear diurnal fluctuation in roots; they showed a peak 3 h after the onset of light and dropped to a minimum 3 h after the onset of darkness. The mRNA levels of 10 genes including OsPIP2;4 and OsPIP2;5 markedly decreased in roots during chilling treatment and recovered after warming. The changes in mRNA levels during and after the chilling treatment were comparable with that of the bleeding sap volume. These results suggested the relationship between the root water uptake and mRNA levels of several aquaporins with high water channel activity, such as OsPIP2;4 and OsPIP2;5.
16034582	The increasing availability of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and related cereals provides a valuable resource of non-anonymous DNA molecular markers. In this study, 300 primer pairs were designed from 265 wheat ESTs that contain microsatellites in order to develop new markers for wheat. Their level of transferability in eight related species [Triticum durum, T. monococcum, Aegilops speltoides, Ae. tauschii, rye (Secale cereale), barley (Hordeum vulgare), Agropyron elongatum and rice (Oryza sativa)] was assessed. In total, 240 primer pairs (80%) gave an amplification product on wheat, and 177 were assigned to wheat chromosomes using aneuploid lines. Transferability to closely related Triticeae species ranged from 76.7% for Ae. tauschii to 90.4% for T. durum and was lower for more distant relatives such as barley (50.4%) or rice (28.3%). No clear putative function could be assigned to the genes from which the simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were developed, even though most of them were located inside ORFs. BLAST: analysis of the EST sequences against the 12 rice pseudo-molecules showed that the EST-SSRs are mainly located in the telomeric regions and that the wheat ESTs have the highest similarity to genes on rice chromosomes 2, 3 and 5. Interestingly, most of the SSRs giving an amplification product on barley or rice had a repeated motif similar to the one found in wheat, suggesting a common ancestral origin. Our results indicate that wheat EST-SSRs show a high level of transferability across distantly related species, thereby providing additional markers for comparative mapping and for following gene introgressions from wild species and carrying out evolutionary studies.
16035241	Rhizoctonia solani isolates varying in their virulence were tested for their ability to produce oxalic acid (OA) in vitro. The results indicated that the virulent isolates produced more OA than the less virulent isolates. In order to isolate OA-detoxifying strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens, rhizosphere soil of rice was drenched with 100 mM OA and fluorescent pseudomonads were isolated from the OA-amended soil by using King's medium B. These isolates were tested for their antagonistic effect towards growth of R. solani in vitro. Among them P. fluorescens PfMDU2 was the most effective in inhibiting the mycelial growth of R. solani. P. fluorescens PfMDU2 was capable of detoxifying OA and several proteins were detected in the culture filtrate of PfMDU2 when it was grown in medium containing OA. To investigate whether the gene(s) involved in OA-detoxification resides on the plasmids in P. fluorescens PfMDU2, a plasmid-deficient strain of P. fluorescens was generated by plasmid curing. The plasmid-deficient strain (PfMDU2P-) failed to grow in medium containing OA and did not inhibit the growth of R. solani. Both PfMDU2 and PfMDU2P- were tested for their efficacy in controlling sheath blight of rice under greenhouse conditions. Seed treatment followed by soil application of rice with P. fluorescens strain, PfMDU2, reduced the severity of sheath blight by 75% compared with the control, whereas PfMDU2P- failed to control sheath blight disease.
16036579	Small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) are a kind of noncoding RNAs, and the vast majority of snoRNAs are involved in site-specific modifications of rRNAs. A novel box C/D snoRNA called snoR124 was found inOryza sativa, and it can direct 2'-O-ribose methylation of spliceosomal small nuclear RNAs (snRNAs). The snoRNA has two antisense elements, and the results of primer extensions at different dNTP concentrations provide evidence that snoR124 guide 2'-O-methylations of the C76 residue in the U4 snRNA and the T91 residue in the U5 snRNA. In addition, this snoRNA is located in a snoRNA gene cluster with another 7 snoRNAs which are identified to direct ribose methylations in rRNAs. This is consistent with the opinion that the snoRNA gene organization in plant is mainly gene cluster. The snoR124 is the first example of a snoRNA that directs modifications of RNAs other than rRNAs in plant; it will avail to get more insights into the function of snoRNAs in plant.
16036615	So far, plants have been genetically modified essentially to achieve resistance to herbicides, or to pathogens (mainly insects, or viruses), but resistance to abiotic stresses (such as cold, heat, drought, or salt) is also being studied. Genetically modified (GM) plants with improved nutritional qualities have more recently been developed, such as plants containing higher proportions of unsaturated fatty acids (omega-3 and omega-6) in their oil (to prevent cardio-vascular diseases), or containing beta-carotene as in the golden rice (to prevent vitamin A deficiency). Possible risks for human health (such as the production of allergenic proteins), or for the environment (such as the appearance of superweeds as a result from gene flow), should be carefully studied, and a science-based assessment of benefits vs. risks should be made on a case by case basis, both for GM plants and for plants obtained by conventional breeding methods.
16038579	The effect of crude and partially purified extracts from ultraviolet-B (UV-B)-irradiated rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves on the growth and development of corn earworm, Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), was investigated. Fifty muL droplets of a liquid diet containing different concentrations of the crude and partially purified extracts were fed to H. armigera neonates to determine possible short-term toxicity effects. A choice test using a solid artificial diet was also performed to determine larval feeding preferences and antifeedant effects. To study effects on the life history of the insect, different concentrations of the crude and partially purified extracts were also incorporated in the artificial diet and fed to individually confined neonates of H. armigera. The neonates were reared up to the adult stage. Results showed that crude and partially purified extracts of UV-B-irradiated rice leaves demonstrated antifeedant, growth-inhibitory and antibiotic properties against H. armigera. At high concentrations, the extract initially stimulated larval feeding; however, there were subsequent negative effects on pupal and adult traits, thereby reducing the reproductive potential of adults. These partially purified extracts appeared to have an antifertility effect because adults laid fewer eggs and, of those eggs laid, viability was lower. These results suggest that the accumulated flavonoids or other phenolics in UV-B-irradiated leaves, extracted from UV-B-resistant rice cultivar 'M202,' affected the growth, development and reproduction of H. armigera, a polyphagous insect pest.
1603945
16040351	Two new insertion sequences (IS1112 and IS1113) were identified in the genome of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight of rice. Three copies of IS1112 were trapped, one containing 1052-bp and the other two with 1055-bp. They all have 25-bp imperfect inverted repeats with a 3-bp duplication at the site of insertion. They contain an open reading frame (ORF) of 317 and 318 amino acid residues, respectively. IS1113 is 1306-bp, contains 25-bp imperfect terminal inverted repeats, and is flanked by a 9-bp direct repeat at the site of insertion. It contains an ORF of 395 amino acid residues.
16040652	Molecular genetic studies of plant dwarf mutants have indicated that gibberellin (GA) and brassinosteroid (BR) are two major factors that determine plant height; dwarf mutants that are caused by other defects are relatively rare, especially in monocot species. Here, we report a rice (Oryza sativa) dwarf mutant, dwarf and gladius leaf 1 (dgl1), which exhibits only minimal response to GA and BR. In addition to the dwarf phenotype, dgl1 produces leaves with abnormally rounded tip regions. Positional cloning of DGL1 revealed that it encodes a 60-kD microtubule-severing katanin-like protein. The protein was found to be important in cell elongation and division, based on the observed cell phenotypes. GA biosynthetic genes are up-regulated in dgl1, but the expression of BR biosynthetic genes is not enhanced. The enhanced expression of GA biosynthetic genes in dgl1 is not caused by inappropriate GA signaling because the expression of these genes was repressed by GA3 treatment, and degradation of the rice DELLA protein SLR1 was triggered by GA3 in this mutant. Instead, aberrant microtubule organization caused by the loss of the microtubule-severing function of DGL1 may result in enhanced expression of GA biosynthetic genes in that enhanced expression was also observed in a BR-deficient mutant with aberrant microtubule organization. These results suggest that the function of DGL1 is important for cell and organ elongation in rice, and aberrant DGL1-mediated microtubule organization causes up-regulation of gibberellin biosynthetic genes independently of gibberellin signaling.
16040654	Rice (Oryza sativa) anthranilate synthase alpha-subunit, OASA2, was modified by in vitro mutagenesis based on structural information from bacterial homologs. Twenty-four amino acid residues, predicted as putative tryptophan binding sites or their proximal regions in the OASA2 sequence, were selected and 36 mutant OASA2 genes were constructed by PCR-based site-directed mutagenesis. Corresponding mutant proteins were synthesized in a combination of two in vitro systems, transcription with a bacteriophage SP6 RNA polymerase and translation with a wheat-embryo cell-free system. Enzymatic functions of the mutant proteins were simultaneously examined, and we found six mutants with elevated catalytic activity and five mutants with enhanced tolerance to feedback inhibition by tryptophan. Moreover, we observed that some sets of specific combinations of the novel mutations additively conferred both characteristics to the mutant enzymes. The functions of the mutant enzymes were confirmed in vivo. The free tryptophan content of mutant rice calli expressing OASA2 enzyme with a double mutation was 30-fold of that of untransformed calli. Thus, our in vitro approach utilizing structural information of bacterial homologs is a potent technique to generate designer enzymes with predefined functions.
16040665	FtsH is an ATP-dependent metalloprotease found in bacteria, mitochondria, and plastids. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains 12 AtFtsH proteins, three in the mitochondrion and nine in the chloroplast. Four of the chloroplast FtsH proteins are encoded by paired members of closely related genes (AtFtsH1 and 5, and AtFtsH2 and 8). We have previously reported that AtFtsH2 and 8 are interchangeable components of AtFtsH complexes in the thylakoid membrane. In this article, we show that the var1 variegation mutant, which is defective in AtFtsH5, has a coordinate reduction in the AtFtsH2 and 8 pair, and that the levels of both pairs are restored to normal in var1 plants that overexpress AtFtsH1. Overexpression of AtFtsH1, but not AtFtsH2/VAR2, normalizes the pattern of var1 variegation, restoring a nonvariegated phenotype. We conclude that AtFtsH proteins within a pair, but not between pairs, are interchangeable and functionally redundant, at least in part. We further propose that the abundance of each pair is matched with that of the other pair, with excess subunits being turned over. The variegation phenotype of var1 (as well as var2, which is defective in AtFtsH2) suggests that a threshold concentration of subunits is required for normal chloroplast function. AtFtsH1, 2, 5, and 8 do not show evidence of tissue or developmental specific expression. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis share a conserved core of seven FtsH subunit genes, including the AtFtsH1 and 5 and AtFtsH2 and 8 pairs, and that the structure of the present-day gene families can be explained by duplication events in each species following the monocot/dicot divergence.
16040802	The functional centromeres of rice (Oryza sativa, AA genome) chromosomes contain two key DNA components: the CRR centromeric retrotransposons and a 155-bp satellite repeat, CentO. However, several wild Oryza species lack the CentO repeat. We developed a chromatin immunoprecipitation-based technique to clone DNA fragments derived from chromatin containing the centromeric histone H3 variant CenH3. Chromatin immunoprecipitation cloning was carried out in the CentO-less species Oryza rhizomatis (CC genome) and Oryza brachyantha (FF genome). Three previously uncharacterized genome-specific satellite repeats, CentO-C1, CentO-C2, and CentO-F, were discovered in the centromeres of these two species. An 80-bp DNA region was found to be conserved in CentO-C1, CentO, and centromeric satellite repeats from maize and pearl millet, species which diverged from rice many millions of years ago. In contrast, the CentO-F repeat shows no sequence similarity to other centromeric repeats but has almost completely replaced other centromeric sequences in O. brachyantha, including the CRR-related sequences that normally constitute a significant fraction of the centromeric DNA in grass species.
16041362	The external appearance of flowering plants is determined to a large extent by the forms of flower-bearing branch systems, known as inflorescences, and their position in the overall structure of the plant. Branches and branching patterns are produced by tissues called shoot apical meristems. Thus, inflorescence architecture reflects meristem number, arrangement and activity, and the duration of meristem activity correlates with branch length. The inflorescences of maize, unlike those of related grasses such as rice and sorghum, predominantly lack long branches, giving rise to the tassel and familiar corncob. Here we report the isolation of the maize ramosa1 gene and show that it controls inflorescence architecture. Through its expression in a boundary domain near the nascent meristem base, ramosa1 imposes short branch identity as branch meristems are initiated. A second gene, ramosa2, acts through ramosa1 by regulating ramosa1 gene expression levels. ramosa1 encodes a transcription factor that appears to be absent in rice, is heterochronically expressed in sorghum, and may have played an important role in maize domestication and grass evolution.
16042010	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice. A mutation was isolated in the ferric uptake regulator (fur) gene of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and it was shown to result in the production of siderophores in a constitutive manner. The fur mutant is hypersensitive to the metallo-antibiotic streptonigrin, a phenotype that is indicative of intracellular free-iron overload, and also exhibits a slow growth phenotype on rich medium. The fur mutant is virulence deficient, hypersensitive to hydrogen peroxide, and exhibits reduced catalase activity. Exogenous supplementation with ascorbic acid (an antioxidant) rescues the growth deficiency of the fur mutant in rice leaves. The virulence deficiency of the X. oryzae pv. oryzae fur mutant is proposed to be due, at least in part, to an impaired ability to cope with the oxidative stress conditions that are encountered during infection.
16043430	We identified five cation/H(+) exchangers (CAX) from rice, and phylogenetically divided them into two clusters. Gene expression and absolute amounts of mRNA in different organs were analyzed by real-time PCR. OsCAX1a showed high expression in almost all organs. OsCAX1b and OsCAX1c were detected in a limited number of organs and their expression levels were very low. The mRNA levels of OsCAX2 and OsCAX3 varied with the organ. OsCAXs were heterologously expressed in yeast to characterize the ion transport activity. All exchangers, except for OsCAX2, conferred tolerance to calcium. OsCAX1a and OsCAX3 conferred tolerance to manganese. The diversity of expression sites and substrates suggest the broad range function of CAX.
16044916	Bulked segregant analysis method was used to identify random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers linked to the fertility restoring gene for the cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) capsicum annum L. Totally 336 random primers were screened on the DNA samples of restorer and sterile bulks. Primer S418 produced a special band in restorer line. It was about 3000 bp, including two fragments 1515 bp and 1162 bp. Fluorescence in situ hybridization(FISH) indicated the fragment of 1515 bp only existed in restorer line.It was designed to S418(1515). Analysis of the sequence indicated S418(1515) was unknown before. The homology of blastn was less than 40%, however the homology of tBlastx indicated this sequence was high homologous with the part sequences of rice which were distributed on 2,4,7,10 chromosomes. It suggested this sequence might have the similar function with them. This result offered a good foundation to research the molecular mechanism of fertility restoration for CMS capsicum. Based on the sequence, special primers were designed to transform the RAPD marker to PCR marker. The result indicated that these primers could be used to screen the restorer lines from a large quantitive of candidate lines.
16045470	In dicotyledonous plants broad-spectrum resistance to pathogens is established after the induction of the systemic acquired resistance (SAR) response. In Arabidopsis the NPR1 protein can regulate SAR by interacting with members of the TGA class of basic, leucine-zipper transcription factors to alter pathogenesis-related (PR) gene expression. Overexpression of (At)NPR1 in Arabidopsis enhances resistance to multiple pathogens. Similarly, overexpression of (At)NPR1 in rice enhances resistance to the bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). These results suggest that components of the (At)NPR1-mediated SAR defense response may be conserved between monocots and dicots. To determine whether or not rice TGA factors are involved in disease resistance responses, the effect of altering the function of rice TGA2.1 was analyzed in transgenic plants. Transgenic rice overexpressing an rTGA2.1 mutant, that can no longer bind DNA, and transgenic rice that have the endogenous rTGA2.1 silenced by dsRNA-mediated silencing were generated. Both types of transgenic rice displayed increased tolerance to Xoo, were dwarfed, and had altered accumulation of PR genes. The results presented in this study suggest that wild-type rTGA2.1 has primarily a negative role in rice basal defense responses to bacterial pathogens.
16046061	Equilibrium parameters for Bismarck brown onto rice husk were estimated by linear least square and a trial and error non-linear method using Freundlich, Langmuir and Redlich-Peterson isotherms. A comparison between linear and non-linear method of estimating the isotherm parameters was reported. The best fitting isotherm was Langmuir isotherm and Redlich-Peterson isotherm equation. The results show that non-linear method could be a better way to obtain the parameters. Redlich-Peterson isotherm is a special case of Langmuir isotherm when the Redlich-Peterson isotherm constant g was unity.
16047028	A comprehensive, multiround survey of local food systems in a rickets-endemic area of Bangladesh was conducted to identify household-level risk factors for rickets. A household-level, case-control study was conducted in a rickets-endemic area, Chakaria, with planned comparisons between households with one or more rachitic child and neighboring households with no affected children. A rickets-endemic area of southeastern Bangladesh, Chakaria. An interview-based survey was conducted in six villages in Chakaria with 199 households with at least one child showing physical signs consistent with rickets and 281 households with no affected children. Households with rachitic children in Chakaria had more children, more pregnant or lactating women, and fewer adults than unaffected households in that community. Affected households tended to rely on farming for their livelihood and tended to have less economic activity as indicated by less outstanding debt than their neighbors. Households with rickets were at significantly greater risk of pneumonia than were other households. Calcium undernutrition was severe and widespread in Chakaria due to a food system that offered very little of the element in accessible forms. Household diets were based on cereals and starchy vegetables. Rice and fish constituted the major source of calcium for most households, although dairy products, when used, were very important calcium sources, particularly for young children. In fact, the use of dairy products was the only household choice that led to substantial increases in the calcium intakes of children, and households that used dairy products tended to show increased calcium intakes for all of their members. The risk of a Chakarian household having a child with rickets appeared to be related to its economic status. Although this might be expected to be manifest as limitations in food access and/or use, rickets households failed to show a dietary pattern associated with rickets. Calcium undernutrition was prevalent and, thus, would appear to be a predisposing factor for rickets; however, calcium undernutrition was prevalent in Chakarian households with and without rickets. Therefore, it is probable that another precipitating factor(s) play a role(s) in the etiology of rickets in Chakaria.
16047720	Cauliflower is a vegetable belonging to the family Cruciferae, genus Brassica, var. Botrytis. We report the case of a 70 year-old man who suffered an acute episode consisting of oropharyngeal itching, facial and hand swelling, dyspnea and severe bronchospasm within a few minutes after eating vegetable paella containing cauliflower, green beans, red and green pepper. Due to the severity of the reaction he needed treatment in the emergency room. Skin prick tests with common aeroallergens were positive to Cupressus, Platanus and grass pollen. A strong skin prick test response was obtained with cauliflower and peach lipid transfer protein. Skin prick test with rice, green beans and pepper were negative. Specific IgE determinations were positive to cabbage and cauliflower, and negative to mustard. The clinical history and the results of the allergologic work-up point out to this patient having experienced an IgE-mediated anaphylactic reaction to cauliflower. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of anaphylaxis due to cauliflower.
16049029	DNA encodes at least two independent levels of functional information. The first level is for encoding proteins and sequence targets for DNA-binding factors, while the second one is contained in the physical and structural properties of the DNA molecule itself. Although the physical and structural properties are ultimately determined by the nucleotide sequence itself, the cell exploits these properties in a way in which the sequence itself plays no role other than to support or facilitate certain spatial structures. In this work, we focus on these structural properties, comparing them between different organisms and assessing their ability to describe the core promoter. We prove the existence of distinct types of core promoters, based on a clustering of their structural profiles. These results indicate that the structural profiles are much conserved within plants (Arabidopsis and rice) and animals (human and mouse), but differ considerably between plants and animals. Furthermore, we demonstrate that these structural profiles can be an alternative way of describing the core promoter, in addition to more classical motif or IUPAC-based approaches. Using the structural profiles as discriminatory elements to separate promoter regions from non-promoter regions, reliable models can be built to identify core-promoter regions using a strictly computational approach.
16049765	The recombination reactions of Photosystem II have been investigated in vivo in rice leaves by using the thermoluminescence (TL) emission technique. Excitation of dark-adapted leaf segments at 0 degrees C with different number of single turn-over flashes induced the appearance of complex TL glow curves. The mathematical analysis of these curves showed the existence of four TL components: B1-band (temperature maximum, t(max), at 24 degrees C, originating from S3QB - recombination), B2-band (tmax at 35 degrees C, from S2QB -), AG-band (tmax at 46 degrees C) and C-band (tmax at 55 degrees C, from TyrD +QA -). Their contributions to the total TL signal were different depending on the number of flashes given. AG-band seems to reflect a special electron transfer from some unknown stroma donor to PS II. Q-band (tmax at 19 degrees C), originating from S2QA - recombination, was recorded after flashing samples incubated in the presence of DCMU. The recombination halftimes (t1/2) at 20 degrees C of S2QA -, S3QB -, S2QB - and TyrD +QA - were, respectively, 0.8 s, 48 s, 74 s and about 1 h. A sharp AG-band (tmax at 50 degrees C and t1/2 of 210 s) could be also observed after illumination of leaves with far-red light and after a dark incubation period of whole plants. Incubation of leaf segments with 0.5 M NaCl abolished the inductions of AG-band by darkness and far-red illumination, significantly decreased Q-band intensity, whereas induced a strong increase in C-band intensity. The possible inhibition of S2/S3 formation and quinone oxidation by saline stress are discussed.
16050194	The 13C turnover rates of the liver and thoracic pectoral muscle of growing broilers were determined by feeding diets with varying 13C content. Male chicks (1-d-old) were subjected to treatments based on free choice of 5 different mixes of energy and protein sources from plants with C3 and C4 photosynthetic pathways that had differing 13C content. Rice bran (R) and soybean meal (S) were the C3 sources, while maize (C) and maize gluten meal (G) were the C4 sources. Choices were R + S, C + G, R + G, C + S or R + C + G + S. The 6th treatment was a complete feed (CF) that was similar to a commercial broiler feed. The isotopic composition of the birds' tissues was representative of the isotopic composition of the diets. The assimilation was faster for C3, in both liver and muscle, than for C4 diets, and give the delta per mil difference between the diet and tissues. The liver is the most active metabolic tissue and gave more rapid isotope turnover than in muscle.
16052708	Pencycuron is a non-systemic protective fungicide for controlling sheath blight of rice. However, information on the fate of pencycuron in rice plant is lacking. The degradation of pencycuron in waterlogged tropic rice field was investigated. Pencycuron was applied at recommended field dose (187.5 g a.i./ha) and double recommended dose to cropped plots for three consecutive years. Pencycuron was rapidly degraded in rice plant at all doses of pencycuron application with first order half-lives of 1.57 approximately 2.77 d. The study revealed that pencycuron is safe from the human and environmental contamination point of view.
16052713	Three yearling lambs with a rumen cannula were used to investigate the effects of supplementation with an urea-minerals lick block (ULB) on the kinetics of ruminal fibre digestion, nutrient digestibility and nitrogen (N) utilization of rice straw (RS), ammonia bicarbonate (AB)treated RS (ABRS) and hay prepared from natural pasture. The digestibility of dry matter and organic matter of RS increased by 13.1% and 12.7% (P<0.05) when the diet was supplemented with ULB, and approached to that of ABRS, indicating that the effect of ULB on digestibility of RS is similar to that of AB treatment. The digestibility of ABRS was slightly improved by the ULB feeding. Nitrogen retention was highest in lambs fed on ABRS alone, followed by hay with ULB, and was lowest in animals fed on RS with ULB. However, both the amount and proportion of N retention to N intake were enhanced by ULB supplementation to lambs fed on hay. The proportion of N retained to N digested decreased due to ULB supplementation to lambs fed on RS or ABRS. Supplementing ULB did not greatly influence the rumen degradation of either dry matter or crude protein in each of the three diets. RS and hay had similar values in the potential extent of digestion (PED) and digestion rate of PED (kd) of fibrous materials, but the discrete lag time for RS was lower than that for hay. The AB treatment significantly increased the PED (P<0.05) and kd (P<0.05) of RS. Neither the PED nor kd for RS and ABRS was influenced by ULB supplementation, but the kd for hay significantly increased due to ULB. The lag time for hay was also shortened by the ULB feeding. The ULB improved the digestion of fibre in the rumen of lambs fed on low quality roughage. It is inferred that while ULB is effective in increasing nutrient digestibility of low quality roughages by improving ruminal fibre digestion. A synchronized supply of N and energy to rumen microbes should be considered to improve the efficiency of N utilization when the basal diet is ammoniated straw.
16052715	A rice pse(t) (premature senescence, tentatively) mutant line, was isolated from 4,500 independent T-DNA inserted transgenic lines. The symptoms of premature senescence appeared more severely than those of the control plants (Zhonghua 11, japonica) at the last development stage. To characterize the mutant and provide basic information on the candidate genes by mapping to a physical region of 220-kb, experiments were carried out in two phytotrons under controlled temperature of 24 degrees C and 28 degrees C, respectively. The content of chlorophyll, soluble protein and MDA (malondialdehyde), net photosynthesis, the antioxidant enzyme activities of SOD (superoxide dismuase) (EC 1.15.1.1) and POD (peroxidase) (EC 1.11.1.7) and the peptidase activities of leaves were measured from top to bottom according to the leaf positions at the flowering stage. Compared with the control plant, the mutant showed the following characteristics: (1) Higher net photosynthesis rate (P(n)) appeared in the 1st and 2nd leaves, contents of chlorophyll and soluble protein were also higher in the 1st leaf; (2) The activities of SOD, POD and peptidase were higher according to the leaf position from top to bottom; (3) The symptom of premature senescence was accelerated in the mutant at 28 degrees C treatment. The MDA content and the SOD and POD activities between the 24 degrees C and 28 degrees C treatment mutants were not significantly different. Content of chlorophyll and soluble protein of leaves mutant decreased rapidly at 28 degrees C treatment. The results show that pse(t) is sensitive to high temperature. The probable function of PSE(T) is discussed.
16052717	MGTA1, a putative fungal Zn(II)(2)Cys(6) transcriptional activator-encoding gene, was isolated from rice blast pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, which is homologous to CLTA1 from Colletotrichum lindemuthianum with 51% identity at protein level. MGTA1 cassette contains a 2370 bp open reading frame, consisting of 6 exons, coding a 790 amino acid peptide. MGTA1 gene exists as a single copy in genomes of 7 strains of M. grisea, and is expressed in tip hyphae, conidia, and mature appressoria of strain Guy11.
16053266	Nutritional deprivation of proteins decreases the protein kinase C (PKC) activity in rat lung. The activity of (PKC) is influenced by lipid metabolism. Changes in PKC activity may influence phosphorylation of its substrate proteins in the tissues. Therefore, alterations in phospholipid metabolism and PKC mediated protein phosphorylation in dietary protein deficiency in rat lung were envisaged. The study was conducted on rats fed on three different types of diet viz., casein (20% protein), deficient (4% protein, rice flour as source of protein) and supplemented (deficient diet supplemented with L-lysine and DL-threoning). Feeding of protein deficient diet caused reduction in incorporation of [3H] myo-inositol in the total phosphoinositides in lungs and an increase in total inositol phosphate pool. There was a significant reduction in the contents and turnover rate of phosphatidyl inositol and phosphatidyl inositol monophosphate. Supplementation of diet with L-lysine and DL-threonine had a reversing effect on total pool of phosphoinositides and, the metabolism of phosphatidyl inositol bisphosphate and phosphatidyl inositol. In phosphatidyl choline metabolism, the dietary protein deficiency led to a decrease in incorporation of [14C-methyl] choline-chloride in total phospholipids. In contrast, its incorporation increased in phosphatidyl choline pool. The contents of phosphatidyl choline and residue, incorporation of [14C-methyl] choline-chloride in them and their turnover rate also increased. Supplementation of diet had a reversal effect on most of these parameters. Phosphorylation of proteins of 84, 47, 35 and 16 kDa was identified to be mediated by PKC. In dietary protein deficiency, phosphorylation of all these proteins, except that of 47 kDa, increased. Supplementation of diet reversed the pattern except that of 84 kDa. The findings suggest that changes in phospholipid metabolism in dietary protein deficiency may effect the activity of PKC thereby influencing the phosphorylation of its substrate proteins and hence associated functions that may lead to pathophysiology of lung.
16053710	Ca(2+)/calmodulin transduction pathways have been implicated in mediating stress response and tolerance in plants. Here, three genes encoding calmodulin (Cam) members of the EF-hand family of Ca(2+)-binding proteins were identified from Oryza sativa L. databases. Complementary DNA for each of the calmodulin genes, OsCam1, OsCam2, and OsCam3 were sequenced. OsCam1 and OsCam2 encode a conventional 148-amino acid calmodulin protein that contains four characteristic Ca(2+)-binding motifs. OsCam3 encode a similar protein with a 38-amino-acid extension containing a putative prenylation site (CVIL) at the carboxyl terminus. RT-PCR showed that each of the genes is expressed in leaves and roots of 2-week old rice seedlings. By RNA gel blot analysis, OsCam1 mRNA levels strongly increased in response to NaCl, mannitol and wounding treatments. In contrast, OsCam2 mRNA levels were relatively unchanged under all conditions investigated. NaCl treatment and wounding also increased the OsCam3 mRNA level, but in a more transient manner. Our results indicate that although the expression of genes encoding different calmodulin isoforms is ubiquitous, they are differentially regulated by various stress signals. In addition, we have demonstrated that the calcium-channel blocker lanthanum chloride inhibited the induction of OsCam1 gene expression by both NaCl and mannitol treatments. These results suggest that osmotic stressinduced expression of OsCam1 gene requires the [Ca(2+)]cyt elevation that is known to occur in response to these stimuli.
16054328	Production of chlamydospores is one of the phenotypic features used to differentiate Candida albicans and Candida dubliniensis. C. albicans produces few chlamydospores on only cornmeal/rice-Tween agar at room temperature, whereas C. dubliniensis produces abundant chlamydospores at this temperature both on cornmeal agar and some other commonly used media. We tried to determine whether the room temperature is the main factor that induces chlamydospore production of C. dubliniensis, regardless of the medium used. For this purpose, 100 C. albicans and 24 C. dubliniensis isolates were tested for chlamydospore production at room temperature and at 37 degrees C on some routinely used media, including eosin-methylene blue agar (EMB), nutrient agar (NA), nutrient broth (NB), and also on an investigational medium, phenol red agar (PR). At 37 degrees C, none of the isolates produced chlamydospores on any of the tested media. At 26 degrees C, all C. dubliniensis isolates produced abundant chlamydospores and pseudohyphae after 24-48 h on all tested media. At this incubation temperature, all C. albicans isolates failed to produce chlamydospores and pseudohyphae on EMB, NA, and NB, whereas 2 of the C. albicans isolates produced a few chlamydospores on PR. We also observed that all C. dubliniensis isolates tested on EMB and PR produced rough colonies with a hyphal fringe around the colonies, whereas none of the C. albicans isolates showed this property. In conclusion, incubation at 26 degrees C may play the key role for production of abundant chlamydospores and pseudohyphae by C. dubliniensis. Comprehensive molecular studies are needed to clarify the genetic basis of this observation. Using EMB and PR may be an inexpensive, a time-saving, and a simple way of presumptive identification of C. dubliniensis based on chlamydospore formation and colony morphology.
16054917	Effect of addition of municipal solid waste compost (MSWC) on chromium (Cr) content of submerged rice paddies was studied. Experiments were conducted during the three consecutive wet seasons from 1997 to 1999 on rice grown under submergence, at the Experimental Farm of Calcutta University, India. A sequential extraction method was used to determine the various chromium fractions in MSWC and cow dung manure (CDM). Chromium was significantly bound to the organic matter and Fe and Mn oxides in MSWC and CDM. Chromium content in rice straw was higher than in rice grain. Chromium bound with organic matter in MSWC best correlated with straw Cr (r=0.99**) followed by Fe and Mn oxides (r=0.97*) and water soluble as well as exchangeable fractions (r=0.96*). The water soluble and the exchangeable fractions in MSWC best correlated with grain Cr (r=0.98*). The Cr content of rice grain had the highest correlation with water soluble and exchangeable Cr (r=0.99**) while the straw Cr best correlated with the Fe and Mn oxides (r=0.98*). Both the carbonate bound and residual fractions in MSWC and CDM did not significantly correlate with rice straw and grain Cr. MSWC would be a valuable resource for agriculture if it can be used safely, but long-term use may require the cessation of the dumping by the leather tanneries and other major contributors of pollutants.
16055690	Previously, in an effort to better understand the male contribution to fertilization, we completed a maize (Zea mays) sperm expressed sequence tag project. Here, we used this resource to identify promoters that would direct gene expression in sperm cells. We used reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to identify probable sperm-specific transcripts in maize and then identified their best sequence matches in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome. We tested five different Arabidopsis promoters for cell specificity, using an enhanced green fluorescent protein reporter gene. In pollen, the AtGEX1 (At5g55490) promoter is active in the sperm cells and not in the progenitor generative cell or in the vegetative cell, but it is also active in ovules, roots, and guard cells. The AtGEX2 (At5g49150) promoter is active only in the sperm cells and in the progenitor generative cell, but not in the vegetative cell or in other tissues. A third promoter, AtVEX1 (At5g62850) [corrected] was active in the vegetative cell during the later stages of pollen development; the other promoters tested (At1g66770 and At1g73350) did not function in pollen. Comparisons among GEX1 and GEX2 homologs from maize, rice (Oryza sativa), Arabidopsis, and poplar (Populus trichocarpa) revealed a core binding site for Dof transcription factors. The AtGEX1 and AtGEX2 promoters will be useful for manipulating gene expression in sperm cells, for localization and functional analyses of sperm proteins, and for imaging of sperm dynamics as they are transported in the pollen tube to the embryo sac.
16057904
16061509	Ethanol production by anoxic, excised, 7-10 mm tips of rice coleoptiles was manipulated using a range of exogenous glucose concentrations. Such a dose-response curve enabled good estimates at which level of ethanol production (and hence by inference ATP production), injury commenced and also allowed assessments of energy requirements for maintenance in anoxia. Rates of net uptake or loss of K+ and P by these excised coleoptile tips were related to rates of ethanol production (r2 of 0.59 and 0.68, respectively). At 72 h anoxia, ATP levels in excised tips were similar at 0, 2.5, and 50 mol m(-3) exogenous glucose, despite large differences in the inferred rates of ATP production. At 96 h anoxia, tips without exogenous glucose had low ATP concentrations; these may be the cause or the consequence of cell injury. In tips without glucose, injury was indicated by losses of K+ and Cl- between 72-96 h anoxia, and during the first hour after re-aeration, while later than 1 h after re-aeration, rates of net uptake were substantially lower than for re-aerated tips previously in anoxia with exogenous glucose. Between 96 h and 124 h anoxia, ion losses from tips without exogenous glucose increased while recovery of net uptake after re-aeration was very sluggish and incomplete. The energy requirement for maintenance of health and survival of anoxic coleoptile tips, expressed on a fresh weight basis, was lower than for three other anoxia-tolerant plant tissues/cells, studied previously. However, the energy requirement on a protein basis was assessed at 1.4 micromol ATP mg(-1) protein h(-1) and this value is 2.6-5.4-fold higher than for the other plant tissues/cells. Yet, this requirement was still only 58-88% of the published values for aerated tissues. The reason for this relatively high ATP requirement per unit protein in anoxic rice coleoptiles remains to be elucidated.
1606866	The selenium content of 518 specimens of rice, wheat, maize, soybean and highland barley growing both in Keshan disease area and other places in Yunnan Province, was determined and it was found that the average selenium content of the grains in the Keshan disease area was lower than that in the other places. The selenium content of rice especially was much lower than that of wheat and soybean. The relationship of Keshan disease to the low selenium content of grains, especially rice, the most eaten grain by people in the disease area, seemed clearly established in Yunnan province as well.
16075205	Drought resistance of rice is a complex trait and is mainly determined by mechanisms of drought avoidance and drought tolerance. The present study was conducted to characterize the genetic basis of drought resistance at reproductive stage in field by analyzing the QTLs for drought response index (DRI, normalized by potential yield and flowering time), relative yield, relative spikelet fertility, and four traits of plant water status and their relationships with root traits using a recombinant inbred population derived from a cross between an indica rice and upland rice. A total of 39 QTLs for these traits were detected with individual QTL explained 5.1-32.1% of phenotypic variation. Only two QTLs for plant water status were commonly detected in two environments, suggesting different mechanisms might exist in two types of soil conditions. DRI has no correlation with potential yield and flowering time under control, suggesting that it can be used as a good drought resistance index in field conditions. The co-location of QTLs for canopy temperature and delaying in flowering time suggested a usefulness of these two traits as indexes in drought resistance screening. Correlation and QTL congruence between root traits and putative drought tolerance traits revealed that drought avoidance (via thick and deep root traits) was the main genetic basis of drought resistance in sandy soil condition, while drought tolerance may play more role in the genetic basis of drought resistance in paddy soil condition. Therefore, both drought mechanisms and soil textures must be considered in the improvement of drought resistance at reproductive stage in rice.
16076128	The sorption behavior of diuron, imidacloprid, and thiacloprid was investigated using 22 soils collected in triplicate from temperate environments in Australia and tropical environments in Australia and the Philippines. Within the temperate environment in Australia, the soils were selected from a range of land uses. The average KOC values (L/kg) for imidacloprid were 326, 322, and 336; for thiacloprid, the values were 915, 743, and 842; and for diuron, the values were 579, 536, and 618 for the Ord (tropical), Mt. Lofty (temperate), and Philippines (tropical) soils, respectively. For all soils, the sorption coefficients decreased in the following order: thiacloprid > diuron > imidacloprid. There were no significant differences in sorption behavior between the tropical soils from the Philippines and the temperate soils from Australia. Sorption was also not significantly related with soil characteristics, namely, organic carbon (OC) content, clay content, and pH, for any of the three chemicals studied. When the data were sorted into separate land uses, the sorption of all three chemicals was highly correlated (P < 0.001) with OC for the rice soils from the Philippines. Sorption coefficients for all three chemicals were highly correlated with OC in temperate, native soils only when one extreme value was removed. The relationships between sorption of all three chemicals and OC in temperate, pasture soils were best described by a polynomial. Sorption coefficients for imidacloprid and thiacloprid determined in the temperate pasture soils remained fairly consistent as the OC content increased from 3.3 to 5.3%, indicating that, although the total OC in the pasture soils was increasing, the component of OC involved with sorption of these two compounds may have been remaining constant. This study demonstrated that the origin of the soils (i.e., temperate vs tropical) had no significant effect on the sorption behavior, but in some cases, land use significantly affected the sorption behavior of the three pesticides studied. The impact of land use on the nature of soil OC will be further investigated by NMR analysis.
16076757	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and dibenzofurans (PCDFs) are persistent environmental pollutants shown to adversely interact with several functions of the endocrine system. In 1978-1979, over 2000 Taiwanese people ingested rice oil accidentally contaminated with PCBs and PCDFs. This is one of the major toxic exposure episodes that occurred globally and was later called Yucheng (oil disease in Chinese). The children born to exposed Yucheng women were therefore exposed in utero to high doses of PCBs/PCDFs. In 1995, 60 Yucheng and 61 control boys participated in physical examination, and serum hormones were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). Age, body weight, body height, Tanner status, testicular size, serum luteinizing hormone (LH), prolactin (PRL), thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were not statistically different between Yucheng and control boys in the subgroups of before and at the age of puberty. However, the serum estradiol (E2) levels were significant higher in Yucheng boys at the age of puberty. Yucheng and control boys were further divided into two subgroups, those before (age <13 yr) and those at the age of puberty (age > or = 13 yr). There was a decrease of serum testosterone (TT) levels and increase of serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels in Yucheng boys at the age of puberty as compared with controls. There was a significant decrease of the square root of TT/E2 and TT/FSH; however, the square root of E2/FSH was increased in Yucheng boys at the age of puberty as compared with controls. Data indicated that prenatal exposure to PCBs and PCDFs may have implications for boys' sex hormone homeostasis at puberty. Further studies are needed to identify the congeners of PCBs/PCDFs responsible for disruption of the endocrine system, as well as the mechanisms of such disruption.
16077027	RNA silencing-mediated small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) have diverse natural roles, ranging from regulation of gene expression and heterochromatin formation to genome defense against transposons and viruses. Unlike miRNAs, endogenous siRNAs are generally not conserved between species; consequently, their identification requires experimental approaches. Thus far, endogenous siRNAs have not been reported from rice, which is a model species for monocotyledonous plants. We identified a large set of putative endogenous siRNAs from root, shoot and inflorescence small RNA cDNA libraries of rice. Most of these siRNAs are from intergenic regions, although a substantial proportion (22%) originates from the introns and exons of protein-coding genes. Northern and RT-PCR analysis revealed that the expression of some of the siRNAs is tissue specific or developmental stage specific. A total of 25 transposons and 21 protein-coding genes were predicted to be cis-targets of some of the siRNAs. Based on sequence homology, we also predicted 111 putative trans-targets for 44 of the siRNAs. Interestingly, approximately 46% of the predicted trans-targets are transposable elements, which suggests that endogenous siRNAs may play an important role in the suppression of transposon proliferation. Using RNA ligase-mediated-5' rapid amplification of cDNA end assays, we validated three of the predicted targets and provided evidence for both cis- and trans-silencing of target genes by siRNAs-guided mRNA cleavage.
16077465	Based on the author's study of anthropometry, energy expenditure and food consumption in four (pre-harvest, harvest, post-harvest and rainy) seasons among rain-fed rice growing farmers in Northeast Thailand, this article clarifies and discusses human adaptive (or maladaptive) strategies to seasonal climatic change. Total energy expenditure fluctuated markedly among the four seasons, but total energy intake did to a negligible extent. Change in body weight significantly differed between pre-harvest and post-harvest seasons, with a magnitude of 1.3 kg, or 2.3%, in males and 2.5 kg, or 4.3%, in females. Respiratory quotient (RQ) was the lowest in the post-harvest season when fat mass increased. These results demonstrated that physiological adaptation, through change in RQ in particular, to change in energy balance occurred in relatively short periods, and thus behavioral adaptation by means of changes in energy intake was observed not in specific seasons but in a year. The nutritional-ecological adaptive patterns of the rain-fed rice farmers were compared with those of various subsistence populations based on physical activity levels.
16078015	With an aim to clone the sorghum fertility restorer gene Rf1, a high-resolution genetic and physical map of the locus was constructed. The Rf1 locus was resolved to a 32-kb region spanning four open reading frames: a plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase, a cyclin D-1, an unknown protein, and a pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR13) gene family member. An approximately 19-kb region spanning the cyclin D-1 and unknown protein genes was completely conserved between sterile and fertile plants as was the sequence spanning the coding region of the Ca(2+)-ATPase. In contrast, 19 sequence polymorphisms were located in an approximately 7-kb region spanning PPR13, and all markers cosegregated with the fertility restoration phenotype. PPR13 was predicted to encode a mitochondrial-targeted protein containing a single exon with 14 PPR repeats, and the protein is classified as an E-type PPR subfamily member. To permit sequence-based comparison of the sorghum and rice genomes in the Rf1 region, 0.53 Mb of sorghum chromosome 8 was sequenced and compared to the colinear region of rice chromosome 12. Genome comparison revealed a mosaic pattern of colinearity with an approximately 275-kb gene-poor region with little gene conservation and an adjacent, approximately 245-kb gene-rice region that is more highly conserved between rice and sorghum. Despite being located in a region of high gene conservation, sorghum PPR13 was not located in a colinear position on rice chromosome 12. The present results suggest that sorghum PPR13 represents a potential candidate for the sorghum Rf1 gene, and its presence in the sorghum genome indicates a single gene transposition event subsequent to the divergence of rice and sorghum ancestors.
16078185	Using proteomic analysis, an investigation aimed at a better understanding of the molecular adaptation mechanisms of cold stress was carried out in rice (Oryza sativa). The seedlings were exposed to a progressively low temperature stress treatment from normal temperature to 15, 10, and 5 degrees C. Proteins were extracted from the leaves collected from both control and stressed seedlings. By fractionation, approximately 1700 protein spots were separated and visualized on CBB-stained 2-D gels. Sixty protein spots were found to be up-regulated in responding to the progressively low temperature stress and displayed different dynamic patterns. As an initial work, 41 of these proteins were identified using MALDI-TOF MS or ESI/MS/MS. These cold responsive proteins, besides two proteins of unknown function, include four factors of protein biosynthesis, four molecular chaperones, two proteases, and eight enzymes involved in biosynthesis of cell wall components, seven antioxidative/detoxifying enzymes, and proteins linked to energy pathway, as well as a protein involved in signal transduction. The functional proteomes illuminate the facts, at least in plant cell, that protein quality control mediated by chaperones and proteases and enhancement of cell wall components play important roles in tolerance to cold stress. Using TargetP program, the subcellular localization of the identified proteins was analyzed. Proteins (43.9%) were predicted to be located in the chloroplasts, implying that chloroplast proteome is virtually subjective to cold stress. The physiological implications, revealed from the experimental data, are discussed in context of a complex metabolic network in plant cells responsive to cold stress.
1607863	No information exists on the organization and mechanisms of expression of the genome of rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV), a member of the tenuivirus group, but here we describe the first steps in its characterization. RHBV contains four ssRNA and three dsRNA species, the sizes of which were estimated by native and denaturing gel electrophoresis. Hybridization analyses using 32P-labelled riboprobes of viral and viral complementary polarities showed that unequal amounts of the two polarities of at least the smallest RNA are present in the virion, and indicated that the dsRNA species contain the same information as the ssRNA species of corresponding size. Total RHBV RNA directs the synthesis of two major proteins of 23K and 21K in vitro. RNA3 directs the synthesis of a 23K protein designated NS3, and RNA4 of a 21K protein designated NS4. The NS4 protein corresponds to the non-structural protein that accumulates in RHBV-infected rice tissue. The nuclecocapsid protein is not translated from either total RHBV RNA or any individual RHBV RNA in vitro.
16078738	Sequence-based gene isolation has been a practical approach for plant resistance gene cloning. In this study, RS13, a cloned rice sequence with the NBS (nucleotide-binding site) domain of resistance genes, was used as a probe to screen a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library of rice variety IR64,and four positive clones were obtained. Of them the clone 14E19 covered the other three clones and was sequenced through a shotgun approach. The whole sequence of the insert fragment of 14E19 was assembled into approximately 73 kb in length. Genes on the whole assembled sequence were predicted,and four genes encoding NBS and LRR (leucine-rich repeat) domains were found, named as NL-A, B, C and D respectively. For further analysis, another longer BAC clone,106P13, covering 14E19 on the same chromosome position was identified from a BAC library of IRBB56 which had the same genome background with IR64. Ten NL-homologous copies were discovered on the sequence of the BAC clone 106P13, and four copies were identical with those on 14E19. The similar homologous sequences were also found in the genomic sequences of Nipponbare,93-11 and Guangluai4. However, NL sequences were less homologous with the known NBS-LRR resistance genes. This result indicated that NL was a new NBS-LRR gene family and was composed of ten members at least. RT-PCR and cDNA screening displayed that NL-B expressed in a bacterial blight-resistant rice variety IRBB4, indicating the gene was possibly involved in resistance reactions.
16078739	A recombinant inbred lines (RILs) population derived from a cross between Zhenshan97B and Miyang46 was used for detecting QTLs with additive effects and additive-by-additive epistasis for rice mesocotyl length. A linkage map consisting of 207 DNA markers,distributing on the 12 chromosomes of rice,was employed for QTL mapping by using software QTL Mapper 1.6 of mixed linear model. Rice mesocotyl length under germination conditions with 4 different FeSO4 concentrations (0, 1.79, 7.16, 14.32 mmol/L) was measured 7 days after planting. A total of 6 QTLs with significant additive effects on chromosome 1, 5 and 9, with variance explained of 3.5%-11.4%, eleven QTLs with significant additive x additive epistatic effects on chromosome 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8 were detected, with variance explained of 4.5%-8.1%. In addition, one QTL for environmental interaction (Fe2+ -concentrations) was detected.
16078741	Using two-step HMM (hidden markov model) scan strategy,eight 14-3-3-like proteins were identified by searching the Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica protein database. From them four genes were newly detected in this study. We confined the genes expressing in Nipponbare by EST search. Expression analysis also showed each gene expressed diversely within any individual,this tends suggested specific function of particular gene. Alignment of amino acid sequences suggested that there could be isoform function of the specific residues. The analyses of gene structure and chromosome location indicated that rice genome contains both epsilon and no-epsilon forms of 14-3-3 proteins. In addition,we analyzed the evolution of the rice 14-3-3 protein family.
16078874	This article relates some personal history and influences leading to becoming a plant pathologist. Next a summary of my research experiences on rice and barley diseases and the effect of regulatory changes on efforts to manage rice diseases in California. I conclude with an invitation to consider the opportunities and obligations of plant pathologists to return to the field and for individual introspection regarding attitudes and behavior toward colleagues and factors affecting our profession.
16079511	The intake of pre-germinated brown rice (PR) instead of white rice (WR) ameliorates the hyperglycemia. To clarify the mechanism(s) to decrease the post-prandial blood glucose concentration, the effect of water-soluble/oil-soluble fraction-depleted PR bran (termed as "DB"; which is destarched and defatted PR bran) on post-prandial blood glucose was compared with that of full-fat PR bran (PB) or WR. The test diets, WR diet, PB diet and DB diet which are containing identical amount of available carbohydrate (1.5 g) were fed to Wistar strain rats. Post-prandial blood glucose concentration and incremental area under the curve (IAUC) for DB diet were lower than those for WR diet, and there was no difference between the DB diet and PB diet. Changes in plasma insulin concentration and the IAUC obtained also revealed the same tendency as those observed in blood glucose concentration. These results indicate that the blood glucose-lowering effect of PB diet may be derived from the properties of PB involving substantially higher content of dietary fiber than WR, and that the potential benefit of intake of PR instead of WR in the prevention of diabetic vascular complications.
16080734	The mechanism for the formation of hexamethylenetetraamine predicts the formation of aminomethanol from the addition of ammonia to formaldehyde. This molecule subsequently undergoes unimolecular decomposition to form methanimine and water. Aminomethanol is the predicted precursor to interstellar glycine, and is therefore of great interest for laboratory spectroscopic study, which would serve as the basis for observational searches. The height of the water loss barrier is therefore useful in the determination of an appropriate experimental approach for spectroscopic characterization of aminomethanol. We have determined the height of this barrier to be 55 kcalmol at ambient temperatures. In addition, we have determined the infinite-pressure Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus unimolecular decomposition rate to be <10(-25) s(-1) at 300 K, indicating gas-phase kinetic stability for typical laboratory and hot core temperatures. Therefore, spectroscopic characterization of and observational searches for this molecule should be straightforward provided an efficient formation mechanism can be found.
16081136	Pot soil experiments showed that copper (Cu) is highly toxic to rice. Rice grain yields decreased exponentially and significantly with the increase of soil Cu levels. Rice grain yield was reduced about 10% by soil Cu level of 100 mg kg(-1), about 50% by soil Cu level of 300-500 mg kg(-1) and about 90% by soil Cu concentration of 1,000 mg kg(-1). Root was more sensitive to soil Cu toxicity than other parts of rice plant at relatively lower soil Cu levels (less than 300-500 mg kg(-1)), but the growth of whole rice plant was severely inhibited at high soil Cu levels (300-500 mg kg(-1) or above). Cu concentrations in rice grain increased with soil Cu levels below 150-200 mg kg(-1), but decreased with soil Cu levels above 150-200 mg kg(-1), with peak Cu concentration at soil Cu level of 150-20 mg kg(-1). Cu was not distributed evenly in different parts of rice grain. Cu concentration in cortex (embryo) was more than 2-fold that in chaff and polished rice. More than 60% of the Cu in grain was accumulated in polished rice, about 24% in cortex (embryo), and about 12% in chaff. So, about 1/3 of the Cu in rice grain was eliminated after grain processing (chaff, cortex and embryo was removed).
16081169	Some SERK-family receptor-like protein kinase genes have been shown to confer embryonic competence to cells. In this study, we isolated two novel rice genes, OsSERK1 and OsSERK2, belonging to the SERK-family. OsSERK2 showed constitutive expression. The OsSERK1 promoter showed reporter gene activities in some specific tissues in a germinating seed, leaf and root, but not in a developing embryo. This promoter activity suggests that OsSERK1 may have roles in non-embryonic tissues rather than in the embryo.
16082165	The roles of photoperiod, melatonin, and the pineal gland in regulating the magnitude of compensatory gonadal hypertrophy (CGH) and other reproductive and non-reproductive organ growth during post-weaning development were examined in the marsh rice rat Oryzomys palustris. Juvenile rice rats of both sexes were left gonadally intact (control group) or unilaterally castrated (ULC) and housed on 12L:12D, 14L:10D, or 16L:8D. Within a photoperiod (14L:10D and 16L:8D, but not 12L:12D), growth of the remaining testis, but not the remaining ovary, as well as several additional organs in both sexes were significantly affected, suggesting that the compensatory hypertrophy of the testis is photoperiod-dependent. There was no effect of testis asymmetry on CGH as ULC of either testis in rice rats housed on 14L:10D resulted in a comparable increase of CGH. Melatonin implants in rice rats maintained on 16L:8D had little to no effect (CGH included) on most parameters examined. Both melatonin implants and pinealectomy (separate experiments) in rice rats transferred to 12L:12D prevented short photoperiod-induced effects on CGH, the growth of the reproductive organs and the Harderian glands. Evening melatonin injections had a significant inhibitory effect on the growth of the remaining testis (no CGH was observed) and all other parameters measured. Lastly, ULC did not alter the percentage of males which successfully mated compared to intact animals. Taken together, these data suggest that photoperiod, melatonin, and the pineal gland can affect and regulate reproductive (e.g., CGH in some cases) and non-reproductive growth during postnatal development in the marsh rice rat.
16082952	Rice is a target food for arsenic speciation based analyses because of its relatively high arsenic concentration and per capita consumption rates. Improved speciation data for rice can be helpful in estimating inorganic arsenic exposures in the U.S. and in endemic populations. The inorganic arsenic exposure for cooked rice should include both the arsenic in raw rice plus the arsenic absorbed from the water used to prepare it. The amount of arsenic absorbed from water by rice during preparation was assessed using five different types of rice cooked in both contaminated drinking water and arsenic-free reagent water. The rice samples were extracted using trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) and speciated using IC-ICP-MS. The TFA procedure was able to extract 84-104% of the arsenic (As) from the five different cooked rice samples. Chromatographic recoveries ranged from 99% to 116%. The dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) and inorganic arsenic concentration ranged from 22 to 270 ng of As/g of rice and from 31 to 108 ng of As/g of rice, respectively, for samples cooked in reagent water. The overall recoveries, which relate the sum of the chromatographic species back to the total digested concentration, ranged from 89% to 117%. The absorption of arsenic by rice from the total volume of water [1:1 to 4:1 (water:rice)] used in cooking was between 89% and 105% for two different contaminated drinking water samples. A comparison of the TFA extraction to an enzymatic extraction was made using the five rice samples and NIST 1568a rice flour. The two extraction procedures produced good agreement for inorganic arsenic, DMA, and the overall recovery. Through the use of IC-ESI-MS/ MS with a parent ion of m/z 153 and fragment ions of m/z 138, 123, and 105, the structure dimethylthioarsinic acid was tentatively identified in two of the rice samples using the enzymatic extraction.
16083054	A prospective study was carried out to see the prevalence of B. hominis in food handlers in Dammam, Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. A total of 17073 food handlers were examined, 8.50% persons were positive for this organism in their stool. In 2.4% of the food handlers, B. hominis was the only parasite, whereas in 1.9% and 4.2% of the cases, this organism was found in association with pathogenic and non pathogenic parasites respectively. We could find the correlation between the dietary habits and the presence of organism in stool. In 19.9% of the positive food handlers in whom rice was the predominant food the organism was seen, when compared to 80.1% of the predominantly wheat eaters.
16083112	Wetland systems in headstream watersheds are important to control the nonpoint source pollutant phosphorus. Experiments were conducted using intact sediment-water columns obtained from the multipond system in Liuchahe watershed of Chaohu Lake to determine its capacity to retain P. It was found that pond sediments had strong P retention ability. For the Hill pond, Village pond and Rice pond, their retention coefficient(A) were 288.3, 279.2 and 260.8 L/m2, respectively. The equilibrium P concentration (EPCw) were 0.016, 0.028 and 0.018 mg/L, respectively. The Hill pond indicated the highest P retention ability. P retained in the pond sediments indicated high stable degree. P removal from the overlying water column into the pond sediments followed a first-order kinetic model. Under the experimental hydrological conditions, the retention time had a positive correlation with the P loading. The multipond system could provide enough retention time to retain P in drainage runoffs. At the P levels evaluated, the sediments of the multipond system are effective sinks to retain P from nonpoint source runoffs.
16084367	The filtrate obtained by interacting a known amount of rice husk with deionised, Milli-Q water was assessed as a carbon source and nutrient medium for the growth of Desulfotomaculum nigrificans, a typical sulfate-reducing bacterium. The filtrate contained essential growth constituents such as magnesium, potassium, phosphorous apart from calcium, sodium, chloride and sulfate ions. Based on the 1H and 13C NMR characterization studies, the organic composition of the components dissolved from the rice husk, was found to be: (i) 66% lignocellulosic material, (ii) 24% xylose+arabinose and (iii) 10% galactose. The growth studies indicated a 15-fold increase in the bacterial cell number in about 20 days. Nearly 81% and 66% reduction in sulfate concentration could be achieved in about 28 days, from the solutions containing initial sulfate concentrations of 550 mg/l and 1200 mg/l respectively. In both the cases studied, the iron concentration could be reduced by over 85%.
16084368	A study was undertaken to examine the effect of temperature, moisture and storage time on the accumulation of free fatty acid in the rice bran. Rice bran stored at room temperature showed that most triacylglyceride was hydrolyzed and free fatty acid (FFA) content was raised up to 76% in six months. A two-step acid-catalyzed methanolysis process was employed for the efficient conversion of rice bran oil into fatty acid methyl ester (FAME). The first step was carried out at 60 degrees C. Depending on the initial FFA content of oil, 55-90% FAME content in the reaction product was obtained. More than 98% FFA and less than 35% of TG were reacted in 2 h. The organic phase of the first step reaction product was used as the substrate for a second acid-catalyzed methanolysis at 100 degrees C. By this two-step methanolysis reaction, more than 98% FAME in the product can be obtained in less than 8 h. Distillation of reaction product gave 99.8% FAME (biodiesel) with recovery of more than 96%. The residue contains enriched nutraceuticals such as gamma-oryzanol (16-18%), mixture of phytosterol, tocol and steryl ester (19-21%).
16084551	2-Amino-14,16-dimethyloctadecan-3-ol (2-AOD-3-ol) was isolated from the cytotoxic rice culture extract of a strain of Fusarium avenaceum, which had previously been isolated from Norwegian grain. The structural information was obtained from LC-MS/MS, GC-MS, NMR spectroscopy and high-resolution MS data. The metabolite has a striking similarity to sphinganine, an intermediate in the biosynthesis of the sphingolipids. This similarity is a major feature of the so-called sphingosine analogue toxins; the most studied being the AAL toxins and the fumonisins. 2-AOD-3-ol was found to be cytotoxic to the rat hepatoma cell line H4IIE-W and to the porcine epithelial kidney cell line PK(15) at concentrations (EC(50)) of 16 and 24 microM, respectively. The metabolite has been found in F. avenaceum inoculated wheat that was treated to support ideal conditions for Fusarium growth, demonstrating that the fungus has the potential to produce the metabolite under field conditions, which may occur in Northern Europe.
16085370	Methanotrophic populations have been studied in Newport Bay estuary, Southern California. Environmental clone banks were generated for 16S rRNA genes specific to methanotrophs and for a diagnostic functional gene, pmoA, encoding a conserved subunit of the particulate methane monooxygenase. These clone banks contained sequences specific to types I and II methanotrophs typically found in aquatic environments including freshwater lake and soda lake sediments, aquifers and rice paddies. However, a group of clones that were divergent (93% identity) from known methanotrophic 16S rRNA genes but represented in 16S rRNA gene libraries from other aquatic environments were detected. A group of pmoA sequences divergent (83% identity) from extant methanotrophs and not previously represented in any environmental clone libraries, were also detected. It is concluded that this environment contains significant methanotroph diversity and that some of these may represent novel groups of methanotrophic bacteria.
16085434	Pre-meiotic cellular organisation of rice anthers has a great significance in pollen formation. We have used a combination of confocal laser and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to characterise and differentiate organelles in pre-meiotic rice anthers. Along with the characteristic organelles in the cytoplasm the epidermal cells of the pre-meiotic rice anther are coated on their outer surface by a conspicuous bi-lamellate cuticle. Chloroplasts of the endothecium contain immature grana, thylakoids and also starch granules. These plastids clearly contain photosynthetic pigments as shown by autofluorescence in confocal microscope studies. Both confocal and TEM studies reveal clusters of mitochondria in the middle layer. The tapetum contains electron opaque ribosomes, bundles of mitochondria and plastids. The nuclei of the tapetum occupy a large volume of the cytoplasm indicating the onset of mitotic prophase. Intense Rhodamine 123 staining reveals that a major portion of the structurally indistinguishable organelles that were seen throughout the densely ribosomic cytoplasm of sporogenous cells are mitochondria.
16085936	Auxin transport affects a variety of important growth and developmental processes in plants, including the regulation of shoot and root branching. The asymmetrical localization of auxin influx and efflux carriers within the plasma membrane establishes the auxin gradient and facilitates its transport. REH1, a rice EIR1 (Arabidopsis ethylene insensitive root 1)-like gene, is a putative auxin efflux carrier. Phylogenetic analysis of 32 members of the PIN family, taken from across different species, showed that in terms of evolutionary relationship, OsPIN1 is closer to the PIN1 family than to the PIN2 family. It is, therefore, renamed as OsPIN1 in this study. OsPIN1 was expressed in the vascular tissues and root primordial in a manner similar to AtPIN1. Adventitious root emergence and development were significantly inhibited in the OsPIN1 RNA interference (RNAi) transgenic plants, which was similar to the phenotype of NPA (N-1-naphthylphalamic acid, an auxin-transport inhibitor)-treated wild-type plants. alpha-naphthylacetic acid (alpha-NAA) treatment was able to rescue the mutated phenotypes occurring in the RNAi plants. Overexpression or suppression of the OsPIN1 expression through a transgenic approach resulted in changes of tiller numbers and shoot/root ratio. Taken together, these data suggest that OsPIN1 plays an important role in auxin-dependent adventitious root emergence and tillering.
16087344	The rice sucrose non-fermenting-1 related protein kinase 1 (SnRK1) family consists of three genes, which were named OSK1, OSK24 and OSK35. In order to elucidate the distinct functions of OSK genes, we identified precise regions for their expression by the promoter: GUS expression analyses as well as in situ mRNA localization experiments. At first, we isolated genomic clones corresponding to each member of OSKs in order to obtain the promoter sequences. All OSK genes house 11 exons and 10 introns and the positions of introns within the coding regions are fully conserved in all these genes. Histochemical analyses using OSK promoter: beta-glucronidase (OSKP:GUS) reporter genes showed that expression patterns of OSK1P:GUS and OSK24P:GUS were quite different in the developing caryopsis. The expression of OSK1P:GUS was nearly restricted in the vascular tissues during the caryopsis development. In contrast, the OSK24P:GUS expression was detected in the pericarp at the early stage with a shift to the endosperm as the endosperm cells were formed, and GUS staining was confined to both aleurone layer and endosperm cells around 15 days after flowering, when cell division of cellular endosperm were almost finished. The shifting pattern of the OSK24 expression was correlated with the appearance of starch granules in each tissue. Similar correlation between OSK24 expression and emergence of starch granules was also observed at another temporal sink organ, the basal part of leaf sheath. These results suggest that OSK24 (rice SnRK1b) most probably have a special role in carbohydrate metabolism of the sink organs.
16089032	The molecular evolution of cultivated rice Oryza sativa L. has long been a subject of rice evolutionists. To investigate genetic diversity within and differentiation between the indica and japonica subspecies, 22 accessions of indica and 35 of japonica rice were examined by five microsatellite loci from each chromosome totalling 60 loci. Mean gene diversity value in the indica rice (H=0.678) was 1.18 times larger than in the japonica rice (H=0.574). Taking the sampling effect into consideration, average allele number in the indica rice was 1.40 times higher than that in the japonica rice (14.6 vs 10.4 per variety). Chromosome-based comparisons revealed that nine chromosomes (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10 and 11) harboured higher levels of genetic diversity within the indica rice than the japonica rice. An overall estimate of F(ST) was 0.084-0.158, indicating that the differentiation is moderate and 8.4-15.8% of the total genetic variation resided between the indica and japonica groups. Our chromosome-based comparisons further suggested that the extent of the indica-japonica differentiation varied substantially, ranging from 7.62% in chromosome 3 to 28.72% in chromosome 1. Cluster analyses found that most varieties formed merely two clusters for the indica and japonica varieties, in which two japonica varieties and five indica varieties were included in the counterpart clusters, respectively. The 12 chromosome-based trees further showed that 57 rice varieties cannot be clearly clustered together into either the indica or japonica groups, but displayed relatively different clustering patterns. The results suggest that the process of indica japonica differentiation may have proceeded through an extensive contribution by the alleles of the majority in the rice genome.
16089335	We have developed a personal-computer-based water quality analysis system for river basins. The system estimates potential N outflow by model and calculates actual N outflow from monitoring data. For the former it uses the potential load factor method to estimate annual nitrogen load from various sources and runoff potential from each area of land in a basin. For the latter it analyzes water quality monitoring data in relation to meteorological data. We used the system to analyze N outflow in basins around Lake Kasumigaura and the Yahagi River in central Honshu, Japan. The land around Lake Kasumigaura is rather flat, and about 25% is periodically flooded for rice and lotus cultivation. The land around the Yahagi River is mountainous, and much less land is flooded. In the Yahagi River basin the actual N outflow agreed closely with the potential. However, the actual N outflow in the basin around Lake Kasumigaura was much less than the potential, suggesting that a large part of the N load is denitrified in flooded soils. This further indicates that a sequence of different land uses including flooded rice fields is an important factor determining N outflow in basins in Japan. On the basis of the above analyses, we incorporated a denitrification model into the system that enables us to estimate N balance in a designated basin; this system may be helpful in the formulation of scenarios of land use and soil management for improving water quality.
1609010	Ankle injuries are the most frequent cause of physician evaluation in a sports-oriented environment. The lateral ligaments are most commonly injured. With a detailed history, physical and radiographic examination to avoid missing underlying pathology, the primary care physician can diagnose and treat the majority of ankle injuries. Occasionally, stress radiographs, arthograms, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is needed. The vast majority of ankle sprains can be treated with adhesive tape strapping or semirigid orthotics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication followed by rehabilitation. Key points of rehabilitation are control of pain and swelling acutely with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories and RICE (rest, ice, compression, and elevation), then restoring normal range of motion, strengthening muscle groups, and retraining proprioception of the ankle joint.
16091467	Regeneration of plant organs is often the essential step in genetic transformation; however, the regeneration ability of a plant varies depending on the genetic background. By conventional crosses of low-regeneration rice strain Koshihikari with high-regeneration rice strain Kasalath, we identified some quantitative trait loci, which control the regeneration ability in rice. Using a map-based cloning strategy, we isolated a main quantitative trait loci gene encoding ferredoxin-nitrite reductase (NiR) that determines regeneration ability in rice. Molecular analyses revealed that the poor regeneration ability of Koshihikari is caused by lower expression than in Kasalath and the specific activity of NiR. Using the NiR gene as a selection marker, we succeeded in selectively transforming a foreign gene into rice without exogenous marker genes. Our results demonstrate that nitrate assimilation is an important process in rice regeneration and also provide an additional selectable marker for rice transformation.
1609163	In the last two decades, influenza A viruses have been found to occur throughout the animal kingdom, mainly in birds, notably aquatic ones, in which infection is largely intestinal, waterborne, and asymptomatic. The domestic duck of southern China, raised in countless numbers all year round mainly as an adjunct to rice farming, is the principal host of influenza A viruses. Studies based on Hong Kong H3N2 viruses from southern China suggest that pandemic strains originate from the domestic duck there and are transmitted to humans via the domestic pig, which acts as a "mixing vessel" for two-way transmission of viruses. This provides further support for the hypothesis that the region is a hypothetical influenza epicenter. Rural dwellers in the epicenter show serological evidence of contact with non-human influenza A viruses. Two hypotheses are advanced for the range of hemagglutinin (HA) subtypes of viruses that can cause pandemics (1) circle or cycle limited to H1, H2, and H3 subtypes, thereby implying that a virus of the H2 subtype will cause the next pandemic; and (2) spiral, by which any one of the 14 HA subtypes recorded to date may be involved. Consideration is given to the temporal and geographical factors and range of hosts, namely the duck, pig, and human, that need to be submitted to virus surveillance in China and beyond to attempt to anticipate a future pandemic. Evidence is presented that points strongly to pandemic influenza being a zoonosis.
16091774	Forty isolates of Macrophomina phaseolina, a pathogen causing charcoal dry root rot of soybean, cotton, and chickpea, were genetically characterized with universal rice primers (URP; primers derived from DNA repeat sequences in the rice genome) using polymerase chain reaction (URP-PCR). Out of 12 URPs used in this study, 5 primers were effective in producing polymorphic fingerprint patterns from the DNA of M. phaseolina isolates. Three primers (URP-2F, URP-6R, and URP-30F) were quite informative and produced high levels of polymorphism among the isolates of M. phaseolina. Analysis of the entire fingerprint profiles using unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic averages (UPGMA) clearly differentiated M. phaseolina isolates obtained from soybean, cotton, and chickpea hosts into specific groups. In this study, we found for the first time transferability and use of PCR primers derived from plant genomes to generate host-specific fingerprint profiles of M. phaseolina, a broad host range plant pathogenic fungus. These results demonstrate that URPs are sensitive and technically simple to use for assaying genetic variability in M. phaseolina populations.
16092764	Double-barreled (DB) data have been widely used for the assembly of large genomes. Based on the experience of building the whole-genome working draft of Oryza sativa L. ssp. Indica, we present here the prevailing and improved uses of DB data in the assembly procedure and report on novel applications during the following data-mining processes such as acquiring precise insert fragment information of each clone across the genome, and a new kind of low-cost whole-genome microarray. With the increasing number of organisms being sequenced, we believe that DB data will play an important role both in other assembly procedures and in future genomic studies.
16093270	This paper examines the basis of the greater tolerance of an indica rice cultivar FR13A to complete submergence compared with relatively intolerant japonica rice CT6241. We study whether this superior tolerance is related to its greater tolerance to O2 shortage and to an ability to run a more favourable rate of alcoholic fermentation during and after O2 deprivation. METHODS Fermentation products were analysed using sensitive laser-based photoacoustics at high time resolution to establish patterns and rates of ethanol and acetaldehyde emission by intact rice seedlings exposed to micro-aerobic (0.05-0.5 % O2) or zero O2 supply, and also during their return to air. Oxygen and CO2 emission or uptake was also quantified. In the dark, no acetaldehyde and ethanol emission was observed until external O2 concentration in a gas phase decreased to <or=0.3% O2. The ethanol production rate was maximal in 0% O2, similar in both cultivars and gradually diminished with increasing O2 concentration. Lag time for induction of fermentation increased with O2 up to 0.3% and was shorter in CT6241. Light strongly suppressed fermentation. In contrast to that of ethanol, emission of acetaldehyde in the dark under micro-aerobic conditions (<or=0.15% O2 gas phase) exceeded that under anaerobiosis, was maximal in 0.05% O2 and was greater in FR13A than in CT6241. A drop in acetaldehyde emission to about half its value immediately followed a switch to anaerobic conditions after 6.5 h treatment under 0.05% O2, while ethanol release showed a further increase. A large peak in acetaldehyde emission immediately followed the return of seedlings to air after treatment with <or=0.15% O2. The emission from FR13A was up to three times larger than from CT6241. Tolerance to submergence in FR13A appears not to be connected to its rate of ethanol production during anaerobiosis, but to the increased acetaldehyde output during and after experiencing micro-aerobic conditions (0.05-0.15% O2). Extra acetaldehyde production from ethanol may be a consequence of diversion of the reactive oxygen species away from the damaging lipid peroxidation pathway.
16093271	Akagare and Akiochi are diseases of rice associated with sulfide toxicity. This study investigates the possibility that rice reacts to sulfide by producing impermeable barriers in roots. Root systems of rice, Oryza sativa cv. Norin 36, were subjected to short-term exposure to 0.174 mm sulfide (5.6 ppm) in stagnant solution. Root growth was monitored; root permeability was investigated in terms of polarographic determinations of oxygen efflux from fine laterals and the apices of adventitious roots, water uptake, anatomy and permeability to Fe2+ using potassium ferricyanide. Both types of root responded rapidly to the sulfide with immediate cessation of growth, decreased radial oxygen loss (ROL) to the rhizospheres and reduced water uptake. Profiles of ROL measured from apex to basal regions of adventitious roots indicated that more intense barriers to ROL than normal were formed around the apices. Absorption of Fe2+ appeared to be impeded in sulfide-treated roots. In adventitious roots, deposition of lipid material (suberisation) and thickenings of walls within the superficial cell layers were obvious within a week after lifting the treatment and could prevent the emergence of laterals and commonly result in their upward longitudinal growth within the cortex. Death of laterals sometimes occurred prior to emergence; emergent laterals eventually died. In adventitious roots, blockages formed within the vascular and aeration systems in response to the sulfide. In both adventitious and lateral roots, sulfide-induced cell wall suberization and thickening of the superficial layers were correlated with reduced permeability to O2, water and Fe2+. This study sheds light on some of the symptoms of diseases such as Akiochi. The results correlate with the authors' previous findings on the effects on roots of sulfide and lower organic acids in Phragmites and of acetic acid in rice.
16093400	Yam (Dioscorea) has been used to treat menopausal symptom folklorically. This study was to investigate the effects of yam ingestion on lipids, antioxidant status, and sex hormones in postmenopausal women. Twenty-four apparently healthy postmenopausal women were recruited to replace their staple food (rice for the most part) with 390 g of yam (Dioscorea alata) in 2 of 3 meals per day for 30 days and 22 completed the study. Fasting blood and first morning urine samples were collected before and after yam intervention for the analyses of blood lipids, sex hormones, urinary estrogen metabolites and oxidant stress biomarker. The design was a one arm, pre-post study. A similar study of postmenopausal women (n = 19) fed 240 g of sweet potato for 41 days was included as a control study. Serum levels of estrone, estradiol and SHBG were analyzed for this control group. After yam ingestion, there were significant increases in serum concentrations of estrone (26%), sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) (9.5%), and near significant increase in estradiol (27%). No significant changes were observed in serum concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, androstenedione, testosterone, follicular stimulating hormone, and luteinizing hormone. Free androgen index estimated from the ratio of serum concentrations of total testosterone to SHBG decreased. Urinary concentrations of the genotoxic metabolite of estrogen, 16alpha-hydroxyestrone decreased significantly by 37%. Plasma cholesterol concentration decreased significantly by 5.9%. Lag time of low-density lipoprotein oxidation prolonged significantly by 5.8% and urinary isoprostane levels decreased significantly by 42%. For the control subjects fed with sweet potato, all three hormone parameters measured were not changed after intervention. Although the exact mechanism is not clear, replacing two thirds of staple food with yam for 30 days improves the status of sex hormones, lipids, and antioxidants. These effects might reduce the risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular diseases in postmenopausal women.
16093491	A computational model of energy metabolism in the mammalian ventricular myocyte is developed to study the effect of cytosolic calcium (Ca(2+)) transients on adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production. The model couples the Jafri-Dudycha model for tricarboxylic acid cycle regulation to a modified version of the Magnus-Keizer model for the mitochondria. The fluxes associated with Ca(2+) uptake and efflux (i.e., the Ca(2+) uniporter and Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger) and the F(1)F(0)-ATPase were modified to better model heart mitochondria. Simulations were performed at steady state and with Ca(2+) transients at various pacing frequencies generated by the Rice-Jafri-Winslow model for the guinea pig ventricular myocyte. The effects of the Ca(2+) transients for mitochondria both adjacent to the dyadic space and in the bulk myoplasm were studied. The model shows that Ca(2+) activation of both the tricarboxylic acid cycle and the F(1)F(0)-ATPase are necessary to produce increases in ATP production. The model also shows that in mitochondria located near the subspace, the large Ca(2+) transients can depolarize the mitochondrial membrane potential sufficiently to cause a transient decline in ATP production. However, this transient is of short duration, minimizing its impact on overall ATP production.
16094441	A rice mutant, designated pse(t) (premature senescence, tentatively), was isolated from a T-DNA-inserted transgenic population. Senescence advanced more markedly in pse(t) than in wild-type ('Zhonghua 11', japonica) plants. Genetic analysis of pse(t) revealed that the premature senescence mutation was controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene, but that it was not induced by T-DNA insertion. In an effort to understand the genetic and molecular basis underlying premature senescence in rice, a map-based cloning strategy was used to localize Pse(t). High-resolution mapping of the Pse(t) locus was carried out using simple sequence repeat (SSR) and cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers. An F2 population, comprising 1691 pse(t) individuals derived from a cross of the pse(t) mutant with 'Longtepu' (indica), was constructed. Several new polymorphism markers were developed in this study. Genetic linkage analysis showed that the Pse(t) gene was located on the long arm of chromosome 7. It was found that the Pse(t) gene cosegregated with 3 markers and was flanked by markers SS22 and PP21. Thus, the Pse(t) gene is located within a genetic distance of 0.15 cM, corresponding to a physical distance of 220 kb. These findings provide the basic information that can be used for the final isolation of this gene in the rice premature-senescence pathway.
16094463	A 190-kb mitochondrial DNA sequence interrupted by seven foreign DNA segments was identified in rice chromosome 12. This fragment is the largest mitochondrial fragment translocated into the rice nuclear genome. The sequence is composed of a 190-kb segment of mitochondrial origin corresponding to 38.79% of the mitochondrial genome, 45 kb comprising four segments of retrotransposon origin, and 13 kb comprising three segments of unknown origin. The 190-kb sequence shows more than 99.68% similarity to the current mitochondrial sequence, suggesting that its integration into the nucleus was quite recent. Several sequences in the 190-kb segment have been rearranged relative to the current mitochondrial sequence, suggesting that the past and present arrangements of the mitochondrial genome differ. The four retrotransposons show no mutual sequence similarity and are integrated into different locations, suggesting that their integration events were independent, frequent, and quite recent. A fragment of the mitochondrial genome present in the nuclear genome, such as the 248-kb sequence characterized in this study, is a good relic with which to investigate the past mitochondrial genome structure and the behavior of independent retrotransposons during evolution.
16094880
16095709	Aluminium (Al) ion limits root growth of plants in acidic soils, and rice exhibits the highest level of Al-tolerance among graminous crops. To elucidate Al-tolerance mechanisms in rice, response to Al was compared between rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. Nipponbare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum L., cv. ET8), focusing on seminal root growth at seedling stage and germination stage. At seedling stage, rice and wheat were similarly sensitive to Al in both dose- and time-dependent manner during a 24-h Al exposure. On the contrary, at germination stage, rice was more tolerant to Al than wheat, and wheat roots displayed the loss of plasma membrane integrity more extensively than rice. A rice mutant exhibiting Al hypersensitivity at germination stage was obtained by screening 42,840 R2 progeny derived from the regenerated R0 plants of Nipponbare and thereafter confirmation of the mutant phenotype in R3 progeny. At germination stage, root growth of the mutant was strongly inhibited in the presence of Al but not in the absence of Al. However, at seedling stage, root growth of the mutant and wild type was similarly tolerant to Al. Taken together, we conclude that rice possesses Al-tolerant function that is under genetic control and specifically operates for root growth at germination stage, making rice more tolerant to Al than wheat.
16096593	(1) To describe the incidence of inclusion of early mobilization components in emergency department (ED) discharge instructions; (2) to describe the prescribed follow-up appointments; and (3) to analyze the differences between the treatment of pediatric and adult patients. A 1-year retrospective chart review of ED records of a large urban hospital was performed. Medical records of 374 (95%) of the 397 adult and pediatric patients with ICD-9 code for ankle sprains were reviewed (213 males and 171 females, mean age 28.4 +/- 14.5; 291 adults, 93 pediatric). Sixteen percent of records contained discharge instructions that included rest, ice, compression, elevation, and medications (RICEM). Twenty percent included RICE. Pediatricians (33.7%) were more likely than adult physicians (10.3%) to have given RICEM (P < 0.0001) and RICE (P = 0.05, pedi = 45.8%, adult = 13.1%). Follow-up referrals were recommended as needed 50% of the time. Follow-up referrals were made to community clinics (59%), orthopedic clinic (23%), the ED (14%), and others (4%). Pediatricians were more likely to recommend routine scheduled follow up (pedi = 62%, adult = 47%, P = 0.018), suggest follow-up in a community clinic or doctors office (pedi = 68.6%, adult = 51.2%, P < 0.0001), and to recommend earlier follow up (pedi = 1.6 weeks +/- 1.1, adult = 2.0 weeks +/- 1.1, P = 0.002) than adult physicians. Programs that train physicians who work in the ED need to include education on the proper treatment, rehabilitation, and follow up of patients with acute ankle sprains. Providing easy-to-complete discharge instruction templates can help providers give patients discharge instructions that may help patients minimize the risk of long-term sequelae.
1609748	We developed an in vitro assay system that mimics the physiological conditions for starch digestion. In this system all undigested starch was termed resistant starch (RS). The richest sources of RS were firm bananas and roasted chickpeas. Different food-processing techniques produced different amounts of RS. RS in uncooked oats (0.161 g/g dry wt) and firm bananas (0.247 g/g dry wt) was reduced by cooking to 0.028 and 0.032 g/g dry wt, respectively. Cooling boiled potato overnight at 4 degrees C produced a 2.8-fold increase in the amounts of RS. Whole rice contained more RS than did ground rice whereas grinding did not affect amounts of RS in roasted chickpeas. Amounts of RS in food decreased with increased chewing, indicating that chewing can also affect the amount of starch escaping digestion. This assay may be useful in predicting which foods and processing techniques result in high amounts of starch escaping digestion in the small intestine.
16099315	Rice samples collected from the Republic of Korea were analyzed for fungal mycoflora and mycotoxins: fumonisins, ochratoxin A, trichothecenes, and zearalenone. The potential of the fungi to produce each mycotoxin was also examined, so that the fungal isolates associated with mycotoxins occurring in rice could be verified. Penicillium citrinum and Aspergillus candidus were the most prevalent species infecting the samples, while Fusarium proliferatum was found as the dominant Fusarium species. Ochratoxin A was the most commonly detected mycotoxin analyzed in the present study; moreover, its level in some samples was above the EU tolerable limit (3 ng/g). According to rice culture experiments, it was revealed that in Korea, fumonisins detected in rice were due to F. proliferatum infection, whereas the occurrence of ochratoxin A was caused by Penicillium verrucosum, though there were no symptoms of disease in rice found in any sample. Furthermore, there appears to be an uneven geographical distribution of P. verrucosum as well as ochratoxin A in that most of them are found in the rice samples produced in the northern region of Korea.
16099506	The effects of clomazone (0.5 and 1.0 mg/L) according to nominal concentrations used in paddy rice fields (0.4-0.7 mg/L) on protein and carbohydrate metabolism and haematological parameters were evaluated in silver catfish (Rhamdia quelen) after 12, 24, 48, 96 and 192 h of exposure with a recovery period of 96 and 192 h. Liver glycogen increased significantly (P<0.05) in all periods and concentrations tested. The maximum glycogen increase reaches 250% after 12h of exposure. Muscle glycogen reduced significantly after 24, 48, 96 and 192 h for both clomazone concentrations (P<0.05). Significantly elevated plasma glucose values (P<0.05) and variation in glucose in the liver and muscle of exposed fish were observed. Muscle lactate levels increased after 12, 24 and 48 h of clomazone exposure (22-67%), but reduced in the liver (P<0.05). Protein levels were enhanced in the liver and white muscle, except at 96 and 192 h of exposure, whereas it increased in the plasma in the period from 48 to 96 h (P<0.05). Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities were significantly elevated in the plasma (P<0.05). In the liver, ALT increased after 24 h, while AST activity was enhanced only after 12 h of exposure. Hematocrit contents were reduced after 96 and 192 h of exposure. Most of the metabolic disorders observed did not persist after the recovery period, except for the liver AST and ALT activity. Clomazone concentrations used in this study appear safe to fish, Rhamdia quelen, because overall parameters can be recovered after 96 and 192 h in clean water. ALT and AST activity may be an early biomarker of clomazone toxicity.
16099955
16099988	Microorganisms living in anoxic rice soils contribute 10 to 25% of global methane emissions. The most important carbon source for CH4 production is plant-derived carbon that enters soil as root exudates and debris. Pulse labeling of rice plants with 13CO2 resulted in incorporation of 13C into the ribosomal RNA of Rice Cluster I Archaea in the soil, indicating that this archaeal group plays a key role in CH4 production from plant-derived carbon. This group of microorganisms has not yet been isolated but appears to be of global environmental importance.
16100068	Supplementation of microbial phytase usually improves the digestibility and utilization of phosphorus in feedstuffs of plant origin. The effect of phytase supplementation on the digestibilities of AA also has been examined, but the results have been inconsistent. This study was carried out to determine the effect of phytase (Natuphos) supplementation, at a rate of 2,000 phytase units/kg, to two basal diets on the apparent ileal digestibilities (AID) of GE, CP, and AA, and on the apparent total-tract digestibilities (ATTD) of CP and GE. The basal diets contained 18% CP and were formulated (as-fed basis) to contain either a low (0.22%) or high content (0.48%) of phytate P. The high-phytate diet contained 20% rice bran, which is a rich source of phytate and has low intrinsic phytase activity. Eight barrows (average initial BW = 40.6 kg), fitted with a simple T-cannula at the distal ileum, were fed the four diets according to a replicated 4 x 4 Latin square design. The pigs were fed twice daily at 0800 and 2000, equal amounts each meal, at a rate of 2.4 times the daily maintenance requirement for ME. Each experimental period comprised 14 d. Ileal digesta were collected from 0800 to 2000 on d 12, 13, and 14. Feces were collected from 0800 on d 8 until 0800 on d 12. Chromic oxide was used as the digestibility marker. The AID of GE, CP, and AA and the ATTD of CP and GE were less in the high- than in the low-phytate diet (P < 0.01). With the exception of glutamic acid, phytase supplementation did not affect (P > 0.10) the AID of CP and AA. There was no effect (P > 0.05) of phytase on the ATTD of CP and GE. These results show that if a response occurs to phytase supplementation, it is independent of the dietary phytate content.
16100741	The chemiluminescence (CL) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seeds at different temperatures and the CL spectra of rice seed, caryopses and seed coat were studied during early imbibition. Compared with the CL of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and soybean (Glycine max L. Merr.) seeds, the CL of rice seeds had a non-linear, logarithmic-like increase of intensity in the temperature range 30-50 degrees C. The Van't Hoff coefficient Q(10) = I(T+10)/I(T) was equal to 2. The emission spectrum of whole rice seed, rice and coat had a greater proportion of red light during early imbibition, which led to the conclusion that the CL of rice seed during early imbibition arises partially from enzyme-catalysed reactions.
16100779	Rice, one of the world's most important food plants, has important syntenic relationships with the other cereal species and is a model plant for the grasses. Here we present a map-based, finished quality sequence that covers 95% of the 389 Mb genome, including virtually all of the euchromatin and two complete centromeres. A total of 37,544 non-transposable-element-related protein-coding genes were identified, of which 71% had a putative homologue in Arabidopsis. In a reciprocal analysis, 90% of the Arabidopsis proteins had a putative homologue in the predicted rice proteome. Twenty-nine per cent of the 37,544 predicted genes appear in clustered gene families. The number and classes of transposable elements found in the rice genome are consistent with the expansion of syntenic regions in the maize and sorghum genomes. We find evidence for widespread and recurrent gene transfer from the organelles to the nuclear chromosomes. The map-based sequence has proven useful for the identification of genes underlying agronomic traits. The additional single-nucleotide polymorphisms and simple sequence repeats identified in our study should accelerate improvements in rice production.
1610161	The effect of plasma glucose on satiety and the capacity of carbohydrates to stimulate cholecystokinin (CCK) remain unclear. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that the magnitude of the postprandial plasma glucose and insulin response is inversely related to the CCK response and to subjective satiety. Seven healthy, male volunteers consumed equal carbohydrate portions (0.5 g/kg body weight) of six test meals (Rice Bubbles, Sustain, Vita-Brits, All-Bran, porridge and white bread) in random order after an overnight fast. An egg and bacon meal was consumed as a non-carbohydrate control providing 0.5 g protein/kg body weight. Serum CCK, plasma glucose and insulin and subjective satiety (measured by a rating scale) were assessed over 3 h and quantified using the glycaemic index (GI), insulin index (II), the peak satiety score and area under the incremental curve (AUC). The observed GIs (mean +/- SE) ranged from 42.5 +/- 2.6 for All-Bran to 116.2 +/- 11.4 for Rice Bubbles, using white bread as the reference food (GI = 100). Peak satiety scores varied eightfold from 0.21 +/- 0.4 for Sustain to 1.64 +/- 0.4 for All-Bran. Significant inverse relationships were observed between the peak satiety score and both the glycaemic and insulin index of the seven meals (r = -0.916, p less than 0.001 and r = -0.926, p less than 0.001). A direct relationship was observed between satiety (AUC) and the CCK response (AUC) (r = 0.73 p less than 0.01). The results suggest that glycaemic and insulin responses to carbohydrate foods are inversely proportional to the CCK response and satiety.
16101997	Fungal hydrophobins are implicated in cell morphogenesis and pathogenicity in several plant pathogenic fungi including the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. A cDNA clone encoding a hydrophobin (magnaporin, MHP1) was isolated from a cDNA library constructed from rice leaves infected by M. grisea. The MHP1 codes for a typical fungal hydrophobin of 102 amino acids containing eight cysteine residues spaced in a conserved pattern. Hydropathy analysis of amino acids revealed that MHP1 belongs to the class II group of hydrophobins. The amino acid sequence of MHP1 exhibited about 20% similarity to MPG1, an M. grisea class I hydrophobin. Expression of MHP1 was highly induced during plant colonization and conidiation, but could hardly be detected during mycelial growth. Transformants in which MHP1 was inactivated by targeted gene replacement showed a detergent wettable phenotype, but were not altered in wettability with water. mhp1 mutants also exhibited pleiotropic effects on fungal morphogenesis, including reduction in conidiation, conidial germination, appressorium development and infectious growth in host cells. Furthermore, conidia of mhp1 mutants were defective in their cellular organelles and rapidly lose viability. As a result, mhp1 mutants exhibited a reduced ability to infect and colonize a susceptible rice cultivar. These phenotypes were recovered by re-introduction of an intact copy of MHP1. Taken together, these results indicate that MHP1 has essential roles in surface hydrophobicity and infection-related fungal development, and is required for pathogenicity of M. grisea.
16103671	Sorbitol (S), a widely used sugar substitute in sugar-free products, has shown intolerance manifested by abdominal pain, bloating and diarrhoea in children and adults. The nutritional and S-induced diarrhoea-preventive effect of rice gruel (RG) and rice starch (RS) was studied in cecectomized rats. During the 41-day experimental period, control, RG or RS, S, and S+RG or RS-containing diets were provided in four consecutive phases. The diet compositions were changed depending on the conditions of the diarrhoea. Faecal appearances of S- and S+RG/RS-fed groups were observed daily and scored (diarrhoea = 2, mixed fae ces = 1, normal faeces = 0) to evaluate the degree of diarrhoea. The diarrhoeal scores were significantly (p < 0.05) decreased in all phases of the RG- or RS-fed group compared to the control group (S). Serum lipid and colonic organic acid concentrations were decreased while faecal bile acids and neutral sterol concentrations were increased in the RG-fed group compared to the control which were measured in the samples collected from the last phase of the experiment. These results indicate that RG and RS may be useful additives in S-containing food products to prevent the possible risk of diarrhoea in humans.
16104605
16104687	Biomimetic research indicates that many phenomena regarding wettability in nature, such as the self-cleaning effect on a lotus leaf and cicada wing, the anisotropic dewetting behavior on a rice leaf, and striking superhydrophobic force provided by a water strider's leg, are all related to the unique micro- and nanostructures on the surfaces. It gives us much inspiration to realize special wettability on functional surfaces through the cooperation between the chemical composition and the surface micro- and nanostructures, which may bring great advantages in a wide variety of applications in daily life, industry, and agriculture. This Account reviews recent progress in these aspects.
16104784	The fruit of the tomato plant is composed of elongated tomato cells filled with organelles called chromoplasts (plastids). These plastids scattered throughout the cell are rich in nutrients, particularly protein (33%) and lipids (20%). They can be released from the cells by rupture of their cell membranes and then isolated. Plastids and their cell contents can be utilized by the food-processing industry for the preparation of special food products. This study was designed to examine the macronutrient content of isolated tomato plastids and, therefore, determine its potential nutritional value. Use of tomato plastids in pasta sauces and rice dishes, salsa, and extrusion products would increase the nutritional value of the product. Because glucose has been removed in the process of plastid isolation, tomato plastids are useful in the diets of diabetics and cardiovascular patients, as well as for patients in need of weight reduction. Composition comparison of tomato plastid is made with tomato paste, from which glucose has not been removed. Many people require low-sugar products for medical reasons (diabetics and those with cardiovascular disease) and others for weight loss. Therefore, tomato chromoplasts having high protein and lipid contents and low sugar content may be useful in meeting these particular human needs.
1610504	A retrospective epidemiological study was conducted in connection with an outbreak of paratyphoid fever at a Peruvian naval installation in Callao. The study sought to determine the magnitude of the outbreak, the source of infection, the attack rates, the persistence of bacilli excretion, and the clinical picture of the disease. The source of Salmonella paratyphi B infection had been a meal of chicken and rice served to around 400 members of the naval police. Over a period of three weeks, 21 persons were hospitalized and 52 received outpatient treatment at the naval hospital. In addition, through a questionnaire it was revealed that 86 unreported cases of diarrhea related to the outbreak had occurred. The most common clinical manifestations were fever, headache, weakness, anorexia, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. The general attack rate was 39.8%. In a follow-up survey carried out 37 days after exposure, fecal cultures indicated that 8.5% of the persons affected continued to excrete the microorganism. The high rates of attack and transmission of S. paratyphi B in this outbreak point up the considerable pathogenicity and virulence of some strains of the microorganism and their impact on public health. It is suggested that preventive measures be taken at naval and other similar installations, including the education of workers who handle and prepare food, in order to ensure proper hygiene.
16105854	The rice OsBIHD1 gene encodes a transcriptional factor belonging to the homeodomain class. It had previously been shown to be activated by treatment with benzothiadiazole, a chemical inducer of disease resistance, and in an incompatible interaction between rice and the blast fungus. To allow a better understanding of the function of OsBIHD1 in plant disease resistance response, the OsBIHD1 gene in tobacco was overexpressed by Agrobacterium-mediated leaf disc transformation with a construct containing the OsBIHD1 ORF under control of the 35S promoter. Overexpression of the rice OsBIHD1 gene in some of the transgenic tobacco lines led to some morphological abnormalities in the top buds and roots. The transgenic tobacco plants showed an elevated level of defence-related PR-1 gene expression and enhanced disease resistance against infection by tomato mosaic virus, tobacco mosaic virus, and Phytophthora parasitica var. nicotianae. However, the transgenic tobacco plants overexpressing OsBIHD1 showed enhanced sensitivity to salt and oxidative stress as compared with the wild-type plants. The results suggested that the OsBIHD1 protein may be positively involved in activating expression of the defence-related genes in disease resistance responses, and is also important in rice development and abiotic stress tolerance.
16106749	WRKY transcription factors, originally isolated from plants contain one or two conserved WRKY domains, about 60 amino acid residues with the WRKYGQK sequence followed by a C2H2 or C2HC zinc finger motif. Evidence is accumulating to suggest that the WRKY proteins play significant roles in responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, and in development. In this research, we identified 102 putative WRKY genes from the rice genome and compared them with those from Arabidopsis. The WRKY genes from rice and Arabidopsis were divided into three groups with several subgroups on the basis of phylogenies and the basic structure of the WRKY domains (WDs). The phylogenetic trees generated from the WDs and the genes indicate that the WRKY gene family arose during evolution through duplication and that the dramatic amplification of rice WRKY genes in group III is due to tandem and segmental gene duplication compared with those of Arabidopsis. The result suggests that some of the rice WRKY genes in group III are evolutionarily more active than those in Arabidopsis, and may have specific roles in monocotyledonous plants. Further, it was possible to identify the presence of WRKY-like genes in protists (Giardia lamblia and Dictyostelium discoideum) and green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii through database research, demonstrating the ancient origin of the gene family. The results obtained by alignments of the WDs from different species and other analysis imply that domain gain and loss is a divergent force for expansion of the WRKY gene family, and that a rapid amplification of the WRKY genes predate the divergence of monocots and dicots. On the basis of these results, we believe that genes encoding a single WD may have been derived from the C-terminal WD of the genes harboring two WDs. The conserved intron splicing positions in the WDs of higher plants offer clues about WRKY gene evolution, annotation, and classification.
16108380	The mutant population of Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae strain differential to rice bacterial blight resistance gene Xa23 has been constructed mediated by transposon in vivo . The results of PCR amplification with specific primers and analysis of flanking sequence of mutants indicated that the foreign DNA has been integrated into X. oryzae pv oryzae genome. Four mutants with changed avirulent activity to Xa23 gene have been identified by artificial inoculation. It is possible to clone genes that are required for AvrXa23 avirulence activity using this new strategy.
16108502	Direct DNA delivery procedures (include biolistics method) often resulted in multiple copies of the transgenes in transformants and certain copies of them were rearranged. Integration of multiple copies of the introduced genes was the main reason of gene silencing which meant inhibition or loss of foreign gene expression in filial generations of transformants. In the present work, we compared the influences of maize Ubi-1 promoter and other promoters on copy number of transgenes in maize transgenic plants. Immature embryos from Zea mays L. plants of sib-pollinated of A188 x H99 genotype were used as initial materials. Type- I embryonic calluses derived from preculture of immature embryos were treated on N6 medium containing 0.6 mol/L sucrose for 3 approximately 5 hours and transformed via particle bombardment with PDS1000/He delivery system (Bio-Rad). Bombarded calluses were treated with hyperosmotic N6 medium for 16 approximately 20 hours continuously. Then the cultures were transferred onto normal N6 medium and incubated at 26 degrees C in dark for two weeks and subsequently selected on N6 medium supplemented with 2 or 5 mg/L phosphinothricin (PPT) but without casamino acid for another two weeks. The calluses after selective culture were transferred onto hormone-free MS medium containing 2 or 5 mg/L PPT but without casamino acid, and incubated at 24 degrees C under 16 h illumination for plant regeneration. Regenerated plantlets over 2 cm in height were transferred to Magenta box containing 1/2 hormone-free MS medium. Plantlets over 8 cm in height were transplanted to soil. After growing for one week in greenhouse, the plants were sprayed with 250 mg/L PPT solution. Fertile transgenic maize plants were regenerated and confirmed by Southern blotting and histochemical localization of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity. Relations between promoter and copy number of transgenes in transformants were analyzed. Maize transgenic plants possessing an intact copy and another incomplete copy of beta-glucuronidase gene (gus) were obtained in case gus gene under the control of maize Ubi-1 promoter (pUbi:GUS). Simultaneously the co-transformed phosphinothricin acetyltransferase gene (bar) controlled by CaMV 35S promoter in another plasmid (p35S:BAR) also existed with only one copy. When pDB1 and (pUbi:in2) were cobombarded, the regenerated transgenic maize plant exhibited with only one copy of in2 gene too. It suggested that the copy number of transgenes in maize transformants was low if the transgenes controlled by maize Ubi-1 promoter. The possible reason might be that the foreign genes were integrated site-specifically via homologous recombination between Ubi-1 promoter and its endogenous sequences in maize genome, and two cotransformed plasmids had reconstructed as one intact molecule before integrating into maize chromosome. On the contrary, if p35S:BAR was cobom-barded with plasmid pAct:In1 containing rice Act-1 promoter (without maize Ubi-1 promoter), the transgenic maize plants had 4 approximately 8 copies of bar gene. These results reflected that utilization of self gene promoter could reduce the copy number of the transgenes in transgenic plants of certain species itself and avoid the occurrence of gene silencing. T2 seeds have been harvested.
16108641	Photodissociation of pyridine, 2,6-d2-pyridine, and d5-pyridine at 193 and 248 nm was investigated separately using multimass ion imaging techniques. Six dissociation channels were observed at 193 nm, including C5NH5 --> C5NH4 + H (10%) and five ring opening dissociation channels, C5NH5 --> C4H4 + HCN, C5NH5 --> C3H3 + C2NH2, C5NH5 --> C2H4 +C3NH, C5NH5 --> C4NH2 + CH3 (14%), and C5NH5 --> C2H2 + C3NH3. Extensive H and D atom exchanges of 2,6-d2-pyridine prior to dissociation were observed. Photofragment translational energy distributions and dissociation rates indicate that dissociation occurs in the ground electronic state after internal conversion. The dissociation rate of pyridine excited by 248-nm photons was too slow to be measured, and the upper limit of the dissociation rate was estimated to be 2x10(3) s(-1). Comparisons with potential energies obtained from ab initio calculations and dissociation rates obtained from the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory have been made.
16109637	We describe a rapid and simple procedure for homogenizing leaf samples suitable for mini/midi-scale DNA preparation in rice. The methods used tungsten carbide beads and general vortexer for homogenizing leaf samples. In general, two samples can be ground completely within 11.3+/-1.5 sec at one time. Up to 20 samples can be ground at a time using a vortexer attachment. The yields of the DNA ranged from 2.2 to 7.6 microg from 25-150 mg of young fresh leaf tissue. The quality and quantity of DNA was compatible for most of PCR work and RFLP analysis.
16109655	Dietary modification improves symptoms in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Identification of offending foods by dietary elimination/re-challenge is cumbersome. IgG4 antibodies to common food antigens are elevated in IBS. The aim of this article was to evaluate the effect of exclusion diet based on IgG4 titres on IBS symptoms and rectal sensitivity and compliance. The study comprised 25 patients with IBS (3 M, 22 F, mean age 43 years, Rome II criteria). IgG4 titres to 16 foods (milk, eggs, cheese, wheat, rice, potatoes, chicken, beef, pork, lamb, soya bean, fish, shrimps, yeast, tomatoes and peanuts) were measured. Foods with titres >250 microg/l were excluded for 6 months. Symptom severity was assessed with a previously validated questionnaire at baseline, at 3 months and at 6 months. Rectal compliance and sensitivity were measured in 12 patients at baseline and at 6 months. IgG4 antibodies to milk, eggs, wheat, beef, pork and lamb were commonly elevated. Significant improvement was reported in pain severity (p < 0.001), pain frequency (p = 0.034), bloating severity (p = 0.001), satisfaction with bowel habits (p = 0.004) and effect of IBS on life in general (p = 0.008) at 3 months. Symptom improvement was maintained at 6 months. Rectal compliance was significantly increased (p = 0.011) at 6 months but the thresholds for urge to defecate/discomfort were unchanged. Food-specific IgG4 antibody-guided exclusion diet improves symptoms in IBS and is associated with an improvement in rectal compliance.
16109971	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) chromosome 3 is evolutionarily conserved across the cultivated cereals and shares large blocks of synteny with maize and sorghum, which diverged from rice more than 50 million years ago. To begin to completely understand this chromosome, we sequenced, finished, and annotated 36.1 Mb (approximately 97%) from O. sativa subsp. japonica cv Nipponbare. Annotation features of the chromosome include 5915 genes, of which 913 are related to transposable elements. A putative function could be assigned to 3064 genes, with another 757 genes annotated as expressed, leaving 2094 that encode hypothetical proteins. Similarity searches against the proteome of Arabidopsis thaliana revealed putative homologs for 67% of the chromosome 3 proteins. Further searches of a nonredundant amino acid database, the Pfam domain database, plant Expressed Sequence Tags, and genomic assemblies from sorghum and maize revealed only 853 nontransposable element related proteins from chromosome 3 that lacked similarity to other known sequences. Interestingly, 426 of these have a paralog within the rice genome. A comparative physical map of the wild progenitor species, Oryza nivara, with japonica chromosome 3 revealed a high degree of sequence identity and synteny between these two species, which diverged approximately 10,000 years ago. Although no major rearrangements were detected, the deduced size of the O. nivara chromosome 3 was 21% smaller than that of japonica. Synteny between rice and other cereals using an integrated maize physical map and wheat genetic map was strikingly high, further supporting the use of rice and, in particular, chromosome 3, as a model for comparative studies among the cereals.
16110664	In order to explore the bio-interference of allelopathic rice with barnyardgrass under different nitrogen supplies, a new bioassay method, i.e., allelopathy-competition separation based (ACS) approach was recommended in this study. The results indicated that ACS could be successfully used to distinguish the rice allelopathy from its resources competition in rice-weed co-culture system, and to evaluate its response characteristics under different N supplies. The test rice accession PI312777 had a higher ability in interfering target weed barnyardgrass (BYD), represented by its stable and higher ability in resources competition, as well as its increasing allelopathic potential in suppressing companion weed BYD when the N supply decreased in the co-cultured system. The reverse was true in the case of rice accession Lemont, which had a lower allelopathic potential under all N supply levels, and a lower ability in resources competition under normal or rich N supply. But, Lemont had an obviously increased ability in resources competition under lower N supply, which was considered as the result of econiche competition in rice-weed system.
16110665	In order to understand the allelopathic mechanisms of rice on weed, the allelochemical substitutes salicylic acid, p-hydroxybenzonic acid, cinnamic acid, vanillic acid and ferulic acid were used in an orthogonally gyrating regression experiment to study their interactive effects on the growth of barnyardgrass. The results indicated that whether the interactive effects between two substitutes, e.g., between salicylic and cinnamic acid or between salicylic and p-hydrobanzonic acid, were synergistic or antagonistic depended on the concentrations of each substitutes in the mixture. In the mixture of salicylic acid and p-hydrobanzonic acid, the effect of salicylic acid was synergistic at < 0.14 mmol.L(-1) but antagonistic at > 0.14 mmol.L(-1), while p-hydrobanzonic acid showed an antagonistic effect at > 0.425 mmol.L(-1). Salicylic acid at all test concentrations exhibited antagonism to cinnamic acid, while cinnamic acid had a synergistic at < 0.14 mmol.L(-1), but an antagonistic effect at >0.14 mmol.L(-1) on alicylic acid. The interactive effects between cinnamic and ferulic acid were all synergistic at test concentrations.
16110673	Using free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) platform and under different nitrogen supply level, this paper studied the phosphorus nutrition of Oryza sativa at its different growth stages. The CO2 concentration of FACE platform was 200 micromol.mol(-1) more than that in ambient air, and the nitrogen supply levels were 150 kg.hm(-2), 250 kg.hm(-2) and 280 kg.hm(-2). The results showed that during rice growth period, FACE significantly increased the phosphorus content of rice plant and its phosphorus uptake by 3.9%-20.6% and 28.9%-71.4%, respectively. Before heading, FACE had little effect on the phosphorous accumulation in leaf or stake, but after heading, made the proportion of phosphorus accumulation in reproductive organ decreased by 9.8%-26.3% and that in vegetative organ increased by 2.2%-23.9% at 0.01 or 0.05 significant level. Under FACE treatment, the phosphorus use efficiency for biomass production (PUEp) at different growth stages, the phosphorus use efficiency for grain output (PUEg), and the phosphorus harvest index (PHI) were decreased by 3.7%-16.6%, 6.5% -15.5%, 5.4%-9.0%, respectively. Nitrogen supply level and its interaction with FACE had less effect on the phosphorus-nutrition of rice at its different growth stages.
16110962	Lipase-overproducing marine yeast Bohaisea-9145 isolated from the Bohai sea region was identified as psychrotrophlic Yarrowia lipolytica. The optimum composition of culture medium was ground soybean 4%, rice bran 4%, peanut power 4%, crude peanut oil 0.5%, MgSO4 0.05%, KH2PPO4 0.2%. The optimum temperature and pH were 26 +/- 1 degrees C pH5.0, the time of fermentation cycle was 23h. The lipase activity was improved to 258.67 U/mL through optimization, four-fold more than that of initial strain. The lipase displayed maximum activity at pH 8.5, 35 degrees C and was stable within the range of pH 4.0 - 9.0 at low temperature. It had high thermosensitivity, good compatibility with familiar metal ions and chemical reagents. It was antioxidant and had strong resistance to high salinity. As a novel marine low-temperature lipase, it has promising prospect in many fields, especially as an additive of detergent.
16111043	To detect the expression level of CpTI and HPT proteins in the seed of sck transgenic rice. The seeds of T6 sck transgenic rice were detected by PCR. The CpTI and HPT proteins in the seeds, stems, roots and leaves of positive plants were detected by Western blot. The CpTI and HPT proteins in the seeds of positive plants and the control plants were detected by double sandwich ELISA. hpt and sck genes were found in T6 sck rice. The CpTI and HPT proteins were positive in the leaves, stems, and roots in Western blot analysis, and negative in the seeds. The content of CpTI protein is lower than LLD of double sandwich ELISA (< 14 ug/L), and HPT protein could not be detected. The content of CpTI protein in the seeds of T6 sck rice is lower than LLD of double sandwich ELISA, and HPT protein could not be detected.
16113220	Centromeres are required for faithful segregation of chromosomes in cell division. It is not clear what kind of sequences act as functional centromeres and how centromere sequences are organized in Oryza punctata, a BB genome species. In this study, we found that the CentO centromeric satellites in O. punctata share high homology with the CentO satellites in O. sativa. The O. punctata centromeres are characterized by megabase tandem arrays that are flanked by centromere-specific retrotransposons. Immunostaining with an antibody specific to CENH3 indicates that the 165-bp CentO satellites are the major component for functional centromeres. Moreover, both strands of CentO satellites are highly methylated and transcribed and produce small interfering RNA, which may be important for the maintenance of centromeric heterochromatin and centromere function.
16113900	Data from household food budget surveys were examined in order to describe the regional and socio-economic distribution of household food availability in Brazil in 2002-2003 and trends from 1974 to 2003. The study uses data from the "Pesquisa de Orçamento Familiar 2002-2003" budget survey conducted by the Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística) from July 2002 to June 2003, including a national sample of 48,470 households. In each household, during seven consecutive days, all monetary and non-monetary expenses with food and beverages for family consumption were registered. Crude weights of purchased foods were transformed into calories and nutrients with the use of food composition tables. Adequate protein content and a high proportion of animal protein were found in all regions and income strata. These were the most important positive aspects identified in the household food availability in Brazil. On the other hand, all regions and socio-economic strata showed excess calories from sugar and little availability of fruits and vegetables. An excessive proportion of calories came from total and saturated fat in the more economically developed regions and in the urban milieu, as well as among higher-income families. Time-trends in metropolitan areas indicated a decline in the consumption of basic, traditional foods, such as rice and beans; notable increases (up to 400%) in the consumption of processed food items, such as cookies and soft drinks; maintenance of the excessive consumption of sugar; and a continuous increase in total fat and saturated fat content in the diet. Patterns and trends regarding household food availability in Brazil are consistent with the increasing participation of chronic non-communicable diseases in morbidity and mortality and with the continuous increase in the prevalence of obesity.
16113941	A laboratory experiment on an Inceptisol with pH 7.6, organic carbon 6.8 g kg(-1), and 0.5 M NaHCO3 extractable arsenic 0.4 mg kg(-1) was conducted to study the interaction effect of graded levels of arsenic (0, 5, and 10 mg kg(-1)) with zinc (0, 10, and 20 mg kg(-1)) and organics (0, 1, and 2% on soil weight basis) separately on the mobilization of arsenic in soils. The results show that the amount of 0.5 M NaHCO3 extractable arsenic at pH 8.5 increased with the progress of submergence up to 35 days. However, the increase in arsenic concentration was correlated with decreasing application of graded levels of Zn as zinc sulfate. The intensity of reduction varied with varying levels of Zn, being higher (0.73-2.72 mg kg(-1)) in the treatment where Zn was at 10 mg kg(-1) and lower (0.70-1.08 mg kg(-1)) with Zn at 20 mg kg(-1) application. The amount of arsenic content in the soil significantly decreased with the application of varying levels of organics. However, such depressive effect was found more pronounced with well-decomposed farm yard manure than that of vermicompost. The results of field experiments showed that the grain yield between continuous flooding (4.84 t ha(-1)) and intermittent flooding up to 40 days after transplanting then continuous flooding (4.83 t ha(-1)) with the application of ZnSO4 at 25 kg ha(-1) did not vary. The lowest grain yield (3.65 t ha(-1)) was recorded in the treatment where intermittent flooding was maintained throughout the growth period without the application of Zn. The amount of arsenic content was, however, recorded much lower in the treatment where intermittent flooding throughout the growth period was maintained with ZnSO4.
16115061	Arabidopsis NPR1/NIM1 is a key regulator of systemic acquired resistance (SAR), which confers lasting broad-spectrum resistance. Over-expression of Arabidopsis NPR1 or the NPR1 homolog 1 (NH1) in rice results in enhanced resistance to the pathogen Xanthomonasoryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), suggesting the presence of a related defense pathway in rice. We investigated this pathway in rice by identifying proteins that interact with NH1. Here we report the isolation and characterization of a rice cDNA encoding a novel protein, named NRR (for negative regulator of resistance). NRR interacts with NPR1 in the NPR1-interacting domain (NI25) consisting of 25 amino acids. NRR also interacts with NH1; however, NI25 was not sufficient for a strong interaction, indicating a difference between the rice and the Arabidopsis proteins. Silencing of NRR in rice had little effect on resistance to Xoo. When constitutively over-expressed in rice, NRR affected basal resistance, age-related resistance and Xa21-mediated resistance, causing enhanced susceptibility to Xoo. This phenotype was correlated with elevated NRR mRNA and protein levels and increased Xoo growth. Over-expression of NRR suppressed the induction of defense-related genes. NRR:GFP (green fluorescent protein) protein was localized to the nucleus, indicating that NRR may act directly to suppress the activation of defense genes. The fact that NRR compromises Xa21-mediated resistance indicates cross-talk or overlap between NH1- and Xa21-mediated pathways.
16115339	Overall dietary patterns have been associated with health and longevity. We used principal component (PC) and cluster analyses to identify the prevailing dietary patterns of 99 744 participants, aged 60 years or older, living in nine European countries and participating in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC-Elderly cohort) and to examine their socio-demographic and lifestyle correlates. Two PC were identified: PC1 reflects a 'vegetable-based' diet with an emphasis on foods of plant origin, rice, pasta and other grain rather than on margarine, potatoes and non-alcoholic beverages. PC2 indicates a 'sweet- and fat-dominated' diet with a preference for sweets, added fat and dairy products but not meat, alcohol, bread and eggs. PC1 was associated with a younger age, a higher level of education, physical activity, a higher BMI, a lower waist:hip ratio and never and past smoking. PC2 was associated with older age, less education, never having smoked, a lower BMI and waist:hip ratio and lower levels of physical activity. Elderly individuals in southern Europe scored positively on PC1 and about zero on PC2, whereas the elderly in northern Europe scored negatively on PC1 and variably on PC2. The results of cluster analysis were compatible with the indicated dietary patterns. 'Vegetable-based' and a 'sweet- and fat-dominated' diets are prevalent among the elderly across Europe, and there is a north-south gradient regarding their dietary choices. Our study contributes to the identification of groups of elderly who are likely to have different prospects for long-term disease occurrence and survival.
16115540	Physically refined rice bran oil containing 2-4% nontriglyceride components as compared to other vegetable oils appears to be associated with lipid lowering and antiinflammatory properties in several rodent, primate and human models. These experiments were designed to investigate possible mechanisms for the hypocholesterolemic effect of the physically refined rice bran oil and to examine its effect on aortic fatty streak formation. In the first experiment, 30 hamsters were fed, for 8 weeks, chow-based diets plus 0.03% added cholesterol and 5% (wt/wt) coconut, canola, or physically refined rice bran oil (COCO, CANOLA or PRBO animal groups, respectively). Both plasma total cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) were significantly reduced in PRBO but not in CANOLA relative to COCO. PRBO also showed a significant 15-17% reduction in cholesterol absorption and significant 30% increase in neutral sterol (NS) excretion with no effect on bile acid (BA) excretion. Both CANOLA and PRBO showed a significant 300-500% increase in intestinal 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase and significant (>25%) decrease in hepatic HMG-CoA reductase activities with respect to COCO. In a second experiment, 36 hamsters were fed chow-based diets with 0.05% added cholesterol, 10% coconut oil and 4% additional COCO, CANOLA or PRBO. Relative to COCO and CANOLA, plasma TC and LDL-C were significantly reduced in PRBO. Early atherosclerosis (fatty streak formation) was significantly reduced (48%) only in PRBO, relative to the other two. These results suggest that the lipid lowering found in PRBO is associated with decreased cholesterol absorption, but not hepatic cholesterol synthesis, and that the decrease in fatty streak formation with this oil may be associated with its nontriglyceride components not present in the other two diets.
16115835	and Aims Flooding stress leads to a significant reduction in transcription and translation of genes involved in basal metabolism of plants. However, specific genes are noted to be up-regulated in this response. With the aim of isolating genes that might be specifically involved in flooding stress-tolerance mechanism(s), two subtractive cDNA libraries for the flooding-stress-tolerant rice genotype FR13A have been constructed, namely the single and double subtraction libraries (SSL and DSL, respectively). To construct the SSL, mRNAs present in the unstressed control FR13A roots were subtracted from the mRNA pool present in low O2-stressed roots of FR13A rice seedlings. The DSL was constructed from mRNAs isolated from the roots of low O2-stressed FR13A rice seedlings from which pools of low-O2-stress up-regulated mRNAs from Pusa Basmati 1 and constitutively expressed mRNAs from FR13A roots were subtracted. In all, 400 and 606 cDNA clones were obtained from the SSL and DSL, respectively. Global transcript profiling by reverse northern analysis revealed that a large number of clones from these libraries were up-regulated by anaerobic stress. Importantly, selective up-regulated clones showed characteristic cultivar- and tissue-specific expression profiles. Sequencing and annotation of the up-regulated clones revealed that specific signal proteins, hexose transporters, ion channel transporters, RNA-binding proteins and transcription factor proteins possibly play important roles in the response of rice to flooding stress. Also a significant number of novel cDNA clones was noted in these libraries. It appears that cellular functions such as signalling, sugar and ion transport and transcript stability play an important role in conferring higher flooding tolerance in the FR13A rice type.
16117849	WRKY family proteins are a class of plant specific transcription factors that involve in many stress response pathways. It has been shown that one Arabidopsis WRKY protein, AtWRKY29/22, is activated by MAP kinase signaling cascade and confers resistance to both bacterial and fungal pathogens. However, little is known about the biological roles of WRKY proteins in rice. In this study, we investigated the expression patterns of rice AtWRKY29/22 homolog, OsWRKY03, under different conditions, and also its possible role involved in plant defense. Our results showed that OsWRKY03 was up-regulated by several defense signaling molecules or different treatments. Further analysis revealed that the expression of OsWRKY03 was light dependent. Transcriptional activation activity of OsWRKY03 was also demonstrated by yeast functional assay. Transient expression of OsWRKY03-GFP fusion protein in onion epidermis cells showed that OsWRKY03 was a nuclear localized protein. OsNPR1 as well as several other pathogenesis-related genes, such as OsPR1b, phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (ZB8) and peroxidase (POX22.3), were induced in OsWRKY03-overexpressing transgenic plants. These results indicated that OsWRKY03 is located upstream of OsNPR1 as a transcriptional activator in salicylic acid (SA)-dependent or jasmonic acid (JA)-dependent defense signaling cascades.
16117852	Rice with low glutelin content is suitable as functional food for patients affected with diabetes and kidney failure. The fine mapping of the gene(s) responsible for low glutelin content will provide information regarding the distribution of glutelin related genes in rice genome and will generate markers for the selection of low glutelin rice varieties. Following an SDS-PAGE screen of rice germplasm from Taihu Valley of China, Japonica selection W3660 is identified to be a novel mutant characterized with low glutelin content. For fine mapping the mutant gene for low glutelin content, F2 and F3 populations were derived from a cross between W3660 and Jingrennuo. SDS-PAGE analysis of the total endosperm protein showed that the low glutelin content trait was controlled by a single dominant nuclear gene. Genetic mapping, using SSRs, located this gene to chromosome 2, in the region between SSR2-001/SSR2-004 and RM1358. The distances of the two markers to the target gene were 1.1 cM and 3.8 cM respectively. By semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis, the transcripts of GluB4/GluB5 genes located within the region do not change. However, GluB5 gene located proximal to SSR2-001/SSR2-004 was specifically reduced. SSR profiles of seven Japonica varieties were compared with that of W3660 for loci in the relevant genetic region. The markers SSR2-004 and RM1358 were used for marker-assisted selection. The selection efficiencies of SSR2-004 and RM1358 were 96.8% and 92.7% respectively. This provides a standard starting point for the breeding of low glutelin content rice varieties in China.
16117853	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 20-22 nucleotide non-coding RNAs that play important roles in plant and animal development. They are usually processed from larger precursors that can form stem-loop structures. Among 20 miRNA families that are conserved between Arabidopsis and rice, the rice miR395 gene family was unique because it was organized into compact clusters that could be transcribed as one single transcript. We show here that in fact this family had four clusters of total 24 genes. Three of these clusters were segmental duplications. They contained miR395 genes of both 120 bp and 66 bp long. However, only the latter was repeatedly duplicated. The fourth cluster contained miR395 genes of two different sizes that could be the consequences of intergenic recombination of genes from the first three clusters. On each cluster, both 1-duplication and 2-duplication histories were observed based on the sequence similarity between miR395 genes, some of which were nearly identical suggesting a recent origin. This was supported by a miR395 locus survey among several species of the genus Oryza, where two clusters were only found in species with an AA genome, the genome of the cultivated rice. A comparative study of the genomic organization of Medicago truncatula miR395 gene family showed significant expansion of intergenic spaces indicating that the originally clustered genes were drifting away from each other. The diverse genomic organizations of a conserved microRNA gene family in different plant genomes indicated that this important negative gene regulation system has undergone dramatic tune-ups in plant genomes.
16117970	In Anopheles gambiae, as in most species of mosquitoes, mating is initiated in flight. The males aggregate in aerial swarms and conspecific females individually fly to these swarms where they mate with males. In this study, we investigated the swarming behaviour of A. gambiae and conducted 2 surveys in the rice field area of the Vallée du Kou in Burkina Faso in 1999 and 2002. A high number of anopheline mosquitoes were observed in this area and both molecular M and S forms of A. gambiae were found in sympatry. Swarms formed a few minutes after sunset in different places and no obvious markers were associated with their occurrence. However, swarms occurred close to cow herds generally in open flat areas, 2-3 m above the ground. Overall, 2829 anopheline mosquitoes were collected from 21 swarms composed primarily of males. A few specimens of Culex quinquefasciatus were collected from 3 swarms. Although both molecular M and S forms were found in sympatry in the village, swarms were composed almost exclusively of the molecular M form. This suggests that there are alternative swarming habits for both molecular M and S forms of A. gambiae in nature.
16118132	Crosses were produced by using a storable rice variety (Daw Dam) and 2070, Ming Hui 63, as well as Dulur/Xie Qing Zao B as parents, among these materials there are abundant polymorphisms of DNA molecular markers. Their F1's were applied to generate DH lines by an improved method of direct induction of pollen plant. The method of the direct induction of pollen plant was used as check treatment to evaluate the improved method. The results showed that the improved method increased the re-differentiation percentage of pollen callus, the percentage of regeneration plantlets, and the percentage of green regeneration plantlets and produced more vigorous seedlings. The improved method was a competent method of establishing DH population for mapping lox-3 gene. It was also showed that the efficiency of the new method was different among genotypes and out of three experimental crosses Daw Dam/2070 and Daw Dam/Minghui 63 showed more efficient. More than 60 DH lines have been obtained in this experiment.
1611832	The aim of the present study was to determine whether any benefit might occur from lowering the glycaemic index of diet in the medium term in diabetic patients. Eighteen well-controlled diabetic patients (12 Type 1 and 6 Type 2 non-insulin-treated), were assigned to either a high mean glycaemic index or low mean glycaemic index diet for 5 weeks each in a random order using a cross-over design. The two diets were equivalent in terms of nutrient content and total and soluble fibre content. The glycaemic indices were 64 +/- 2 (mean +/- SD) % and 38 +/- 5% for the two diets. The high glycaemic index diet was enriched in bread and potato and the low glycaemic index diet in pasta, rice, and legumes. At the end of the study periods, the following variables were improved on the low compared to the high glycaemic index diet: fructosamine (3.9 +/- 0.9 vs 3.4 +/- 0.4 mmol l-1, p less than 0.05); fasting blood glucose (10.8 +/- 2.8 vs 9.6 +/- 2.7 mmol l-1, p less than 0.02); 2-h postprandial blood glucose (11.6 +/- 2.9 vs 10.3 +/- 2.5 mmol l-1, p less than 0.02); mean daily blood glucose (12.0 +/- 2.5 vs 10.4 +/- 2.7 mmol l-1, p less than 0.02); serum triglycerides (1.5 +/- 0.9 vs 1.2 +/- 0.6 mmol l-1, p less than 0.05). No significant differences were found in body weight, HbA1C, insulin binding to erythrocytes, insulin and drug requirements, and other circulating lipids (cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, phospholipids, Apolipoprotein A1, Apolipoprotein B). Thus the inclusion of low glycaemic index foods in the diet of diabetic patients may be an additional measure which slightly but favourably influences carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, requires only small changes in nutritional habits and has no known deleterious effects.
16119542	We compared the development of the molecular forms of Anopheles gambiae s.s. in different larval habitats. First stage larvae (L1s) of wild-caught females were placed into cages in natural habitats of the M form (rice fields) or the S form (puddles/ quarries). Each cage was covered with cloth, allowing exchange of water, solutes, and small particles, including microorganisms, and was seeded with 100 L1s of a single form (M or S) or by a mixture of 50:50 of M and S forms. Emergence success of both forms in puddles and quarries was three-fold higher than in the rice fields. The emergence rate of the S form was higher than that of the M form in both habitats, but the form x habitat interaction was not significant. In temporary larval sites such as puddles, emergence success of the M form was lower in mixed cages than in single form cages, whereas the reverse was true for the S form, suggesting competition between the forms. The median developmental time was not significantly different between forms. Although these findings demonstrate differences between forms, they do not suggest that their spatial segregation is determined by differences in their exploitation of the physical and chemical conditions in these environments. These results should be regarded with caution because small numbers of first stage larvae could pass through the cloth of the cages.
16120394	In this paper, the main factors shaping codon usage in the mitochondrion genome of rice were reported. Correspondence analysis, a commonly used multivariate statistical approach, was carried out to analyze synonymous codon usage bias. The results showed that the main trend was strongly correlated with the gene expression level assessed by the 'Codon Adaptation Index' value, a result that was confirmed by the distribution of genes along the first axis. From the results that there were two significant correlations between axis 1 coordinates and the GC, GC3s content at silent sites of each sequence, and clearly significant correlations between the 'Effective Number of Codons' values and GC, GC3s content, we inferred that codon usage bias was affected by gene nucleotide composition also. In addition, the hydrophobicity of each protein also played some roles in shaping codon usage in this organelle, which could be confirmed by the significant correlation between the positions of genes placed on the first axis and the hydrophobicity value of each protein. In summary, natural selection played a crucial role, nucleotide mutational bias and amino acid composition only in a minor way, in shaping codon usage in the mitochondrion genome of rice. Notably, 21 codons defined firstly as 'optimal codons' might provide some more useful information for gene engineering and/or evolution studying.
16120585	By using restriction enzyme isoschizomers that differ in their sensitivity to methylation of their recognition sites, AFLP analysis is carried out to analyse differences of the methylation state of anonymous CCGG sequences between cold-treated(5 degrees for 2 d) and control 9311(Oryza sativa L.) leaves DNA. Demethylation or De novo methylation induced by cold stress are found in some CCGG sites. Some differentially-methylated encoding sequences are isolated, of which a fragment named CIDM7 (cold-inducing differential methylation) is sequenced and executed BLAST against Nipponbare cDNA data, thus we obtain its full length cDNA of 1422 bp encoding a hypothetical F-box protein(425 aa).CIDM7 is demethylated induced by cold stress. Northern blot analysis confirms that CIDM7 gene expression is up-regulated by cold stress. CIDM7 is single copy and lacated on the Nipponbare chromosome 10 (12.56 Mb-12.57 Mb).
16120586	Genetic correlations among brown rice rate, chalkiness grain rate, chalkiness area and AC, and correlations between these quality traits and plant height and panicle trait were analyzed using parental seeds of 3 x 3 NC II reciprocal mating and some F2 generation seeds by the genetic model given by Zhu Jun for the selection of japonica breeding progeny. The results showed that milled rice weight and brown rice rate are highly significant correlation with maternal additive effect. The genetic covariance between genetic effect components of quality traits and agronomy traits was not significant but that between quality and other plant traits was complicated.
16120591	Entropy-based divergence measures have provided an impelling tool in evaluating sequence complexity, predicting CpG island, and detecting borders between coding and non-coding DNA regions etc. In this paper, two new divergence measures: the alpha-KL divergence and the alpha-Jensen-Shannon divergence were defined and a coarse-graining vector of amino acids- corresponding codons was proposed according to codons GC-content, in order to improve the computational approach to finding borders between coding and non-coding in rice. A comparison of the accuracies gained by different vectors (the Jensen-Shannon divergence, the Jensen-Renyi divergence, the alpha-KL divergence and the alpha-Jensen -Shannon divergence) showed that recognition efficiency based on the new information measures with the vector coarse-graining increase by 4-5 times than that of Bernaola's method in the 'stop codon' of coding regions in rice.
16120594	It was reviewed here that the major advances of biological research on the cytoplasmic male sterility (cms) and its fertility restoration in plants in the past decade. It focused on the identification of the cms- associated regions in the plant mitochondrial genome and their expressing profile, the possible mechanisms of cms and of fertility restoration, the genetics and localization of the restorer genes and their molecular characteristics. Sequencing the mitochondrial genome in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice were completed and their bio-information and subsequent researching advances would greatly impelled the similar work in other plants.
16120685	Sieve tubes are comprised of sieve elements, enucleated cells that are incapable of RNA and protein synthesis. The proteins in sieve elements are supplied from the neighboring companion cells through plasmodesmata. In rice plants, it was unclear whether or not all proteins produced in companion cells had the same distribution pattern in the sieve element-companion cell complex. In this study, the distribution pattern of four proteins, beta-glucuronidase (GUS), green fluorescent protein (GFP), thioredoxin h (TRXh) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) were analyzed. The foreign proteins GUS and GFP were expressed in transgenic rice plants under the control of the TRXh gene promoter (PTRXh), a companion cell-specific promoter. Analysis of leaf cross-sections of PTRXh-GUS and PTRXh-GFP plants indicated high accumulation of GUS and GFP, respectively, in companion cells rather than in sieve elements. GUS and GFP were also detected in phloem sap collected from leaf sheaths of the transgenic rice plants, suggesting these proteins could enter sieve elements. Relative amounts of GFP and endogenous phloem proteins, TRXh and GST, in phloem sap and total leaf extracts were compared. Compared to TRXh and GST, GFP content was higher in total leaf extracts, but lower in phloem sap, suggesting that GFP accumulated mainly in companion cells rather than in sieve elements. On the other hand, TRXh and GST appeared to accumulate in sieve elements rather than in companion cells. These results indicate the evidence for differential distribution of proteins between sieve elements and companion cells in rice plants.
16120687	In rice roots, transient and cell-type-specific accumulation of both mRNA and protein for NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT) occurs after the supply of NH(4) (+) ions. In order to better understand the origin of 2-oxoglutarate for this reaction, we focused on mitochondrial NAD-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) and glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) in rice roots. Six rice cDNAs encoding a single catalytic (OsIDHa) and two regulatory (OsIDHc;1, OsIDHc;2) IDH subunits and three GDH proteins (OsGDH1-3) were isolated. These genes, except OsGDH3, were expressed in the roots. Real-time PCR analysis showed that OsIDHa and OsIDHc;1 transcripts, but not OsGDH1 and OsGDH2 transcripts, accumulated in a similar manner to NADH-GOGAT mRNA along the crown roots after the supply of different forms of inorganic nitrogen. Furthermore, immunolocalization studies revealed the NH(4) (+) induction of IDHa protein in two cell layers of the root surface, i.e. epidermis and exodermis, where NADH-GOGAT also accumulated. The possible relationship between NADH-GOGAT, IDH and GDH is discussed.
16120688	An increase in atmospheric CO(2) concentration ([CO(2)]) is generally expected to enhance photosynthesis and biomass. Rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) were grown in ambient CO(2) (AMB) or free-air CO(2)-enrichment (FACE), in which the target [CO(2)] was 200 micromol mol(-1) above AMB. (13)CO(2) was fed to the plants at different stages so we could examine the partitioning of photosynthates. Furthermore, canopy photosynthesis and respiration were measured at those stages. The ratio of (13)C content in the whole plant to the amount of fixed (13)C under FACE was similar to that under AMB at the vegetative stage. However, the ratio under FACE was greater than the ratio under AMB at the grain-filling stage. At the vegetative stage, plants grown under FACE had a larger biomass than those grown under AMB owing to enhancement of canopy photosynthesis by the increased [CO(2)]. On the other hand, at the grain-filling stage, CO(2) enrichment promoted the partitioning of photosynthate to ears, and plants grown under FACE had a greater weight of ears. However, enhancement of ear weight by CO(2) enrichment was not as great as that of biomass at the vegetative stage. Plants grown under FACE did not necessarily show higher canopy photosynthetic rates at the grain-filling stage. Therefore, we concluded that the ear weight did not increase as much as biomass at the vegetative stage owing to a loss of the advantage in CO(2) gain during the grain-filling period.
16121011	"On-panicle seed sprouting" is a serious obstacle in hybrid rice seed production. It was reported that exogenous ABA inhibited seed sprouting of hybrid rice F(1) seeds. It was shown that by ABA 1000 mg/L or MH 4000 mg/L application at 21 d after full heading (filling stage)(Fig.1), not only seed sprouting was inhibited, but also the seed energy was affected (Fig.2). The retardation of germination and lowing of germination rate were resulted from ABA treatment and MH treatment respectively (Fig.3). When the seeds were treated with ABA, GA(1) level was decreased (Fig.4). The expression of amylase was delayed and their levels become lowed by ABA treatment (Fig.5). However, those seeds maintained a certain level of GA(1) and amylase and still have germination ability. During germination, the GA(1) content and amylase activity did not decrease significantly by MH treatment, but the GA(1) content and amylase activity were significantly decreased in non-germination MH treated seeds (Fig.4, 5). Therefore, the sprouting retarding effects of ABA was considered as "post-harvest effects" and sprouting inhibiting effect of MH was considered as "inhibition effects" by the authors.
16122543	The novel biosorbent rice bran has been successfully utilized for the removal of Cr(VI) from wastewater. The maximum removal of Cr(VI) was found to be 99.4% at pH 2.0, initial Cr(VI) concentration of 200 mg l(-1), and temperature 20 degrees C. The effect of different parameters such as contact time, adsorbate concentration, pH of the medium, and temperature was investigated. The adsorption kinetics was tested for first-order reversible, pseudo-first-order, and pseudo-second-order; reaction and the rate constants of kinetic models were calculated. Mass transfer of Cr(VI) from the bulk to the solid phase (rice bran) was studied at different temperatures. Different thermodynamic parameters, viz., changes in standard free energy, enthalpy, and entropy, have also been evaluated and it has been found that the reaction was spontaneous and endothermic in nature. The Langmuir and Freundlich equations for describing adsorption equilibrium were applied to data. The constants and correlation coefficients of these isotherm models were calculated and compared. Desorption studies was also carried out and found that complete desorption of Cr(VI) took place at pH of 9.5. The data were also subjected to multiple regression analysis and a model was developed to predict the removal of Cr(VI) from wastewater.
16122801	Indian jujube (Zizyphus mauritiana) is a sweet fruit that is abundantly cultivated in Taiwan. We have previously identified 42 and 30 kDa allergens that are cross-reactive with latex allergen from crude Indian jujube extract. This study aimed to clone the 30 kDa Ziz m 1 Z. mauritiana allergen. The Ziz m 1 encoding cDNA was isolated from a ZAPII cDNA library constructed from Z. mauritiana mRNA, sequenced and expressed in Pichia pastoris. The protein predicted from the cDNA sequence has 330 amino acids, the first 25 of which constituted a putative signal peptide. The deduced molecular mass of the mature protein is 33.86 kDa, while its isoelectric point is estimated at 4.36. The recombinant Ziz m 1 showed chitinase activity, possessed IgE binding capacity, and had IgE cross-reactivity with the latex allergen. Moreover, anti-recombinant Ziz m 1 antibody-based ELISA was able to detect commercial skin testing latex reagent, laboratory prepared latex and Indian jujube extracts. Recombinant Ziz m 1 showed 87.5% skin reactivities on eight latex- and Indian jujube-sensitive subjects. Although no sequence similarity was found to other known allergens, Ziz m 1 was found to have amino acid sequence identity (39-45.3%) to many plant chitinases including chitinase (45.2%) of Hevea brasiliensis (hevamine), class III chitinases of Vigna angularis (45.3%), Capsicum annuum (44.7%) and Oryza sativa (41.2%). A conserved domain search revealed that Ziz m 1 belongs to the family 18 glycosyl hydrolases. The recombinant allergen may therefore be of value for diagnosis and therapeutic purposes, and the further characterization of Indian jujube allergen may help to elucidate the mechanism underlying latex-fruit syndrome.
16124284	Ingestion of drinking water is not the only elevated source of arsenic to the diet in the Bengal Delta. Even at background levels, the arsenic in rice contributes considerably to arsenic ingestion in subsistence rice diets. We set out to survey As speciation in different rice varieties from different parts of the globe to understand the contribution of rice to arsenic exposure. Pot experiments were utilized to ascertain whether growing rice on As contaminated soil affected speciation and whether genetic variation accounted for uptake and speciation. USA long grain rice had the highest mean arsenic level in the grain at 0.26 microg As g(-1) (n = 7), and the highest grain arsenic value of the survey at 0.40 microg As g(-1). The mean arsenic level of Bangladeshi rice was 0.13 microg As g(-1) (n = 15). The main As species detected in the rice extract were AsIII, DMAV, and AsV. In European, Bangladeshi, and Indian rice 64 +/- 1% (n = 7), 80 +/- 3% (n = 11), and 81 +/- 4% (n = 15), respectively, of the recovered arsenic was found to be inorganic. In contrast, DMAV was the predominant species in rice from the USA, with only 42 +/- 5% (n = 12) of the arsenic being inorganic. Pot experiments show that the proportions of DMAV in the grain are significantly dependent on rice cultivar (p = 0.026) and that plant nutrient status is effected by arsenic exposure.
16124463	To investigate the effect of different urea incorporation amount in different soils on CH4 emission, a pot experiment was carried in 2002. Four treatments were designed as the control (without urea incorporation); low N fertilizer level (0.64 g urea/pot); middle N fertilizer level (1.28 g urea/pot); high N fertilizer level (1.93 g urea/pot). During rice growing season, incorporation of urea into different soils yielded different influence on CH4 emission. Without urea incorporation, significance differences existed among CH4 emission flux of three soils, with the values of 6.7 g/m2, 12.6 g/m2 and 8.3 g/m2, respectively. Incorporation of urea reduced considerably CH4 emission of three soils. A further investigation indicate that CH4 emission of three soils largely decreased and three soils NH4(+)-N content obviously increased from low N fertilizer level to middle N fertilizer level. It concluded that soil NH4(+)-N content is a key influence factor on CH4 emission after incorporation of urea into soils. From middle N level to high N level, CH4 emision of soil G (Lianshui, Jiangsu) and H (Jiangsu Academy of agricultural sciences) reduced, while CH4 emission of soil F (Lishui, Jiangsu) had no obvious significance with the value of 3.0 g/m2 and 3.4 g/m2.
16124561	A multi-residue analytical method for the simultaneous determination of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in rice samples was developed. POPs were extracted from rice with ethyl acetate/n-hexane (80:20, v/v) by sonication, and determined by gas chromatography with electron impact mass spectrometric detection in the selected ion monitoring mode. A fused silica capillary column DB-35MS (30 m x 0.25 mm i.d. x 0.25 microm) was employed. Operating conditions were as follows: injector port temperature, 300 degrees C; column temperature, programming; carrier gas, helium; flow rate, 1.0 mL/min; sample size, 1 microL with splitless injection. The mass spectrometric detector (MSD) was operated in electron impact ionization mode with an ionizing energy of 70 eV. Analysis was performed with selected ion monitoring (SIM) using one target and one or two qualifier ion. POPs were confirmed by their retention times, their qualifier and target ions, and their qualifier/target abundance ratios. Recovery studies were performed at 0.05, 0.1, and 0.5 mg/L spiked levels of each POPs, and the recoveries obtained ranged from 81.99% to 100.60% with relative standard deviations between 2.37% and 18.48%. The detection limits of the method ranged from 0.1 to 5 ng/g for the different POPs except endrin, trans-chlordane and cis-chlordane. The results show that the method developed is sensitive and reliable.
16126338	The sorption potential of chemically and thermally treated rice husk (RHT) for the removal of 2,4-dichlorophenol (DCP) from aqueous solutions has been investigated. Sorption of DCP by rice husk was observed over a wide pH range of 1-10. The effect of contact time between liquid and solid phases, sorbent dose, pH, concentration of sorbate and temperature on the sorption of DCP onto rice husk has been studied. The pore area and average pore diameter of RHT by BET method are calculated to be 17+/-0.6 m2g-1 and 51.3+/-1.5 nm, respectively. Maximum sorption (98+/-1.2%) was achieved for RHT from 6.1x10(-5) moldm(-3) of sorbate solution using 0.1g of rice husk for 10 min agitation time at pH 6 and 303K, which is comparable to activated carbon commercial (ACC) 96.6+/-1.2%, but significantly higher than chemically treated rice husk (RHCT) 65+/-1.6% and rice husk untreated (RHUT) 41+/-2.3%. The sorption data obtained at optimized conditions was subjected to Freundlich, Langmuir and Dubinin-Radushkevich (D-R) isotherms. Sorption intensity 1/n (0.31+/-0.01) and sorption capacity multilayer C(m) (12.0+/-1.6 mmolg(-1)) have been evaluated using Freundlich sorption isotherm, whereas the values of sorption capacity monolayer Q (0.96+/-0.03 mmolg(-1)) and binding energy, b, (4.5+/-1.0)x10(4)dm(3)mol(-1) have been estimated by Langmuir isotherm. The Langmuir constant, b, was also used to calculate the dimensionless factor, R(L), in the concentration range (0.6-6.1)x10(-4) moldm(-3), suggesting greater sorption at low concentration. D-R sorption isotherm was employed to calculate sorption capacity X(m) (2.5+/-0.07 mmolg(-1)) and sorption energy E (14.7+/-0.13 kJmol(-1)). Lagergren and Morris-Weber equations were employed to study kinetics of sorption process using 0.2g of RHT, 25 cm(3) of 0.61x10(-4)moldm(-3) sorbate concentration at pH 6, giving values of first-order rate constant, k, and rate constant of intraparticle transport, R(id), (0.48+/-0.04 min(-1) and 6.8+/-0.8 nmolg(-1)min(-1/2), respectively) at 0.61x10(-4)moldm(-3) solution concentration of DCP, 0.1g RHT, pH 6 and 2-10min of agitation time. For thermodynamic studies, sorption potential was examined over temperature range 283-323 K by employing 6.1x10(-4)moldm(-3) solution concentration of DCP, 0.1g RHT at pH 6 and 10 min of agitation time and values of DeltaH (-25+/-1 kJmol(-1)), DeltaS (-61+/-4 Jmol(-1)K(-1)) and DeltaG(303K) (-7.1+/-0.09 kJmol(-1)) were computed. The negative values of enthalpy, entropy, and free energy suggest that the sorption is exothermic, stable, and spontaneous in nature.
16126683	A total of 248 arbitrary 10-mer oligonucleotide primers were screened using RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) techniques with the genome DNA of three groups of three-line hybrid rice and their parents. Thirteen primers produced 43 polymorphism fragments. Six primers of them produced 20 obviously repeatable polymorphic markers among rice lines tested. Using this RAPD markers,the hybrid rice combinations (sterile-line, maintainer-line, restorer-line and F1) can be effectively identified, and the genetic relationship among them can be shown.
16126697	Several techniques are available in detecting variations in gene expression between different samples, such as SSH, RACE, etc. However, they can not be applied to analyze mitochondrial gene expression due to the specific characteristics of mitochondrial RNA. So some modifications were made to the conventional techniques. Here we reported a demonstration of this modified technique, taking rice mitochondria as materials. In this technique, using random hexamers to prime the RT, the resultant cDNA likely included coding regions because it was not locked to the poly(A) tail of the messenger RNA.
16126853	Entry into the S phase of the cell cycle is controlled by E2F transcription factors that induce the transcription of genes required for cell cycle progression and DNA replication. Although the E2F pathway is highly conserved in higher eukaryotes, only a few E2F target genes have been experimentally validated in plants. We have combined microarray analysis and bioinformatics tools to identify plant E2F-responsive genes. Promoter regions of genes that were induced at the transcriptional level in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings ectopically expressing genes for the E2Fa and DPa transcription factors were searched for the presence of E2F-binding sites, resulting in the identification of 181 putative E2F target genes. In most cases, the E2F-binding element was located close to the transcription start site, but occasionally could also be localized in the 5' untranslated region. Comparison of our results with available microarray data sets from synchronized cell suspensions revealed that the E2F target genes were expressed almost exclusively during G1 and S phases and activated upon reentry of quiescent cells into the cell cycle. To test the robustness of the data for the Arabidopsis E2F target genes, we also searched for the presence of E2F-cis-acting elements in the promoters of the putative orthologous rice (Oryza sativa) genes. Using this approach, we identified 70 potential conserved plant E2F target genes. These genes encode proteins involved in cell cycle regulation, DNA replication, and chromatin dynamics. In addition, we identified several genes for potentially novel S phase regulatory proteins.
16126864	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are two types of noncoding RNAs involved in developmental regulation, genome maintenance, and defense in eukaryotes. The activity of Dicer or Dicer-like (DCL) proteins is required for the maturation of miRNAs and siRNAs. In this study, we cloned and sequenced 66 candidate rice (Oryza sativa) miRNAs out of 1,650 small RNA sequences (19 to approximately 25 nt), and they could be further grouped into 21 families, 12 of which are newly identified and three of which, OsmiR528, OsmiR529, and OsmiR530, have been confirmed by northern blot. To study the function of rice DCL proteins (OsDCLs) in the biogenesis of miRNAs and siRNAs, we searched genome databases and identified four OsDCLs. An RNA interference approach was applied to knock down two OsDCLs, OsDCL1 and OsDCL4, respectively. Strong loss of function of OsDCL1IR transformants that expressed inverted repeats of OsDCL1 resulted in developmental arrest at the seedling stage, and weak loss of function of OsDCL1IR transformants caused pleiotropic developmental defects. Moreover, all miRNAs tested were greatly reduced in OsDCL1IR but not OsDCL4IR transformants, indicating that OsDCL1 plays a critical role in miRNA processing in rice. In contrast, the production of siRNA from transgenic inverted repeats and endogenous CentO regions were not affected in either OsDCL1IR or OsDCL4IR transformants, suggesting that the production of miRNAs and siRNAs is via distinct OsDCLs.
16127237	We wished to determine the validity of the association between serum carotenoid concentrations and dietary habits obtained from a food frequency questionnaire in the Japan Collaborative Cohort Study (JACC Study) for Evaluation of Cancer Risk sponsored by the Ministry of Education, Science, Sports and Culture of Japan (Monbusho). The subjects were 866 male and 569 female controls in nested case-control studies for evaluating the risk of lung, colorectal, and urothelial cancers as parts of the JACC Study. Dietary habits were assessed using a food frequency questionnaire, and serum samples were obtained at baseline. Serum carotenoid concentrations of frozen-stored sera were measured and compared with the results of the survey. In males, consumption of dairy products, some oily foods, vegetables, fruits, and boiled beans correlated positively with serum carotenoid concentrations, whereas ingestion of boiled rice and sansai (edible wild plants) was negatively correlated with serum carotenoids. In females, only fruit consumption was positively correlated with serum carotenoid concentration, whereas ingestion of butter, sansai, and potatoes were negatively correlated. Some specific associations, between serum lycopene and tomato consumption and between serum beta-cryptoxanthin and ingestion of oranges, were observed in both sexes. In males, serum carotenoid concentrations were slightly associated with intake of foods rich in carotenoids. The lack of associations in females suggests that the food frequency questionnaire did not validly evaluate females' dietary habits concerning carotenoids in the JACC Study.
16128745	The amount of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG) excreted in urine can be used not only as an indicator of DNA repair capacity, but also as a potential marker of oxidative DNA damage. To clarify the oxidation-related factors, in consideration of cancer risk, this study investigated how urinary 8-OH-dG was associated with occupational and lifestyle factors in 372 healthy workers. The creatinine-adjusted urinary 8-OH-dG level was significantly higher in male subjects, smokers and drinkers compared with their counterparts. There were significant positive correlations of the 8-OH-dG level with average number of working hours, involvement in work, average number of cigarettes smoked, average volume of alcohol consumed and serum cortisol level, and there were significant negative correlations of the 8-OH-dG level with body mass index (BMI) and consumption of soybean products, rice and light-colored vegetables. Multiple regression analysis showed that average number of working hours and average number of cigarettes smoked were significant predictors of increased 8-OH-dG levels, whereas being female and BMI were significant predictors of decreased 8-OH-dG levels. Working hours, BMI and smoking were significant predictors of urinary 8-OH-dG in male subjects, whereas age and BMI were significant predictors in female subjects. We suggest that several occupational and lifestyle factors, particularly long working hours and cigarette smoking, are linked to the formation of 8-OH-dG in workers.
16130659	The triacylglycerol (TAG) profiles present in real world lipidic samples are usually quite complex and, as such, monodimensional high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) techniques are inadequate when challenged with such matrices. In this respect, the complementary use of silver-ion (Ag) and non-aqueous (NA) reversed-phase (RP) HPLC can be exploited if thorough TAG separations are required. The present investigation reports the employment of a newly developed comprehensive LC (LC x LC) system, based on the different separation mechanisms of the aforementioned techniques, and applied to a rice oil sample. The approach was successful in the separation of a high number of solutes, otherwise unachievable through monodimensional LC. Furthermore, the use of atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (APCI-MS), as detection system, provided a third analytical dimension boosting the identification power of the comprehensive chromatographic method.
16131102	Quality assurance is a major issue in the food industry. The authenticity of food ingredients and their traceability are required by consumers and authorities. Plant species such as barley (Hordeum vulgare), rice (Oryza sativa), sunflower (Helianthus annuus), and wheat (Triticum aestivum) are very common among the ingredients of many processed food products; therefore the development of specific assays for their specific detection and quantification are needed. Furthermore, the production and trade of genetically modified lines from an increasing number of plant species brings about the need for control within research, environmental risk assessment, labeling/legal, and consumers' information purposes. We report here the development of four independent real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays suitable for identification and quantification of four plant species (barley, rice, sunflower, and wheat). These assays target gamma-hordein, gos9, helianthinin, and acetyl-CoA carboxylase sequences, respectively, and were able to specifically detect and quantify DNA from the target plant species. In addition, the simultaneous amplification of RALyase allowed bread from durum wheat to be distinguished. Limits of detection were 1 genome copy for barley, sunflower, and wheat and 3.3 copies for rice real-time PCR systems, whereas limits of quantification were 10 genome copies for barley, sunflower, or wheat and approximately 100 haploid genomes for rice real-time PCR systems. Real-time PCR cycling conditions of the four assays were stated as standard to facilitate their use in routine laboratory analyses. The assays were finally adapted to conventional PCR for detection purposes, with the exception of the wheat assay, which detects rye simultaneously with similar sensitivity in an agarose gel.
16131127	Penoxsulam (trade name Granite) is a new acetolactate synthase (ALS) inhibitor herbicide for postemergence control of annual grasses, sedges, and broadleaf weeds in rice culture. This study was done to understand the equilibrium phase partitioning of penoxsulam to soil and air under conditions simulating California rice field conditions. Partitioning of penoxsulam was determined between soil and water (Kd) by the batch equilibrium method and between air and water (K(H)) by the gas-purge method. In four representative soils from the Sacramento Valley, the Kd values ranged from 0.14 to 5.05 and displayed a modest increase with soil pH. In soil amended with manure compost, soil sorption increased 4-fold with increasing soil organic matter content, but was still low with a Kd of 0.4 in samples with high organic carbon contents of 15%. Penoxsulam was confirmed to be extremely nonvolatile and did not partition into air at any measurable rate at 20 or 40 degrees C. K(H) (pH 7) was estimated at 4.6 x 10(-15) Pa x L x mol(-1) on the basis of available water solubility and vapor pressure data. The results imply that soil and air partitioning of penoxsulam do not significantly affect its potential for degradation or offsite movement in water.
16131408	The treatment of plural morphemes in English noun-noun compounds is significant because it provides a test case for competing theories of language acquisition and representation. Even when the first noun in a compound refers to plural items, native speakers frequently use the singular form (Murphy, 2000). Sometimes, they will use the irregular plural form ('mice chaser') but very rarely are regular plurals ('rats chaser') used as the first noun in a compound. This effect has been found with native English-speaking children (Gordon, 1985; Nicoladis, 2000; Oetting & Rice, 1993; van der Lely & Christian, 2000); native English-speaking teenagers (van der Lely & Christian, 2000); and native English-speaking adults (Lardiere & Schwartz, 1997; Murphy, 2000). The apparent dissociation between regular and irregular plurals (i.e.that irregular plurals are included before a second noun but regular plurals are almost never included before a second noun) is thought to be due to innate morphological constraints (Marcus, Brinkmann, Clahsen, Weise, & Pinker, 1995). Such constraints predict that all items of regular morphology should be treated differently from all items of irregular morphology by language users in all situations. However, if external factors such as input and response modality affect the number of plurals included in compounds, then this questions the internal constraint-based explanations of compounding and encourages investigation of how external factors might influence the number of plurals included in compounds.
16131505	A new locus responsible for increased yield potential across the genetic background in rice (Oryza sativa L.) was identified and evaluated. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were analysed for the ratio of filled grains, a yield component, in backcrossed inbred lines of a japonica 'Nipponbare'xindica 'Kasalath' cross for 3 years. Only one QTL (rg5), with a positive Kasalath allele, was detected across environments (years). The physiological functions of rg5 were clarified in a near-isogenic line (NILrg5) with a Kasalath chromosome segment containing rg5 in a Nipponbare genetic background. In NILrg5, carbohydrate storage capacity before heading or sink activity in the first or last stages of the reproductive phase was significantly higher than in Nipponbare (control). The ratio of filled grains and yield per plant were significantly higher in NILrg5 than in Nipponbare, by 5% (P <0.01) and 15% (P <0.05), respectively. These results suggest that rg5 improves carbohydrate storage capacity and keeps sink activity higher in the reproductive stage, and consequently increases yield potential. Greater capacity to accumulate carbohydrate is the main target for increasing rice yield potential; therefore, rg5 might function under other genetic backgrounds. Substitution of the rice cv. Kasalath chromosome segment containing rg5 gave higher yield potential in the top premium rice cv. Koshihikari. These results suggest that rg5 might be able to affect yield under different genetic backgrounds, and physiological analyses of the targeted locus might reveal these effects.
16132208	Jasmonate signaling pathway plays an important role in induced plant defense against herbivores and pathogens, including the emission of volatiles that serve as attractants for natural enemies of herbivores. We studied the volatiles emitted from rice plants that were wounded and treated with jasmonic acid (JA) and their effects on the host-searching behavior of the rice brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stål), and its mymarid egg parasitoid Anagrus nilaparvatae Pang et Wang. Female adults of N. lugens significantly preferred to settle on JA-treated rice plants immediately after release. The parasitoid A. nilaparvatae showed a similar preference and was more attracted to the volatiles emitted from JA-treated rice plants than to volatiles from control plants. This was also evident from greenhouse and field experiments in which parasitism of N. lugens eggs by A. nilaparvatae on plants that were surrounded by JA-treated plants was more than twofold higher than on control plants. Analyses of volatiles collected from rice plants showed that JA treatment dramatically increased the release of volatiles, which included aliphatic aldehydes and alcohols, monoterpenes, sesquiterpenes, methyl salicylate, n-heptadecane, and several as yet unidentified compounds. These results confirm an involvement of the JA pathway in induced defense in rice plants and demonstrate that the egg parasitoid A. nilaparvatae exploits plant-provided cues to locate hosts. We explain the use of induced plant volatiles by the egg parasitoid by a reliable association between planthopper feeding damage and egg presence.
16132843	1-Deoxy-D-: xylulose-5-phosphate synthase (DXS) encoded by a multigene family in plants, catalyzes the first step in the methylerythritol 4-phosphate (MEP) pathway. Three rice DXS-related sequences (OsDXS) were identified from available rice databases. The open reading frame of three OsDXS genes (dxs1, dxs2, and dxs3) were amplified against cDNA template. Ratio of their transcript levels in etiolated rice leaf was 9:181:1. While the expression levels were not changed along the growth stages of etiolated culture, UV-irradiation of the etiolated rice induced the expression of dxs3 up to nine-fold compared with that of unirradiated control. In the case of light-illumination, the relative expression of dxs1 based on unilluminated control increased two-fold. The differential expression of three OsDXS genes suggested their distinct and complementary roles in the control of the first step of the MEP pathway in response to environmental stimuli.
16133169	The naturally occurring waxy and low-amylose variants of foxtail millet and other cereals, like rice and barley, originated in East and Southeast Asia under human selection for sticky foods. Mutations in the GBSS1 gene for granule-bound starch synthase 1 are known to be associated with these traits. We have analyzed the gene in foxtail millet, and found that, in this species, these traits were originated by multiple independent insertions of transposable elements and by subsequent secondary insertions into these elements or deletion of parts of the elements. The structural analysis of transposable elements inserted in the GBSS1 gene revealed that the non-waxy was converted to the low-amylose phenotype once, while shifts from non-waxy to waxy occurred three times, from low amylose to waxy once and from waxy to low amylose once. The present results, and the geographical distribution of different waxy molecular types, strongly suggest that these types originated independently and were dispersed into their current distribution areas. The patterns of GBSS1 variation revealed here suggest that foxtail millet may serve as a key to solving the mystery of the origin of waxy-type cereals in Asia. The GBSS1 gene in foxtail millet provides a new example of the evolution of a gene involved in the processes of domestication and its post-domestication fate under the influence of human selection.
16133303	Wide-compatibility (WC) is one of the most important traits in rice, which can overcome the fertility barrier in the indica/japonica hybrids, and hence to make it possible to utilize the higher yield potential of inter-subspecific hybrids. The S5n gene located on chromosome 6 has been previously reported to be responsible for the wide-compatibility in rice. Here we report the precise location of the S5n gene. In the first-pass mapping, the S5n gene was restricted within a 200 kb region by using a population of 242 isogenic lines in combination with high-density markers developed in the S5 region. In the fine mapping, the S5 region was further saturated with newly developed markers and more isogenic lines (549 in total) were investigated. Eventually, the S5n gene was mapped within a 50 kb region delimited by the left marker J13 and the right marker J17. One BAC clone screened from the BAC library of the WC rice variety 02428 covered the whole S5 region. Sequence analysis of the 50 kb region revealed two candidate genes, coding an aspartyl protease and a hypothetical protein. This result would greatly accelerate both cloning and marker-assisted selection of this important S5n gene.
16133310	DNA variation in the alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh2) region of the wild rice Oryza rufipogon and its related species was analyzed to clarify maintenance mechanisms of the DNA variation in these species. A dimorphic pattern was detected in the Adh2 region of O. rufipogon. The silent nucleotide diversity (pi) in the Adh2 region in O. rufipogon was 0.011, which was higher than that of the Adh1 region in O. rufipogon. Especially, a high nucleotide diversity was detected at synonymous sites of the catalytic domain 1. Average nucleotide diversity at silent sites within each of the dimorphic sequence types of the Adh2 region was similar to that in the Adh1 region, indicating that the high level of silent polymorphism in the Adh2 region was caused by the difference between the dimorphic sequence types. On the other hand, the level of replacement polymorphism in the Adh2 region was as low as that in the Adh1 region. The neutrality test of Fu and Li indicated significantly negative deviation from the neutral mutation model for the replacement sites of the Adh2 region. This result suggests purifying selection on the replacement sites of the Adh2 region, as detected for the Adh1 region. Significant linkage disequilibria (16.4% of the tests) were detected between the Adh1 and Adh2 regions. Even when nonrandom association was tested for the strains belonging to one of the divergent sequence types of the Adh2 region, significant interlocus linkage disequilibria were detected. The close physical distance and/or epistasis between the two Adh regions could be invoked to explain these nonrandom associations.
16133314	The application of genetic male sterility in hybrid rice production has great potential to revolutionize hybrid seed production methodology. The two-line breeding system by using thermo-sensitive genic male sterility (TGMS) has been discovered and successfully developed as a breeding strategy in rice. One TGMS gene was investigated by a spontaneous rice mutant line, Sokcho-MS, originated from a Korean japonica variety. It was shown that Sokcho-MS is completely sterile at a temperature higher than 27 degrees C and/or lower than 25 degrees C during the development of spikelets, but fertile at the temperature ranging from 25 to 27 degrees C regardless of the levels of day-length. Genetic analysis and molecular mapping based on SSR, STS and EST markers revealed that a single recessive gene locus involved the control of genic male sterility in Sokcho-MS. By using an F2 mapping population derived from a cross between Sokcho-MS and a fertile indica variety Neda, the new TGMS gene, designated as tms6, was mapped primarily to the long arm of chromosome 5 of Oryza sativa at the interval between markers E60663 (2.0 cM) and RM440 (5.8 cM). Subsequently, tms6 was fine mapped to the interval between markers RM3351 (0.1 cM) and E60663 (1.9 cM). As tms6 appeared to be independent of other mapped TGMS genes in rice, the genetic basis of Sokcho-MS was further discussed.
16133316	Gray leaf spot (GLS) is a serious fungal disease caused by Magnaporthe grisea, recently reported on perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), an important turf grass and forage species. This fungus also causes rice blast and many other grass diseases. Rice blast is usually controlled by host resistance, but durability of resistance is a problem. Little GLS resistance has been reported in perennial ryegrass. However, greenhouse inoculations in our lab using one ryegrass isolate and one rice-infecting lab strain suggest presence of partial resistance. A high density linkage map of a three generation Italian x perennial ryegrass mapping population was used to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) for GLS resistance. Potential QTL of varying effect were detected on four linkage groups, and resistance to the ryegrass isolate and the lab strain appeared to be controlled by different QTL. Of three potential QTL detected using the ryegrass isolate, the one with strongest effect for resistance was located on linkage group 3 of the MFB parent, explaining between 20% and 37% of the phenotypic variance depending on experiment. Another QTL was detected on linkage group 6 of the MFA parent, explaining between 5% and 10% of the phenotypic variance. The two QTL with strongest effect for resistance to the lab strain were located on linkage groups MFA 2 and MFB 4, each explaining about 10% of the phenotypic variance. Further, the QTL on linkage groups 3 and 4 appear syntenic to blast resistance loci in rice. This work will likely benefit users and growers of perennial ryegrass, by setting the stage for improvement of GLS resistance in perennial ryegrass through marker-assisted selection.
16134895	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice. We demonstrated earlier that the type II secretion system (T2S) is important for virulence of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and that several proteins, including a xylanase, are secreted through this system. In this study, the xynB gene encoding for the secreted xylanase was cloned as a 6.9-kb EcoRI fragment (pRR7) that also included a paralog called xynA. As in X. oryzae pv. oryzae, xynA and xynB are adjacent to each other in X. axonopodis pv. citri, whereas only the xynA homolog is present in X. campestris pv. campestris. Mutations in xynB but not xynA affect secreted xylanase activity. Western blot analysis using anti-XynB antibodies on exudates from infected rice leaves indicated that this xylanase is expressed during in planta growth. Another T2S-secreted protein was identified to be a lipase/esterase (LipA) based on the sequence tags obtained by tandem mass spectrometry analysis and biochemical assays. Mutations in either xynB or lipA partially affected virulence. However, a lipA-xynB double mutant was significantly reduced for virulence, and the pRR7 clone containing an intact xynB gene could complement the virulence-deficient phenotype of the lipA-xynB mutant. Our results suggest that there is functional redundancy among the T2S secreted proteins of X. oryzae pv. oryzae in promoting virulence on rice.
16135424	The inheritance and utilization of a stable large-grain mutant,selected from the induced generation derived from japonica Nongkeng 58 after space treatment carried by recoverable satellite, were analyzed. The results indicated that the grain volume of the large-grain mutant was quantitative trait controlled by multiple genes. The large-grain mutant had characteristics of slender grain,favorable scent, high apparent grain quality and good compatibility with japonica,and can be used as a valuable resource for improving grain quality. When high yield japonica variety with bad looking quality was used as a recurrent parent to cross with the mutant and a procedure of a limited backcross combined with identification of brown rice quality in segregation generations was applied,some japonica lines with good looking quality were developed. The utility of the limited backcross method for improvement of quantitative traits was discussed.
16135425	In order to inquire into the influences of space conditions on rice breeding,the dry seeds of 12 rice varieties were carried by recoverable satellite. After recovery,these seeds were showed in the yield, the inheritance and variation of the characters of their progenies were observed and analysed. The results showed that the characters of the progenies mutated under space conditions segregated and varied in many aspects and directions,and the segregated and varied characters were heritable. These progenies posoessed significant transgressive inheritance, a plenty of variation types and variation was characterized by short breeding period. The results in this study indicated that space technology breeding could be developed and used as a new method of mutation breeding.
16135426	The polymorphisms were analyzed in 15 semilate indica parental materials with AFLPs. The genetic distances between parental materials were small with an average of 0.2033, ranged from 0.0589 to 0.3913. Fifteen parental materials were classified into two groups,cytoplasmic male-sterile lineIand restorer line II. The latter were classified into two subgroups, II-1 and II-2. SubgroupII-2 was consanguinity with Minghui63. The genetic distances between male-sterile line and two restorer line subgroups(II-1 and II-2) did not show significant difference, indicating that the genetic bases of restorer lines were similar,which maybe one of major reasons for the yield still not surpassing Shanyou63 in indica hybrid rice presently. To increase the heterosis of hybrid rice, we must enrich the genetic diversity and expand the genetic differences between parental lines.
16136336	Erwinia amylovora is a member of the harpin proteins that induces pathogen resistance and hypersensitive cell death in plants. To obtain tobacco plants displaying a hypersensitive response, the hrpN gene from Erwinia amylovora was cloned into vector pMJC-GB under the control of the rice cytochrome promoter and transfected into tobacco. Southern hybridization with a hrpN probe revealed that the gene was present in one copy in the transgenic plants. In addition, hrpN transcripts could be detected in transgenic plants but not in wild-type tobacco. The wild type gave 75 products in RAPD analysis with 12 primers while the transgenic plants gave 73, suggesting that hrpN gene had been integrated into the transgenic plant genomic DNA. The distribution of cell cycle phases in the wild type and transgenic plants was G0-G1: 71.25%, G2-M: 20.41%, S: 8.33%, while in transgenic plant was G0-G1: 54.95%, G2-M: 43.82%, S: 10.23%. The sizes of stomata and guard cells on transgenic leaves were similar to those of the wild type, but the epidermal cells were clearly smaller. The transgenic plants showed accelerated growth and development as well as enhanced resistance to Botrytis cinerea.
16136361	Suppression subtractive hybridization was used to construct a subtracted library (ogfw) from plants of a wild rice species, Oryza grandiglumis, subjected to a fungal elicitor and physical wounding. To screen the differentially expressed transcripts in the library, we applied a reverse Northern blot analysis to a cDNA microarray containing 1,152 random clones. Based on the average expression ratio, we selected 156 clones showing an elevated expression level. The elevated expression levels and overall expression profiles over time were verified by Northern blot analysis. A comparative functional categorization of the subtracted expressed sequence tags (ESTs) of the ogfw library against ESTs isolated from blast-infected O. sativa showed that the functional categories of cell rescue, defense and virulence, transcription, and cellular transport and transport mechanism of the ogfw library were threefold higher in the former than in the latter. These subtracted ESTs can be presumed to be related to the defense/resistance system and will be used to investigate the defense mechanisms of wild rice and to provide new insights into the genome of wild rice, which in turn will assist molecular breeding strategies of cultivated rice.
16139905	Auxin regulates many aspects of plant growth and development by altering the expression of diverse genes. Among these, the early auxin-responsive genes of Aux/IAA class have been extensively studied in dicots but little information is available on monocots. Earlier, we reported the isolation of OsiIAA1 cDNA, first monocot member of Aux/IAA gene family from rice. Extending this work further, we have isolated the OsiIAA1 gene from rice localized on chromosome 3. The transcriptional start site was mapped to 158 bp upstream to the translational start site. The increased accumulation of OsiIAA1 transcript in auxin-treated rice coleoptiles even in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, suggested that OsiIAA1 is a primary auxin response gene; the expression of OsiIAA1 gene was also upregulated in the presence of cycloheximide alone. The OsiIAA1 transcript levels were down-regulated in etiolated rice coleoptiles irradiated with far-red, red and blue light, suggesting the existence of a cross-talk between auxin and light signaling. The antibodies raised against His6-OsiIAA1 recombinant protein could detect the OsiIAA1 protein in the plant extract only in the presence of a proteasome inhibitor, MG132, indicating that OsiIAA1 is rapidly degraded by proteasome complex. The degradation of the protein was enhanced by the application of exogenous auxin. Also, the proteasome inhibitor MG132 stabilized the purified His6-OsiIAA1 protein to some extent in the cell-free extracts of rice coleoptiles. The OsiIAA1 protein harbors two nuclear localization signals (NLSs), one bipartite and the other resembling SV40 type NLS. Although both the NLSs were able to target the protein to the nucleus, the bipartite NLS was more effective. These studies indicate that nuclear localization of OsiIAA1 could be a prerequisite for its role in auxin signal transduction.
16140371	The conformation of rice globulin (10%, w/v, in deuterated phosphate buffer, pD 7.4) under the influence of pH, chaotropic salts, several protein structure perturbants and heat treatments was studied by Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. Rice globulin exhibited seven major bands in the region of 1700-1600 cm-1 and the spectrum suggests high alpha-helical content with large quantities of beta-sheet and beta-turn structures. Highly acidic and alkaline pH conditions induced changes in band intensity attributed to intermolecular beta-sheet structure (1681 and 1619 cm-1). Addition of chaotropic salts led to progressive changes in band intensity, following the lyotropic series of anions, whereas several protein structure perturbants caused shifts in band positions. Heating at increasing temperature led to progressive decreases in alpha-helical content and increases in random coil structures, suggesting protein denaturation. This was accompanied by intensity increases in the intermolecular beta-sheet transitions.
16140596	A novel RecA-like protein, differing from Dmc1 and Rad51, was characterized in Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare. Because the protein is homologous to bacterial RadA, the gene was designated OsRadA. The open reading frame was predicted to encode a 66kDa protein of 619 amino acid residues and was found in plants but not animals or yeast. OsRadA showed D-loop and single-stranded DNA-dependent ATPase activities. Gene expression was found to be high in meristematic tissues, and was localized in the nucleus. An RNAi mutant of Arabidopsis thaliana RadA (AtRadA) was sensitive to mutagenic agents such as UV and MMC, suggesting that RadA functions in DNA repair.
16140994	Arabidopsis and rice are the only two model plants whose finished phase genome sequence has been completed. Here we report the construction of an oligomer microarray based on the presently known and predicted gene models in the rice genome. This microarray was used to analyze the transcriptional activity of the gene models in representative rice organ types. Expression of 86% of the 41,754 known and predicted gene models was detected. A significant fraction of these expressed gene models are organized into chromosomal regions, about 100 kb in length, that exhibit a coexpression pattern. Compared with similar genome-wide surveys of the Arabidopsis transcriptome, our results indicate that similar proportions of the two genomes are expressed in their corresponding organ types. A large percentage of the rice gene models that lack significant Arabidopsis homologs are expressed. Furthermore, the expression patterns of rice and Arabidopsis best-matched homologous genes in distinct functional groups indicate dramatic differences in their degree of conservation between the two species. Thus, this initial comparative analysis reveals some basic similarities and differences between the Arabidopsis and rice transcriptomes.
16140995	DNA transposons are known to frequently capture duplicated fragments of host genes. The evolutionary impact of this phenomenon depends on how frequently the fragments retain protein-coding function as opposed to becoming pseudogenes. Gene fragment duplication by Mutator-like elements (MULEs) has previously been documented in maize, Arabidopsis, and rice. Here we present a rigorous genome-wide analysis of MULEs in the model plant Oryza sativa (domesticated rice). We identify 8274 MULEs with intact termini and target-site duplications (TSDs) and show that 1337 of them contain duplicated host gene fragments. Through a detailed examination of the 5% of duplicated gene fragments that are transcribed, we demonstrate that virtually all cases contain pseudogenic features such as fragmented conserved protein domains, frameshifts, and premature stop codons. In addition, we show that the distribution of the ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous amino acid substitution rates for the duplications agrees with the expected distribution for pseudogenes. We conclude that MULE-mediated host gene duplication results in the formation of pseudogenes, not novel functional protein-coding genes; however, the transcribed duplications possess characteristics consistent with a potential role in the regulation of host gene expression.
16141333	Nearly finished sequences for model organisms provide a foundation from which to explore genomic diversity among other taxonomic groups. We explore genome-wide microsynteny patterns between the rice sequence and two sorghum physical maps that integrate genetic markers, bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) fingerprints, and BAC hybridization data. The sorghum maps largely tile a genomic component containing 41% of BACs but 80% of single-copy genes that shows conserved microsynteny with rice and partially tile a nonsyntenic component containing 46% of BACs but only 13% of single-copy genes. The remaining BACs are centromeric (4%) or unassigned (8%). The two genomic components correspond to cytologically discernible "euchromatin" and "heterochromatin." Gene and repetitive DNA distributions support this classification. Greater microcolinearity in recombinogenic (euchromatic) than nonrecombinogenic (heterochromatic) regions is consistent with the hypothesis that genomic rearrangements are usually deleterious, thus more likely to persist in nonrecombinogenic regions by virtue of Muller's ratchet. Interchromosomal centromeric rearrangements may have fostered diploidization of a polyploid cereal progenitor. Model plant sequences better guide studies of related genomes in recombinogenic than nonrecombinogenic regions. Bridging of 35 physical gaps in the rice sequence by sorghum BAC contigs illustrates reciprocal benefits of comparative approaches that extend at least across the cereals and perhaps beyond.
16141453	The tapetum, the innermost of four sporophytic layers in the anther wall, comes in direct contact with the developing male gametophyte and is thought to play a crucial role in the development and maturation of microspores. Here, we report the identification of rice (Oryza sativa) Undeveloped Tapetum1 (Udt1), which is required for the differentiation of secondary parietal cells to mature tapetal cells. T-DNA or retrotransposon Tos17 insertions in the Udt1 gene caused male sterility. The anther walls and meiocytes of the mutants were normal during the early premeiosis stage, but their tapeta failed to differentiate and became vacuolated during the meiotic stage. In addition, meiocytes did not develop to microspores, and middle layer degeneration was inhibited. Consequently, the anther locules contained no pollen. The UDT1:green fluorescent protein fusion protein was localized to the nucleus. This, together with its homology with other basic helix-loop-helix proteins, suggests that UDT1 is a transcription factor. DNA microarray analysis identified 958 downregulated and 267 upregulated genes in the udt1-1 anthers, suggesting that Udt1 plays a major role in maintaining tapetum development, starting in early meiosis.
16141454	We used soybean (Glycine max) cDNA microarrays to identify candidate genes for a stable mutation at the Wp locus in soybean, which changed a purple-flowered phenotype to pink, and found that flavanone 3-hydroxylase cDNAs were overexpressed in purple flower buds relative to the pink. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and RNA gel blots of purple and pink flower isolines, as well as the presence of a 5.7-kb transposon insertion in the wp mutant allele, have unequivocally shown that flavanone 3-hydroxylase gene 1 is the Wp locus. Moreover, the 5.7-kb insertion in wp represents a novel transposable element (termed Tgm-Express1) with inverted repeats closely related to those of other Tgms (transposable-like elements, G. max) but distinct in several characteristics, including the lack of subterminal inverted repeats. More significantly, Tgm-Express1 contains four truncated cellular genes from the soybean genome, resembling the Pack-MULEs (Mutator-like transposable elements) found in maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa), and Arabidopsis thaliana and the Helitrons of maize. The presence of the Tgm-Express1 element causing the wp mutation, as well as a second Tgm-Express2 element elsewhere in the soybean genome, extends the ability to acquire and transport host DNA segments to the CACTA family of elements, which includes both Tgm and the prototypical maize Spm/En.
16141997	To study schistomasiasis infection in school children in Molodo, an irrigated rice growing region of Mali, by determining the prevalence of schistomasiasis and lesions identified by ultrasonography among children living in this region. This cross sectional study included 346 children aged 7 to 14 years selected at random from five schools in Molodo. We tested for hematuria using urine dipsticks and searched for Schistosoma haematobium eggs in urine and S. mansoni eggs in stools. Ultrasonography of the liver, spleen and urinary tract was performed. The prevalences of Schistosoma haematobium and S. mansoni infection were 72% (range: 66.9-76.6%) and 68.2% (range: 60.9-71.2%) respectively; 55.1% of the children had co-infection. Ultrasonography of the urinary tract revealed an irregular bladder wall as the most frequent abnormality (3.4% of children). Abdominal ultrasonography demonstrated type B hepatic fibrosis in four children (1.1%), type C in one (0.3%) and type D in one (0.3%). Few schistosomiasis lesions were detected by ultrasonography compared with the prevalence of S. haematobium and S. mansoni infections. This observation is probably related to mass treatment programs conducted during a national anti-schistosomiasis program.
16142402	Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi (Labiatae) has been used in the treatment of inflammatory diseases. Drug processing (Poje) is the process of treating crude drugs by several methods before use. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of processed Scutellaria baicalensis on experimental ulcerative colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS). The types of processed Scutellaria baicalensis used in this study were parched Scutellaria baicalensis (PS) and rice wine-baked Scutellaria baicalensis (RWBS). Experimental colitis was induced in mice using a daily treatment of 5% DSS in the drinking water for 7 days. The water extracts of processed Scutellaria baicalensis (1 g/kg) were administered orally once a day for 7 days. The mice were divided in four groups: i) water plus DSS group, ii) crude Scutellaria baicalensis (CS) plus DSS group, iii) PS plus DSS group, and iv) RWBS plus DSS group. RWBS ameliorated all of the inflammatory symptoms, such as body weight loss, rectal bleeding and histological damage, compared to CS. Furthermore, RWBS significantly reduced the mucosal myeloperoxidase activity, and TNF-alpha (tumor necrosis factor-alpha), COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2), NF-kappaB (nuclear factor-kappa B) and chymase expression more than CS. But these effects were not shown in the PS plus DSS group. Efficacy of Scutellaria baicalensis was increased after rice wine baking, but not after parching. The findings in this study suggest that RWBS may be a useful therapeutic agent for ulcerative colitis.
16142640	Isovitexin exhibits potent antioxidant activities. In this study, the activity of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated RAW264.7 macrophages after incubation with isovitexin was investigated. Isovitexin was able to reduce the production of hydrogen peroxide induced by LPS in mouse macrophage RAW264.7 cells. The cells incubated with isovitexin had markedly reduced LPS-stimulated NO production with an IC (50) value of 58.5 microM. The expression of iNOS was also inhibited when the cells were treated with isovitexin. A transient transfection experiment showed that isovitexin suppressed the iNOS promoter and NF-kappaB-dependent transcriptional activities. It was also found to inhibit IKK kinase activity and prevent the degradation of IkappaBalpha in activated RAW264.7 cells. Additionally, Western blotting analysis revealed that isovitexin prevented the translocation of NF-kappaB from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Our results indicate that its ROS scavenger and IKK inhibitory activities also contribute to the suppression of ROS-mediated NF-kappaB activity. These results suggest that isovitexin, a food phytochemical contained in dietary rice products, might have biological significance.
16143312	In response to endogenous and exogenous stimuli, macrophages are activated to produce a cocktail of proinflammatory and anti-apoptotic mediators, thereby participating in the processes of inflammation-associated oncogenesis. Cereals, including corn and rice, have biological potentials to synthesize self-protective chemicals in order to repel the invasion of microorganisms and insects. We examined the suppressive effects of several fatty acids, including a new class of lipoxygenase metabolites of linoleic acid (LA) found in cereals, namely (+/-)-9-hydroxy-trans,cis-10,12-octadecadienoic acid (9-HOA from rice), (+/-)-13-hydroxy-10-oxo-trans-11-octadecenoic acid (13-HOA from corn), and (+/-)-10-oxo-trans-11-octadecen-13-olide (10-ODO from corn), on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced mRNA expression of proinflammatory mediators in RAW264.7 murine macrophages. Each metabolite exhibited a suppressive activity toward nitrite production than LA, octadeca-9Z,11E-dienoic acid (a conjugated LA), and 13S-hydroxyoctadeca-9Z,11E-dienoic acid. LPS-up-regulated mRNA expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, interleukin-6, and toll-like receptor-2, -4, and -9 was also markedly attenuated without affecting the expression levels of several constitutive genes, including COX-1, as detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reactions. In addition, Western blot and luciferase reporter assay results showed that 13-HOA suppressed the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (extracellular signal-regulated kinasel/2, c-Jun N-terminal kinasel/2, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase), and Akt (Ser473), and also attenuated degradation of inhibitor kappaB, nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB), and the transcriptional activities of NFkappaB and activator protein-1, both of which have essential roles in the transcription of numerous proinflammatory and oncogenic genes. In contrast, 13-HOA did not serve as a ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma. Based on our findings, we propose that 13-HOA, a functionally novel LA-derivative, is a promising agent for anti-inflammatory and chemopreventive strategies with reasonable molecular mechanisms.
16143604	Cytogenetic maps of sorghum chromosomes 3-7, 9, and 10 were constructed on the basis of the fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) of approximately 18-30 BAC probes mapped across each of these chromosomes. Distal regions of euchromatin and pericentromeric regions of heterochromatin were delimited for all 10 sorghum chromosomes and their DNA content quantified. Euchromatic DNA spans approximately 50% of the sorghum genome, ranging from approximately 60% of chromosome 1 (SBI-01) to approximately 33% of chromosome 7 (SBI-07). This portion of the sorghum genome is predicted to encode approximately 70% of the sorghum genes (approximately 1 gene model/12.3 kbp), assuming that rice and sorghum encode a similar number of genes. Heterochromatin spans approximately 411 Mbp of the sorghum genome, a region characterized by a approximately 34-fold lower rate of recombination and approximately 3-fold lower gene density compared to euchromatic DNA. The sorghum and rice genomes exhibit a high degree of macrocolinearity; however, the sorghum genome is approximately 2-fold larger than the rice genome. The distal euchromatic regions of sorghum chromosomes 3-7 and 10 are approximately 1.8-fold larger overall and exhibit an approximately 1.5-fold lower average rate of recombination than the colinear regions of the homeologous rice chromosomes. By contrast, the pericentromeric heterochromatic regions of these chromosomes are on average approximately 3.6-fold larger in sorghum and recombination is suppressed approximately 15-fold compared to the colinear regions of rice chromosomes.
16144303	Weedy rice refers to populations of usually annual Oryza species that diminish farmer income through reduction of grain yield and lowered commodity value at harvest. The genetic diversity and population genetic structure of weedy rice in Liaoning Province were studied by RAPD and SSR markers. The results indicate that the level of genetic diversity of Liaoning weedy rice is very low, with polymorphic loci being only 3.70% (RAPDs) and 47.62% (SSRs). On the other hand, high genetic differentiation was found among populations, in particular between two regions (Shenyang and Dandong), with Fst values of 0.746 (RAPDs) and 0.656 (SSRs), suggesting that more than two thirds of the genetic variation resides among regions. Combined with our investigations of cultural traditions, the low level of genetic diversity in Liaoning Province is attributed to its narrow genetic background enhanced by exchanges of cultivar seeds, whereas the high genetic differentiation between the two regions is most likely the result of different founding parents and gene flow from local rice varieties to weedy rice. The rice cultivars in the two regions are all local varieties and are different genetically. A comparison of the two marker systems demonstrates that SSR is more informative and powerful in terms of the assessment of genetic variability, although both RAPD and SSR provide useful genetic information on weedy rice.
1614508
16145832	In this paper, we show that recombinant human lactoferrin (rhLF) has been stably expressed at 0.5% brown rice flour weight for nine generations. Process development indicates that rhLF can be efficiently extracted from rice flour in 20 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing up to 0.5 M NaCl and at a ratio of 1 kg flour to 10 L buffer. After solid/liquid separation, the extract can then be loaded directly onto an ion-exchange column and rhLF can be eluted using 0.8 M NaCl. The resulting rhLF is about 95% pure. A range of biochemical and biophysical analyses were carried out and results indicated that the purified rhLF was identical to its native human counterpart other than its glycosylation. Economic analysis shows that at 600 kg/year scale, the cash cost to produce 1 g of rhLF of pharmaceutical grade is US$ 5.90. Analysis also indicates that the expression level has profound impact on costs related to planting, milling, extraction and purification, thus high level expression of recombinant protein in plants is one of the key parameters for the success of plant made pharmaceuticals.
16146311	Nitrate reductase (NR) activity in the presence of Mg2+ (NR act) representing the non-phosphorylated NR state and the activity in the presence of EDTA (NR max) representing maximum NR activity was measured in roots and shoots of 15 d grown aluminium and water stressed rice seedlings to examine changes in NR activation state due to these stresses. Seedlings subjected to a moderate water stress level of -0.5 MPa for 24 h or grown in presence of 80 microM Al3+showed decreased level of NR max but resulted in higher NR act and NR activation state. However, seedlings grown in presence of a higher level of 160 microM Al3+ showed a decline in NR act as well as NR max. With a higher water stress Level of -2.0MPa a marked decline in the levels of both NR act and NR max was observed, whereas NR activation state remained almost unaltered with severe water stress. NR activity appeared to be sensitive to H2O2, PEG-6000, NaCl and various metal salts. Incorporation of these components in the enzyme assay medium led to decreased affinity of enzyme towards its substrate with increase in Km and decrease in Vmax values. Addition of each of the osmolytes i.e. 1 mol/L proline, 1 mol/L glycine betaine or 1 mol/L sucrose in the enzyme assay medium caused a considerable protection to the enzyme against the damaging effects of stressful components. An enhanced level of proline and glycine betaine was observed in Al-stressed seedlings and sucrose in Al as well as water stressed seedlings. Results suggest that Al toxicity and water stress decrease total amount of functional NR in rice seedlings and the osmolytes proline, glycine betaine and sucrose appear to have a direct protective action on enzyme NR under stressful conditions
16146316	The Rice varieties Araure 4 (A4) and Fonaiap 2000 (F2000) were grown in the glasshouse under natural sunlight and subjected to drought at heading. The drought induced changes in chlorophyll a fluorescence parameters, pigment composition, D1 contents and carbohydrate accumulation were investigated. Drought decreased phiPS II, FV'/FM' and qP, and increased qN in both varieties. F2000 had larger values of phiPS II and FV'/FM' at a lower RWC than A4. With the onset of drought only A4 increased the xanthophyll cycle pool, F2000 remaining constant throughout the drought cycle. Irrigated plants of A4 had a Larger de-epoxidation state (DEPS) of the xanthophyll cycle than F2000. A 40% increase in DEPS was induced by drought in both varieties but in A4 it was attained at a larger RWC than in F2000. Drought increased glucose and fructose contents of leaves 8-fold in A4 and 3-fold in F2000. Contrarily, sucrose contents decreased with drought but the effects were larger in A4 than in F2000. Sugars accumulation preceded and was proportional to the decrease in PS II activity elicited by drought in both varieties. In F2000 a decrease in D1 content smaller than 20% occurred at 70% of RWC, whereas droughted plants of A4 had lost 80% of D1 protein at 77% of RWC. Our data show that drought severely affected PS II activity and its main regulatory mechanisms in rice. There are genotypic differences in the response of PS II activity to drought that could be exploited as traits for selection to drought tolerance. There is a possible link between the drought-induced sugars accumulation in the flag leaf and the response of PS II to water deficit.
16146317	Plant fatty acid alpha-dioxygenases (DOXs) catalyze the stereospecific conversion of fatty acids into the corresponding (R)-2-hydroperoxy fatty acids. In several plant species the corresponding gene was shown to be induced by pathogen infection, herbivore attack and environmental stresses. The precise signaling pathway accountable for the induction remains unidentified. In the present study, the effects of bacterial infection, oxidative- and heavy metal-stresses, and plant signaling molecules such as jasmonate, salicylic acid (SA), and ethylene (ET) on expression of a fatty acid alpha-DOX (OsDOX) gene in rice seedlings were investigated. The rice blight bacteria, Xanthomonas oryzae, elicited the accumulation of OsDOX transcripts in the leaves in both the incompatible and compatible interactions. Treating the seedling with CuSO4 also significantly enhanced the OsDOX expression. The degree of induction was shown to be mostly parallel to the level of endogenous jasmonic acid (JA) in the leaves. In contrast, SA was little effective and ET down-regulated not only the OsDOX expression but also the endogenous level of JA in rice seedlings. These results suggested that the OsDOX gene expression by a variety of stress-related stimuli was activated through jasmonate signaling and was negatively regulated by ET.
16146320	To investigate the mechanisms whereby treatment with chitosan (CHN) is observed to increase the capacity of plants to resist pathogens, CHNs of different molecular weights (MWs) prepared by enzyme hydrolysis were used to treat rice cells in suspension culture and also rice seedlings. The results obtained with cultured cells showed that in this material CHN treatment could trigger a set of defence responses, including the production of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), increases in the activities of phenylalanine ammonialyase (PAL; EC 4.3.1.5) and chitinase (CHI; EC 3.2.1.14), increases in transcription of defence-related genes beta-1,3-glucanase (glu) and chitinase (chi) and accumulation of pathogen-related protein (PR1). Furthermore, CHNs of different MWs were observed to have different capacities to induce defence responses. CHNs of low MWs were more effective at inducing the described defence responses than those of higher MWs. Enhanced defence against rice blast pathogen Magnaporthe grisea 97-23-2D1 was observed in rice seedlings treated with low MW CHNs compared to seedlings treated with higher MW CHNs. In all cases, suppressing the production of H2O2 by adding scavengers dimethylthiourea (DMTU), 2,5-dihydroxycinnamic acid methyl ester (DHC), catalase (Cat) or ascorbate (As) blocked the defence responses. These results indicate that CHNs of low MWs have a greater capacity to induce the production of H2O2, thus resulting in stronger defence responses, than those with higher MWs.
16146523	Micro-RNAs (miRNAs) are one class of endogenous tiny RNAs that play important regulatory roles in plant development and responses to external stimuli. To date, miRNAs have been cloned from higher plants such as Arabidopsis, rice and pumpkin, and there is limited information on their identity in lower plants including Bryophytes. Bryophytes are among the oldest groups of land plants among the earth's flora, and are important for our understanding of the transition to life on land. To identify miRNAs that might have played a role early in land plant evolution, we constructed a library of small RNAs from the juvenile gametophyte (protonema) of the moss Physcomitrella patens. Sequence analysis revealed five higher plant miRNA homologues, including three members of the miR319 family, previously shown to be involved in the regulation of leaf morphogenesis, and miR156, which has been suggested to regulate several members of the SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING-LIKE (SPL) family in Arabidopsis. We have cloned PpSBP3, a moss SPL homologue that contains an miR156 complementary site, and demonstrated that its mRNA is cleaved within that site suggesting that it is an miR156 target in moss. Six additional candidate moss miRNAs were identified and shown to be expressed in the gametophyte, some of which were developmentally regulated or upregulated by auxin. Our observations suggest that miRNAs play important regulatory roles in mosses.
16146529	Grass flowers are highly derived compared to their eudicot counterparts. To delineate OsMADS1 functions in rice floret organ development we have examined its evolution and the consequences of its knockdown or overexpression. Molecular phylogeny suggests the co-evolution of OsMADS1 with grass family diversification. OsMADS1 knockdown perturbs the differentiation of specific cell types in the lemma and palea, creating glume-like features, with severe derangements in lemma differentiation. Conversely, ectopic OsMADS1 expression suffices to direct lemma-like differentiation in the glume. Strikingly, in many OsMADS1 knockdown florets glume-like organs occupy all the inner whorls. Such effects in the second and third whorl are unexplained, as wild-type florets do not express OsMADS1 in these primordia and because transcripts for rice B and C organ-identity genes are unaffected by OsMADS1 knockdown. Through a screen for OsMADS1 targets we identify a flower-specific Nt-gh3 type gene, OsMGH3, as a downstream gene. The delayed transcription activation of OsMGH3 by dexamethasone-inducible OsMADS1 suggests indirect activation. The OsMGH3 floret expression profile suggests a novel role for OsMADS1 as an early-acting regulator of second and third whorl organ fate. We thus demonstrate the differential contribution of OsMADS1 for lemma versus palea development and provide evidence for its regulatory function in patterning inner whorl organs.
16147429	Carbaryl is one of the most important N-methyl carbamate insecticides used all over the world. To determine carbaryl residues in agricultural products (apple, pear, Chinese cabbage, rice and barley), a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method was employed, and a simple and efficient extraction method for the rapid detection of carbaryl in agricultural products was developed with recoveries greater than 90%. After liquid extraction, sample extracts diluted with buffer were analysed by ELISA directly. Matrix effects can be avoided when a 1:20 dilution of apple, pear, rice and barley samples and a 1:50 dilution of Chinese cabbage samples with 0.5% fish skin gelation in phosphate-buffered saline containing 5% methanol. Sample extracts were analysed by ELISA and HPLC, and results obtained by two methods correlated well; the correlation was greater than 0.9.
1614781	A double-masked clinical trial was conducted to assess the effects of inclusion of beans in a mixed diet for young Peruvian children with acute diarrhea. Dietary treatment consisted of either rice, beans, and vegetable oil (group RB, n = 25) or rice, soy-protein isolate, corn syrup solids, and vegetable oil (group RS, n = 21), each given in amounts up to 150 kcal/kg body weight per day immediately following rehydration therapy. The groups were generally similar at the time of admission, and there were no differences in the rates of treatment failure (8% in group RB, 14% in group RS; P = .65). Mean stool outputs were 83 +/- 46 (SD) g/kg body weight in group RB and 71 +/- 43 g/kg body weight in group RS on day 1, and these outputs consistently ranged from 25% to 40% greater in group RB than in group RS (P = .058). By contrast, the median duration of liquid stool excretion was substantially less in group RB than in group RS (60 vs 121 hours, P = .01). The fractional absorption of carbohydrate, fat, and total energy was significantly greater by children in group RS, but there were no differences in net apparent absorption of these nutrients because the children in group RB consumed significantly more of their assigned diet. Children in group RS gained significantly more weight during the whole period of observation (194 g vs 1 g, P = .047), but these differences could be entirely explained by the weight (and presumably fluid) changes on day 1. There were no consistent differences by dietary group in any of the other anthropometric indicators.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
16147863	Flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) is a key enzyme in the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway, providing a branching point for the biosynthesis of different flavonoids, including the formation of 3-deoxy and 3-hydroxy flavonoids found in the silks of maize. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of a F3H gene (Smf3h) from a cDNA library derived from a red line callus of Saussurea medusa, a traditional Chinese medicinal plant. The cDNA contains a 1032 bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding a protein of 343 amino acid residues, a 149 bp long 5'untranslated regions (UTR) and a 163 bp long 3'UTR containing three putative polyadenylation signals (AATAAA) and an ATTTA element. The secondary structure of the mRNA predicted by MFOLD is very complex, suggesting a role in a post-transcriptional mechanism of regulation of Smf3h. The genomic structure of Smf3h includes four exons and three introns within the coding region, with all the splice donor/acceptor site sequences in accordance with the "GU-AG" consensus rule. The deduced SmF3H protein is 343 amino acid residues in length and has 40% and 39% identity and 60% and 58% similarity to the F3H of Arabidopsis and rice, respectively. Strikingly, the identity of SmF3H is higher to the H6H (hyoscyamine 3beta-hydroxylase, 45%) from Atropa belladonna. However, the analysis of the active center and the predicted protein secondary structure are more related to F3H than H6H. Together, our studies provide the first identification of a S. medusa flavonoid gene and its similarities to metabolic enzymes from other plants.
16147864	A C2H2-type zinc finger protein gene ZFP245 was cloned by RT-PCR approach from cold treated rice seedlings. ZFP245 is 712 bp in length and encodes a 24.5 KDa protein, which has 35% identity in amino acid with SCOF-1, a cold-inducible zinc finger protein from soybean. By database search, ZFP245 was mapped on chromosome 7 and clustered together with another C2H2 zinc finger gene. Tissue expression analysis showed that ZFP245 was constitutively expressed in various rice tissues including roots, stems, leaves and spikes. The semi-quantitative-RT-PCR assay revealed ZFP245 was strongly induced after 6 h exposure to cold and drought stresses, and then reduced to the baseline. However, ZFP245 was not regulated by high salt or abscisic acid treatment. The promoter sequence of 1017 nucleotides, upstream of ZFP245, was cloned directly by PCR approach. Sequence analysis revealed a CRT/DRE element was found within the ZFP245 promoter region. Taken together, ZFP245, as the first identified C2H2-type zinc finger protein involved in stress response in monocots probably plays a role as a transcription regulator in plant cold and drought responses through an ABA-independent pathway.
161500
16151088	A gene cluster responsible for the biosynthesis of validamycin, an aminocyclitol antibiotic widely used as a control agent for sheath blight disease of rice plants, was identified from Streptomyces hygroscopicus subsp. jinggangensis 5008 using heterologous probe acbC, a gene involved in the cyclization of D-sedoheptulose 7-phosphate to 2-epi-5-epi-valiolone of the acarbose biosynthetic gene cluster originated from Actinoplanes sp. strain SE50/110. Deletion of a 30-kb DNA fragment from this cluster in the chromosome resulted in loss of validamycin production, confirming a direct involvement of the gene cluster in the biosynthesis of this important plant protectant. A sequenced 6-kb fragment contained valA (an acbC homologue encoding a putative cyclase) as well as two additional complete open reading frames (valB and valC, encoding a putative adenyltransferase and a kinase, respectively), which are organized as an operon. The function of ValA was genetically demonstrated to be essential for validamycin production and biochemically shown to be responsible specifically for the cyclization of D-sedoheptulose 7-phosphate to 2-epi-5-epi-valiolone in vitro using the ValA protein heterologously overexpressed in E. coli. The information obtained should pave the way for further detailed analysis of the complete biosynthetic pathway, which would lead to a complete understanding of validamycin biosynthesis.
16151856	Blast resistance in the indica cultivar (cv.) Q61 was inherited as a single dominant gene in two F2 populations, F2-1 and F2-2, derived from crosses between the donor cv. and two susceptible japonica cvs. Aichi Asahi and Lijiangxintuanheigu (LTH), respectively. To rapidly determine the chromosomal location of the resistance (R) gene detected in Q61, random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis was performed in the F2-1 population using bulked-segregant analysis (BSA) in combination with recessive-class analysis (RCA). One of the three linked markers identified, BA1126(550), was cloned and sequenced. The R gene locus was roughly mapped on rice chromosome 8 by comparison of the BA1126(550) sequence with rice sequences in the databases (chromosome landing). To confirm this finding, seven known markers, including four sequence-tagged-site (STS) markers and three simple-sequence repeat (SSR) markers flanking BA1126(550) on chromosome 8, were subjected to linkage analysis in the two F2 populations. The locus was mapped to a 5.8 cM interval bounded by RM5647 and RM8018 on the short arm of chromosome 8. This novel R gene is therefore tentatively designated as Pi36(t). For fine mapping of the Pi36(t) locus, five additional markers including one STS marker and four candidate resistance gene (CRG) markers were developed in the target region, based on the genomic sequence of the corresponding region of the reference japonica cv. Nipponbare. The Pi36(t) locus was finally localized to an interval of about 0.6 cM flanked by the markers RM5647 and CRG2, and co-segregated with the markers CRG3 and CRG4. To physically map this locus, the Pi36(t)-linked markers were mapped by electronic hybridization to bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) or P1 artificial chromosome (PAC) clones of Nipponbare, and a contig map was constructed in silico through Pairwise BLAST analysis. The Pi36(t) locus was physically delimited to an interval of about 17.0 kb, based on the genomic sequence of Nipponbare.
16151868	Rhizobia having photosynthetic systems form nitrogen-fixing nodules on the stem and/or root of some species of the legumes Aeschynomene and Lotononis. This review is focused on the recent knowledge about the physiology, genetics and role of the photosystem in these bacteria. Photosynthetic electron transport seems to involve reaction centers, soluble cytochrome c2 and cytochrome bc1. Anaerobically, the electron transport system becomes over-reduced. The photosynthesis genes have been partially characterized; their organization is classical but their regulation is unusual as it is activated by far-red light via a bacteriophytochrome. This original mechanism of regulation seems well adapted to promote photosynthesis during stem symbiosis. Photosynthesis plays a major role in the efficiency of stem nodulation. It is also observed that infrared light stimulates nitrogen fixation in nodules containing photosynthetic bacteroids, suggesting that photosynthesis may additionally provides energy for nitrogen fixation, allowing for more efficient plant growth. Other aspects of these bacteria are discussed, in particular their taxonomic position and nodulation ability, the role of carotenoids and the potential for application of photosynthetic rhizobia in rice culture.
16152656	The rice dwarf1 (d1) mutant, which lacks the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric G protein (Galpha protein), shows abnormal morphology due to shortened internodes, dark green leaves and grains that are small and round. Proteome analysis was used in this study to aid in determining the function of Galpha protein in rice embryos. Using 2-DE, seven seed embryo proteins were shown to be down-regulated in the d1 mutant as compared with its wild type. These seven proteins included a receptor for activated C-kinase (RACK) and six rice embryo globulin-2 proteins (REG2). The six REG2 have similar molecular masses with minor differences in pI. In addition to the reduced accumulation of RACK in the d1 mutant, the increase in QL/d1, in which a constitutively active form of the Galpha protein is expressed, was significantly higher as compared with wild type. The level of accumulation of these seven proteins during seed development and maturation did not change significantly until the 2nd wk after pollination. Reduced accumulation of these seven proteins started in the d1 mutant at the 3rd wk after pollination, and continued until seed maturation was complete. All seven proteins were completely absent 24 h after imbibition in both d1 mutant and its wild type. However, the phytohormone abscisic acid promoted the expression level of RACK after imbibition in the wild type as compared with d1 mutant. These results suggest that RACK is regulated by Galpha-protein and plays an important role in a basic cellular process as well as in rice embryogenesis and germination.
16152659	Wheat flour proteins were studied to identify the cultivar-specific proteins and use them to identify cultivars in flours. Proteins extracted from flours of Japanese wheat (cultivars Hokushin, Horoshirikomugi, Kitanokaori and Kachikei 33) and Canadian wheat (Canada Western Red Spring Wheat No. 1; 1CW) were analyzed by 2-DE with IEF gels over three pH ranges: pH 4-7, pH 5-8, and pH 6-11. This system enabled detection of more than 1600 protein spots. We recognized that among 50 protein spots showing cultivar-dependent qualitative changes, 25 proteins were wheat cultivar specific. These 50 protein spots were analyzed by N-terminal Edman degradation microsequencing and MALDI-TOF-MS; 21 protein spots were storage proteins, such as gliadin and low-molecular mass glutenin subunit. Five protein spots were identified as dehydroascorbate reductase (Triticum aestivum), triticin precursor (T. aestivum), alpha-amylase inhibitor (Oryza sativa), DNA-binding with one finger (Dof) zinc family protein (O. sativa), and nonphototropic hypocotyl 1 (NPH1) protein (Avena sativa). The other protein spots appeared to be hypothetical proteins (O. sativa or Arabidopsis thaliana) or functional unknown proteins. These specific proteins can be used as markers to identify wheat cultivars in blended flour composed of two or three flours.
16152940	An interlaboratory study was performed on behalf of the UK Food Standards Agency to evaluate the effectiveness of an immunoaffinity column cleanup liquid chromatographic (LC) method for the determination of deoxynivalenol in a variety of cereals and cereal products at proposed European regulatory limits. The test portion was extracted with water. The sample extract was filtered a applied to an immunoaffinity column. After being washed with water, the deoxynivalenol was eluted with acetonitrile or methanol. Deoxynivalenol was quantitated by reversed-phase LC with UV determination. Samples of artificially contaminated wheat-flour, rice flour, oat flour, polenta, and wheat based breakfast cereal, naturally contaminated wheat flour, and blank (very low level) samples of each matrix were sent to 13 collaborators in 7 European countries. Participants were asked to spike test portions of all samples at a range of deoxynivalenol concentrations equivalent to 200-2000 ng/g deoxynivalenol. Average recoveries ranged from 78 to 87%. Based on results for 6 artificially contaminated samples (blind duplicates), the relative standard deviation for repeatability (RSDr) ranged from 3.1 to 14.1%, and the relative standard deviation for reproducibility (RSDR) ranged from 11.5 to 26.3%. The method showed acceptable within-laboratory and between-laboratory precision for all 5 matrixes, as evidenced by HorRat values < 1.3.
16153601	A cDNA (1061 bp) Bj glyII was cloned from a mannitol induced library of Brassica juncea. It encoded a protein of 335 amino acids with a molecular weight of 36.52 kDa. The deduced amino acid sequence of the clone showed 92% and 56% identity with Pennisetum and rice glyoxalase II, respectively, and 30% identity was observed with the human glyoxalase II. Search for the identical residues revealed the presence of highly conserved THHHXDH domain which is involved in zinc binding. p-NN and pSORT analysis of this sequence revealed a N-terminal mitochondrial target peptide. The cDNA was cloned in pMAL and a fusion protein with MBP (78 kDa) was expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein was purified approximately sixfold by affinity purification on amylose column and showed its pH optima at 7.0. The K(m) was determined to be 120 microM using S-d-lactoylglutathione as substrate. The expression of Bj glyII under various abiotic stress conditions showed that it is upregulated by salinity, heavy metal stress, and ABA.
16153826	Paddy soils in Korea generally require the addition of Si to enhance rice productivity. Coal combustion fly ash, which has a high available Si content and alkaline pH, was selected as a potential source of Si in this study. Two field experiments were carried out to evaluate rice (Oryza sativa) productivity in silt loam and loamy sand soils to which 0, 40, 80, and 120 Mg ha(-1) of fly ash were added with 2 Mg ha(-1) Si as a control. Fly ash increased the soil pH and available Si and P contents of both soils. The amount of available B increased to a maximum of 2.57 mg kg(-1), and the B content of the rice plants increased to a maximum of 52-53 mg kg(-1) following the addition of 120 Mg ha(-1) fly ash. The rice plants did not show toxicity effects. The highest rice yields were achieved following the addition of around 90 Mg ha(-1) fly ash. The application of fly ash increased Si, P and K uptake by the rice plants, but did not result in an excessive uptake of heavy metals in the submerged paddy soil. In conclusion, fly ash could be a good supplement to other inorganic soil amendments to improve the nutrient balance in paddy soils.
16154498	Several low cost biomaterials such as baggase, charred rice husk, activated charcoal and eucalyptus bark (EB) were tested for removal of chromium. All the experiments were carried out in batch process with laboratory prepared samples and wastewater obtained from metal finishing section of auto ancillary unit. The adsorbent, which had highest chromium(VI) removal was EB. Influences of chromium concentration, pH, contact time on removal of chromium from effluent was investigated. The adsorption data were fitted well by Freundlich isotherm. The kinetic data were analyzed by using a first order Lagergren kinetic. The Gibbs free energy was obtained for each system and was found to be -1.879 kJ mol(-1) for Cr(VI) and -3.885 kJ mol(-1) for Cr(III) for removal from industrial effluent. The negative value of deltaG0 indicates the feasibility and spontaneous nature of adsorption. The maximum removal of Cr(VI) was observed at pH 2. Adsorption capacity was found to be 45 mg/g of adsorbent, at Cr(VI) concentration in the effluent being 250 mg/l. A waste water sample containing Cr(VI), Cr(III), Mg, and Ca obtained from industrial unit showed satisfactory removal of chromium. The results indicate that eucalyptus bark can be used for the removal of chromium.
16154614	Neem is derived from the neem tree Azadirachta indica A. Juss. (Meliaceae), and its primary insecticidal component is the tetranortriterpenoid azadirachtin and other limonoids. The effect of neem limonoids azadirachtin, salannin, deacetylgedunin, gedunin, 17-hydroxyazadiradione and deacetylnimbin on enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity of the rice leaffolder (RLF) Cnaphalocrocis medinalis (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) larvae was investigated. There was a decrease in enzyme activity relative to the control at all concentrations tested. When fed a diet of rice leaves treated with neem limonoids in bioassays, gut tissue enzyme, LDH levels in rice leaffolder larvae are affected. These results indicate neem limonoids affect LDH activity. These effects are most pronounced in early instar larvae. Azadirachtin was the most potent in of all the limonoids in all experiments indicating strong enzyme inhibition. Clear dose-response relationships were established with respect to LDH activity.
16154682	Large-scale sample surveys to estimate abundance and distribution of organisms and their habitats are increasingly important in ecological studies. Multi-stage sampling (MSS) is especially suited to large-scale surveys because of the natural clustering of resources. To illustrate an application, we: (1) designed a stratified MSS to estimate late autumn abundance (kg/ha) of rice seeds in harvested fields as food for waterfowl wintering in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley (MAV); (2) investigated options for improving the MSS design; and (3) compared statistical and cost efficiency of MSS to simulated simple random sampling (SRS). During 2000-2002, we sampled 25-35 landowners per year, 1 or 2 fields per landowner per year, and measured seed mass in 10 soil cores collected within each field. Analysis of variance components and costs for each stage of the survey design indicated that collecting 10 soil cores per field was near the optimum of 11-15, whereas sampling >1 field per landowner provided few benefits because data from fields within landowners were highly correlated. Coefficients of variation (CV) of annual estimates of rice abundance ranged from 0.23 to 0.31 and were limited by variation among landowners and the number of landowners sampled. Design effects representing the statistical efficiency of MSS relative to SRS ranged from 3.2 to 9.0, and simulations indicated SRS would cost, on average, 1.4 times more than MSS because clustering of sample units in MSS decreased travel costs. We recommend MSS as a potential sampling strategy for large-scale natural resource surveys and specifically for future surveys of the availability of rice as food for waterfowl in the MAV and similar areas.
16155566	Many important agronomic traits in crop plants, including stress tolerance, are complex traits controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTLs). Isolation of these QTLs holds great promise to improve world agriculture but is a challenging task. We previously mapped a rice QTL, SKC1, that maintained K(+) homeostasis in the salt-tolerant variety under salt stress, consistent with the earlier finding that K(+) homeostasis is important in salt tolerance. To understand the molecular basis of this QTL, we isolated the SKC1 gene by map-based cloning and found that it encoded a member of HKT-type transporters. SKC1 is preferentially expressed in the parenchyma cells surrounding the xylem vessels. Voltage-clamp analysis showed that SKC1 protein functions as a Na(+)-selective transporter. Physiological analysis suggested that SKC1 is involved in regulating K(+)/Na(+) homeostasis under salt stress, providing a potential tool for improving salt tolerance in crops.
16156564	The use of selective insecticides in rice, Oryza sativa L., fields often causes resurgence of nontarget pest insects. This study was conducted to investigate the effect of two selective insecticides, buprofezin and imidacloprid, on Tryporyza incertulas (Walker), a nontarget pest. After larval feeding on rice plants treated with each insecticide, fecundity, ovary protein content, and titer of juvenile hormone III (JHIII) in the resulting female moths were determined with 'Xiushui 63' rice susceptible to T. incertulas and 'Zhendao 2' moderately resistant to T. incertulas. The fecundity of females developed from larvae that fed on the insecticide-treated Xiushui 63 plants was stimulated compared with that of moths from larvae that fed on rice plants that were not treated with either insecticide. There was no stimulating effect in females from larvae that fed on insecticide-treated Zhendao 2 plants. The weight of fourth instars (final instars) that fed on the insecticide-treated Xiushui 63 rice plants was significantly greater than that of control, increasing by 50.3 and 46.7% for 60 and 112.5 g (AI) ha(-1) buprofezin, and by 23.7 and 19.5% for 15 and 37.5 g (AI) ha(-1) imidacloprid treatments, respectively. Ovary protein content in adult females developed from larvae that fed on the rice treated with the high dose of buprofezin was significantly higher than that in control. For the high and low doses of imidacloprid during the second instar, and the low dose of imidacloprid during the fourth instar, JHIII titers in female adults were also significantly higher than that in control, increasing by 152.81, 90.52, and 114.19%, respectively.
16156569	Scirpophaga incertulas (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) is autochthonous and monophagous on rice, Oryza spp., which favors the development of a physiological time model using degree-days (degrees C) to establish a well defined window during which adults will be present in fields. Model development of S. incertulas adult flight phenology used climatic data and historical field observations of S. incertulas from 1962 through 1988. Analysis of variance was used to evaluate 5,203 prospective models with starting dates ranging from 1 January (day 1) to 30 April (day 121) and base temperatures ranging from -3 through 18.5 degrees C. From six candidate models, which shared the lowest standard deviation of prediction error, a model with a base temperature of 10 degrees C starting on 19 January was selected for validation. Validation with linear regression evaluated the differences between predicted and observed events and showed the model consistently predicted phenological events of 10 to 90% cumulative flight activity within a 3.5-d prediction interval regarded as acceptable for pest management decision making. The degree-day phenology model developed here is expected to find field application in Guandong Province. Expansion to other areas of rice production will require field validation. We expect the degree-day characterization of the activity period will remain essentially intact, but the start day may vary based on climate and geographic location. The development and validation of the phenology model of the S. incertulas by using procedures originally developed for pecan nut casebearer, Acrobasis nuxvorella Neunzig, shows the fungibility of this approach to developing prediction models for other insects.
16157169	Flooded soils with rooted aquatic macrophytes have adjacent aerobic and anaerobic zones at the soil-water interface and rhizosphere where many common soil constituents undergo sequential oxidation and reduction reactions. To investigate whether pentachlorophenol (PCP) mineralization would also be enhanced under these conditions, a laboratory study was conducted to determine the conversion of [14C]PCP to 14CO2, 14CH4 and [14C]humic substances in soil microcosms with established aerobic-anaerobic zones at the soil-water interface and rice (Oryza sativa) rhizosphere. Contrary to what was expected, PCP was least rapidly degraded in rhizosphere-soil microcosms that contained the most extensive amounts of aerobic-anaerobic interfaces (63% PCP loss in 82 d) and was most rapidly degraded in soil microcosms that lacked redox interfaces in the soil profile (94% PCP loss in 82 d). Decreased PCP mineralization in the presence of aerobic-anaerobic interfaces was explained by (i) lack of sufficient O2 for aerobic PCP mineralization, due to the oxidation of other soil constituents in aerobic zones, and (ii) lack of an adequate supply of electron equivalents for reductive dechlorination of PCP, due to the reduction of other alternate electron acceptors in anaerobic zones. It was concluded that PCP mineralization is inhibited in flooded soils that contain extensive amounts of aerobic-anaerobic interfaces, due to redox cycling of other soil constituents that occur in these zones.
16158245	In flowering plants, anthers bear male gametophytes whose development is regulated by the elaborate coordination of many genes. In addition, both gibberellic acid (GA3) and jasmonic acid (JA) play important roles in anther development and pollen fertility. To facilitate the analysis of anther development genes and how GA3 and JA regulate anther development, we performed microarray experiments using a 10-K cDNA microarray with probes derived from seedlings, meiotic anthers, mature anthers and GA3- or JA-treated suspension cells of rice. The expression level change of 2155 genes was significantly (by 2-fold or greater) detected in anthers compared with seedlings. Forty-seven genes, representing genes with potential function in cell cycle and cell structure regulation, hormone response, photosynthesis, stress resistance and metabolism, were differentially expressed in meiotic and mature anthers. Moreover, 314 genes responded to either GA3 or JA treatment, and 24 GA3- and 82 JA-responsive genes showed significant changes in expression between meiosis and the mature anther stages. RT-PCR demonstrated that gene y656d05 was not only highly expressed in meiotic anthers but also induced by GA3. Strong RNA signals of y656d05 were detected in pollen mother cells and tapetum in in situ hybridization. Further characterization of these candidate genes can contribute to the understanding of the molecular mechanism of anther development and the involvement of JA and GA3 signals in the control of anther development in rice.
16158605	The wastewater discharged from tanneries lack biodegradability due to the presence of recalcitrant compounds at significant concentration. The focal theme of the present investigation was to use chemo-autotrophic activated carbon oxidation (CAACO) reactor, an immobilized cell reactor using chemoautotrophs for the treatment of tannery wastewater. The treatment scheme comprised of anaerobic treatment, sand filtration, and CAACO reactor, which remove COD, BOD, TOC, VFA and sulphides respectively by 86%, 95%, 81%, 71% and 100%. Rice bran mesoporous activated carbon prepared indigenously and was used for immobilization of chemoautotrophs. The degradation of xenobiotic compounds by CAACO was confirmed through HPLC and FT-IR techniques.
16158606	A biogeochemical model (DNDC) is combined with a plant ecological model to estimate N2O emission from rice paddy fields in the Yangtze River Delta region. The model is driven by local meteorological, soil, and physiological data and is validated for 1999 and 2000 at a site in the region, which showed that the simulated N2O emissions agree fairly well with the observed data. This adds some confidence in the estimated N2O emissions during 1950 and 2000 in the Hangzhou Region. A significant correlation between the N2O emissions and the population for the Hangzhou Region is found, which is due to a combination of increased application of fertilizers and cultivated area. Such a correlation can not be established for the whole Yangtze River Delta region when the data of both urban and rural areas are included. However, when the data from the heavily urbanized areas are excluded, a significant correlation between population and N2O emissions emerges. The results show clearly that both the temporal and the spatial N2O emissions have significant positive relationship with population under traditional farming practice. These results have implications for suitable mitigation options towards a sustainable agriculture and environment in this region.
16158607	The terrestrial ecosystem may be either a source or a sink of CH4 in rice paddies, depending, to a great extent, on the change of ecosystem types and land use patterns. CH4 emission fluxes from paddy fields under 4 cultivation patterns (conventional plain culture of rice (T1), no-tillage and ridge culture of rice (T2), no-tillage and ridge culture of rice and wheat (T3), and rice-wheat rotation (T4)) were measured with the closed chamber technique in 1996 and 1998 in Chongqing, China. The results showed that differences existed in CH4 emission from paddy fields under these land management practices. In 1996 and 1998, CH4 emission was 71.48% and 78.82% (T2), 65.93% and 57.18% (T3), and 61.53% and 34.22% (T4) of that in T1 during the rice growing season. During the non-rice growing season, CH4 emission from rice fields was 76.23% in T2 and 38.69% in TI. The accumulated annual CH4 emission in T2, T3 and T4 in 1996 decreased by 33.53%, 63.30% and 65.73%, respectively, as compared with that in T1. In 1998, the accumulated annual CH4 emission in T1, T2, T3 and T4 was 116.96 g/m2, 68.44 g/m2, 19.70 g/m2 and 11.80 g/m2, respectively. Changes in soil physical and chemical properties, in thermal and moisture conditions in the soil and in rice plant growth induced by different land use patterns were the dominant causes for the difference in CH4 emission observed. The relative contribution of various influencing factors to CH4 emission from paddy fields differed significantly under different land use patterns. However, the general trend was that chlorophyll content in rice leaves, air temperature and temperature at the 5 cm soil layer play a major role in CH4 emission from paddy fields and the effects of illumination, relative humidity and water layer depth in the paddy field and CH4 concentration in the crop canopy were relatively non-significant. Such conservative land use patterns as no-tillage and ridge culture of rice with or without rotation with wheat are thought to be beneficial to reducing CH4 emission from paddy fields and are, therefore, recommended as a significant solution to the problems of global (climatic) change.
16159942	Plant evolutionary theory has been greatly enriched by studies on crop species. Over the last century, important information has been generated on many aspects of population biology, speciation and polyploid genetics. Searches for quantitative trait loci (QTL) in crop species have uncovered numerous blocks of genes that have dramatic effects on adaptation, particularly during the domestication process. Many of these QTL have epistatic and pleiotropic effects making rapid evolutionary change possible. Most of the pioneering work on the molecular basis of self-incompatibility has been conducted on crop species, along with the sequencing of the phytopathogenic resistance genes (R genes) responsible for the 'gene-to-gene' relations of coevolution observed in host-pathogen relationships. Some of the better examples of co-adaptation and early acting inbreeding depression have also been elucidated in crops. Crop-wild progenitor interactions have provided rich opportunities to study the evolution of novel adaptations subsequent to hybridization. Most crop/wild F1 hybrids have reduced fitness, but in some instances the crop relatives have acquired genes that make them more efficient weeds through crop mimicry. Studies on autopolyploid alfalfa and potato have uncovered the means by which polyploid gametes are formed and have led to hypotheses about how multiallelic interactions are associated with fitness and self-fertility. Research on the cole crops and wheat has discovered that newly formed polyploids can undergo dramatic genome rearrangements that could lead to rapid evolutionary change. Many more important evolutionary discoveries are on the horizon, now that the whole genome sequence is available of the two major subspecies of rice Oryza sativa ssp. japonica and O. sativa ssp. indica. The rice sequence data can be used to study the origin of genes and gene families, track rates of sequence divergence over time, and provide hints about how genes evolve and generate products with novel biological properties. The rice sequence data has already been mined to show that transposable elements often carry fragments of cellular genes. This type of genome shuffling could play a role in creating novel, reorganized genes with new adaptive properties.
16160770	A total of 57 samples of feedstuffs commonly used for animal nutrition in Colombia (corn, soybean, sorghum, cottonseed meal, sunflower seed meal, wheat middlings and rice) were analyzed for Fusarium contamination. Fusarium fungi were identified at species level by means of conventional methods and the ability to produce fumonisins of the most prevailing species was determined. A total of 41 of the feedstuffs analyzed (71.9%) were found to contain Fusarium spp. Most contaminated substrates were corn (100%), cottonseed meal (100%), sorghum (80%), and soybean (80%). Wheat middlings and rice showed lower levels of contamination (40% and 20%, respectively), while no Fusarium spp. could be isolated from sunflower seed meal. The most prevalent species of Fusarium isolated were F. verticilliodes (70.8%), F. proliferatum (25.0%), and F. subglutinans (4.2%). All of them correspond to section Liseola. Production of fumonisins on corn by the isolated Fusarium was screened through liquid chromatography. Almost all strains of F. verticilliodes (97.1%) produced FB1 (5.6-25, 846.4 mg/kg) and FB2 (3.4-7507.5 mg/kg). Similarly, almost all strains of F. proliferatum (91.7%) produced fumonisins but at lower levels than F. verticilliodes (FB1 from 6.9 to 3885.0 mg/kg, and FB2 from 34.3 to 373.8 mg/kg), while F. subglutinans did not produce these toxins. This is the first study in Colombia describing toxigenic Fusarium isolates from animal feedstuffs.
16161924	Serum anti-oxidative barrier is a factor determining active oxygen form suppression. The aim of this study is to investigate superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GP) serum level changes as a marker of its enzymatic barrier efficiency in patients with acute pancreatitis (AP) evaluated by means of Ranson score. Fifty patients with AP were divided onto 2 groups. Group 1 consisted of 22 patients with moderate AP, whose overall standing varied from 3 to 6 points according to Ranson. Group 2 was made of 28 patients with severe AP and 6 or more Ranson scores. Serum activities of SOD and GP were measured on 1st, 3rd 7th, and 10th day of treatment using Martin oxidation method in the former, and Rice-Evans spectrophotometry method in the latter case. Blood SOD activity in Group 1 patients underwent gradual normalization; however in all time intervals it remained statistically higher than in Group 2. The activity of GP was lower than normal in both groups. In moderate AP patient group GP activity differences became statistically significant as late as on the 7th and 10th day of study. Both patient groups differed significantly regarding the GP serum activity. Serum anti-oxidative barrier activity in patients with severe AP was significantly lower than in patients with moderate form of the disease. Along with patient amelioration and inflammation regression the activity of anti-oxidative serum enzymes increased. The estimation of anti-oxidative stress parameters may be useful in disease dynamics monitoring which affects treatment modality.
16161984	A study was made on the physico-chemical characteristics of water samples mixed with effluent discharged from textile industries at Chellandipalayam (Site--I), Senaparatti (Site--II) and Pasupathipalayam (Sites--III and IV) revealed the elevated levels of Ca, Mg, Na, Cr, K, Ni, Cu, Zn, CO3, SO4, NO3 and Cl- . The concentrations of these ions exceeded the limit prescribed by ISI. The increase in the concentrations of ions was revealed by higher values of electrical conductivity (EC). Water at these sites was found to be hard, brackish and unsuitable for drinking purpose. In all these sites, the seed germination of rice alone was significantly affected among the other crops tested. Irrigation of crops with ground water notably lowered the quantity of reserve food in rice, wheat (starch), and sugarcane (sugar), indicating the interference of their metabolic pathway by polluted ground water.
16162235	To determine survival and growth characteristics of Enterobacter sakazakii in infant rice cereal as affected by type of liquid used for reconstitution and storage temperature after reconstitution. A commercially manufactured dry infant rice cereal was reconstituted with water, apple juice, milk, or liquid infant formula, inoculated with a 10-strain mixture of E. sakazakii at populations of 0.27, 0.93, and 9.3 CFU ml(-1), and incubated at 4, 12, 21 or 30 degrees C for up to 72 h. Growth did not occur in cereal reconstituted with apple juice, regardless of storage temperature, or in cereal reconstituted with water, milk, or formula and stored at 4 degrees C. The lag time for growth in cereal reconstituted with water, milk, or formula was decreased as the incubation temperature (12, 21 and 30 degrees C) was increased. Upon reaching maximum populations of 7-8 log10 CFU ml(-1), in some instances populations decreased to nondetectable levels during subsequent storage which was concurrent with decreases in pH. Enterobacter sakazakii initially at very low populations can rapidly grow in infant rice cereal reconstituted with water, milk, or infant formula. Reconstituted infant rice cereal can support luxuriant growth of E. sakazakii. Reconstituted cereal that is not immediately consumed should be discarded or stored at a temperature at which E. sakazakii and other food-borne pathogens cannot grow.
16162286	The Solanaceae is a family of closely related species with diverse phenotypes that have been exploited for agronomic purposes. Previous studies involving a small number of genes suggested sequence conservation across the Solanaceae. The availability of large collections of Expressed Sequence Tags (ESTs) for the Solanaceae now provides the opportunity to assess sequence conservation and divergence on a genomic scale. All available ESTs and Expressed Transcripts (ETs), 449,224 sequences for six Solanaceae species (potato, tomato, pepper, petunia, tobacco and Nicotiana benthamiana), were clustered and assembled into gene indices. Examination of gene ontologies revealed that the transcripts within the gene indices encode a similar suite of biological processes. Although the ESTs and ETs were derived from a variety of tissues, 55-81% of the sequences had significant similarity at the nucleotide level with sequences among the six species. Putative orthologs could be identified for 28-58% of the sequences. This high degree of sequence conservation was supported by expression profiling using heterologous hybridizations to potato cDNA arrays that showed similar expression patterns in mature leaves for all six solanaceous species. 16-19% of the transcripts within the six Solanaceae gene indices did not have matches among Solanaceae, Arabidopsis, rice or 21 other plant gene indices. Results from this genome scale analysis confirmed a high level of sequence conservation at the nucleotide level of the coding sequence among Solanaceae. Additionally, the results indicated that part of the Solanaceae transcriptome is likely to be unique for each species.
16163610	In the present study, we cloned and identified a full-length cDNA of a rice gene, OsBIHD1, encoding a homeodomain type transcriptional factor. OsBIHD1 is predicted to encode a 642 amino acid protein and the deduced protein sequence of OsBIHD1 contains all conserved domains, a homeodomain, a BELL domain, a SKY box, and a VSLTLGL box, which are characteristics of the BELL type homedomain proteins. The recombinant OsBIHD1 protein expressed in Escherichia coli bound to the TGTCA motif that is the characteristic cis-element DNA sequence of the homeodomain transcriptional factors. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that the OsBIHD1 protein localized in the nucleus of the plant cells. The OsBIHD1 gene was mapped to chromosome 3 of the rice genome and is a single-copy gene with four exons and three introns. Northern blot analysis showed that expression of OsBIHD1 was activated upon treatment with benzothiadiazole (BTH), which is capable of inducing disease resistance. Expression of OsBIHD1 was also up-regulated rapidly during the first 6 h after inoculation with Magnaporthe grisea in BTH-treated rice seedlings and during the incompatible interaction between M. grisea and a resistant genotype. These results suggest that OsBIHD1 is a BELL type of homeodomain transcription factor present in the nucleus, whose induction is associated with resistance response in rice.
16164345	The effect of pressure, temperature, HD isotopes, and C isotopes on the kinetics of the OH+CO reaction are investigated using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory. Pressure effects are treated with a step-ladder plus steady-state model and tunneling effects are included. New features include a treatment of the C isotope effect and a proposed nonstatistical effect in the reaction. The latter was prompted by existing kinetic results and molecular-beam data of Simons and co-workers on incomplete intramolecular energy transfer to the highest vibrational frequency mode in HOCO(*). In treating the many kinetic properties two small customary vertical adjustments of the barriers of the two transition states were made. The resulting calculations show reasonable agreement with the experimental data on (1) the pressure and temperature dependence of the HD effect, (2) the pressure-dependent (12)C(13)C isotope effect, (3) the strong non-Arrhenius behavior observed at low temperatures, (4) the high-temperature data, and (5) the pressure dependence of rate constants in various bath gases. The kinetic carbon isotopic effect is usually less than 10 per mil. A striking consequence of the nonstatistical assumption is the removal of a major discrepancy in a plot of the k(OH+CO)k(OD+CO) ratio versus pressure. A prediction is made for the temperature dependence of the OD+CO reaction in the low-pressure limit at low temperatures.
16164561	Photoreduction of dinitrogen by heterocyst-forming cyanobacteria is of great importance ecologically and for subsistence rice agriculture. Their heterocysts must have a glycolipid envelope layer that limits the entry of oxygen if nitrogenase is to remain active to fix dinitrogen in an oxygen-containing milieu (the Fox+ phenotype). Genes alr5354 (hglD), alr5355 (hglC) and alr5357 (hglB) of the filamentous cyanobacterium, Anabaena sp. strain PCC 7120, and hglE of Nostoc punctiforme are required for synthesis of heterocyst envelope glycolipids. Newly identified Fox- mutants bear transposons in nearby open reading frames (orfs) all5343, all5345-asr5349 and alr5351-alr5358. Complementation and other analysis provide evidence that at least orfs all5343 (or a co-transcribed gene), all5345, all5347, alr5348, asr5350-alr5353 and alr5356, but not asr5349, are also required for a Fox+ phenotype. Lipid and sequence analyses suggest that alr5351-alr5357 encode the enzymes that biosynthesize the glycolipid aglycones. Electron microscopy indicates a role of all5345 through all5347 in the normal deposition of the envelope glycolipids.
16166257	Transcription factors (TFs), which are central to the regulation of gene expression, are usually members of multigene families. In plants, they are involved in diverse processes such as developmental control and elicitation of defense and stress responses. To investigate if differences exist in the expansion patterns of TF gene families between plants and other eukaryotes, we first used Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) TFs to identify TF DNA-binding domains. These DNA-binding domains were then used to identify related sequences in 25 other eukaryotic genomes. Interestingly, among 19 families that are shared between animals and plants, more than 14 are larger in plants than in animals. After examining the lineage-specific expansion of TF families in two plants, eight animals, and two fungi, we found that TF families shared among these organisms have undergone much more dramatic expansion in plants than in other eukaryotes. Moreover, this elevated expansion rate of plant TF is not simply due to higher duplication rates of plant genomes but also to a higher degree of expansion compared to other plant genes. Further, in many Arabidopsis-rice (Oryza sativa) TF orthologous groups, the degree of lineage-specific expansion in Arabidopsis is correlated with that in rice. This pattern of parallel expansion is much more pronounced than the whole-genome trend in rice and Arabidopsis. The high rate of expansion among plant TF genes and their propensity for parallel expansion suggest frequent adaptive responses to selection pressure common among higher plants.
16167533	Effects of pre-germinated brown rice (PGBR) on postprandial blood glucose and insulin concentrations were compared with brown rice (BR) and white rice (WR) in two studies. In the first study, we investigated the time course of postprandial blood glucose and insulin concentrations after ingesting 25% (W/V) glucose solution, PGBR, BR or WR in 19 healthy young subjects. In the second study, dose-dependent effect of PGBR on the time course of postprandial blood glucose concentrations was compared among 4 different mixtures of PGBR and WR in 13 healthy young subjects. They were solely PGBR, 2/3 PGBR (PGBR: WR = 2 : 1), 1/3 PGBR (PGBR : WR = 1 : 2) and solely WR. Each sample was studied on a different day. The samples were selected randomly by the subjects. All the rice samples contained 50 g of available carbohydrates. The previous day the subjects ate the assigned dinner by 9:00 pm and then were allowed only water until the examination. The next morning, they ingested each test rice sample with 150 ml of water in 5-10 min. Blood was collected into capillary tubes from finger at 0, 30, 60, 90 and 120 min after the ingestion. The incremental areas under the curve (IAUC) of blood glucose concentrations (IAUC-Glc) for 120 min after the administration of PGBR and BR were lower than those after WR. In contrast the IAUC-Glc of BR and PGBR were not different (Study 1). The higher the ratio of PGBR/WR, the lower the glycemic index became (Study 2). These results suggest that intake of PGBR instead of WR is effective for the control of postprandial blood glucose concentration without increasing the insulin secretion.
16167766	Rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe grisea, is the most important fungal disease of cultivated rice worldwide. We have developed a strategy for creating disease resistance to M. grisea whereby pathogen-induced expression of the afp (antifungal protein) gene from Aspergillus giganteus occurs in transgenic rice plants. Here, we evaluated the activity of the promoters from three maize pathogenesis-related (PR) genes, ZmPR4, mpi, and PRms, in transgenic rice. Chimeric gene fusions were prepared between the maize promoters and the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene (gus A). Histochemical assays of GUS activity in transgenic rice revealed that the ZmPR4 promoter is strongly induced in response to fungal infection, treatment with fungal elicitors, and mechanical wounding. The ZmPR4 promoter is not active in the seed endosperm. The mpi promoter also proved responsiveness to fungal infection and wounding but not to treatment with elicitors. In contrast, no activity of the PRms promoter in leaves of transgenic rice was observed. Transgenic plants expressing the afp gene under the control of the ZmPR4 promoter were generated. Transformants showed resistance to M. grisea at various levels. Our results suggest that pathogen-inducible expression of the afp gene in rice plants may be a practical way for protection against the blast fungus. Most agricultural crop species suffer from a vast array of fungal diseases that cause severe yield losses all over the world. Rice blast, caused by the fungus Magnaporthe grisea (Herbert) Barr (anamorph Pyricularia grisea), is the most devastating disease of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.), due to its
16168362	In the present study, the role of eyestalks and involvement of methionine-enkephalin in the regulation of haemolymph sugar level was studied. Bilateral eyestalk ablation significantly decreased the haemolymph sugar levels, whereas injection of eyestalk extract into ablated crabs significantly increased the haemolymph sugar levels. Total carbohydrate (TCHO) and glycogen levels were significantly increased in hepatopancreas and muscle of eyestalk-ablated crabs, with a decrease in phosphorylase activity. Injection of eyestalk extract into ablated crabs resulted in partial/complete reversal of these changes. Injection of methionine-enkephalin into intact crabs significantly increased the haemolymph sugar level in a dose-dependent manner. Total tissue carbohydrate and glycogen levels were significantly decreased, with an increase in phosphorylase activity in hepatopancreas and muscle tissues of intact crabs after methionine-enkephalin injection. Methionine-enkephalin injection did not cause any changes in haemolymph sugar, tissue total carbohydrate and glycogen levels and activity levels of phosphorylase in eyestalk-ablated crabs. These results suggest that the eyestalks are the main source of hyperglycaemic hormone and methionine-enkephalin induces hyperglycaemia through eyestalks.
16169685	The aci-reductone dioxygenase (ARD) family common to bacteria, plants and animals is involved in the methionine salvage pathway. A water-deficit-suppressed gene, OsARD encoding an aci-reductone-dioxygenase-like protein, was identified from rice (Oryza sativa L.). Northern blot and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed that the OsARD expression is regulated by abiotic stresses and phytohormones. OsARD was mainly expressed in roots under flood conditions. It was suppressed by abiotic stresses including water deficit, high salinity and low temperature, and induced by ethylene and gibberellin acid (GA). Our results showed that the genes for S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) synthase and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) synthase were upregulated in RNA-interference (RNAi) transgenic rice plants with a significant reduction of OsARD expression. Furthermore, the expression of two genes for ethylene signal transduction, ETR2 and EIN3, increased in these RNAi transgenic plants, whereas the expression of ERF3 was suppressed. These results suggest that OsARD may play a role in the metabolism of methionine and ethylene in response to abiotic stresses.
16169967	Programmed cell death (PCD) of epidermal cells that cover adventitious root primordia in deepwater rice (Oryza sativa) is induced by submergence. Early suicide of epidermal cells may prevent injury to the growing root that emerges under flooding conditions. Induction of PCD is dependent on ethylene signaling and is further promoted by gibberellin (GA). Ethylene and GA act in a synergistic manner, indicating converging signaling pathways. Treatment of plants with GA alone did not promote PCD. Treatment with the GA biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol resulted in increased PCD in response to ethylene and GA presumably due to an increased sensitivity of epidermal cells to GA. Abscisic acid (ABA) was shown to efficiently delay ethylene-induced as well as GA-promoted cell death. The results point to ethylene signaling as a target of ABA inhibition of PCD. Accumulation of ethylene and GA and a decreased ABA level in the rice internode thus favor induction of epidermal cell death and ensure that PCD is initiated as an early response that precedes adventitious root growth.
16170019	While brown rice is a staple dietary constituent in Asia, rice consumed in the Western world is generally white, obtained from brown rice by removal of the bran. Rice bran contains the flavone tricin, which has been shown to inhibit colon cancer cell growth. We tested the hypothesis that tricin interferes with adenoma formation in the Apc(Min) mouse. Mice received tricin (0.2%) in their American Institute of Nutrition 93G diet throughout their postweaning life span (4-18 weeks). Consumption of tricin reduced numbers of intestinal adenomas by 33% (P < 0.05) compared with mice on control diet. We explored whether tricin may exert its effect via inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes. Its effect on COX activity was assessed in purified enzyme preparations in vitro and its ability to reduce prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) levels in human colon-derived human colon epithelial cell (HCEC) and HCA-7 cells in vitro and in Apc(Min) mice in vivo. Tricin inhibited activity of purified COX-1 and COX-2 enzyme preparations with IC(50) values of approximately 1 micromol/L. At 5 micromol/L, it reduced PGE(2) production in HCEC or HCA-7 cells by 36% (P < 0.01) and 35% (P < 0.05), respectively. COX-2 expression was reduced by tricin weakly in HCEC and unaffected in HCA-7 cells. PGE(2) levels in the small intestinal mucosa and blood of Apc(Min) mice that had received tricin were reduced by 34% (P < 0.01) and 40% (P < 0.05), respectively, compared with control mice. The results suggest that tricin should be further evaluated as a putative colorectal cancer chemopreventive agent.
16170223	Cyclic and pseudocyclic instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA) has been used to determine the Se content of 40 Libyan food items. The selected samples include different varieties of local and imported foods such as wheat and barley products (bran and flours), rice, bread, almond, peanuts, vegetables as bean and peas, tea, coffee, sugar, and commonly used spices such as red and black paper, curry, cumin, mixture of spices, thyme, coriander, and fenugreek. Both conventional and anticoincidence gamma-ray spectrometry techniques have been employed. Pseudocyclic INAA in conjunction with anticoincidence counting has been found to provide the most reliable results. The precision of the method has been significantly improved by recycling the samples up to three times. The accuracy has been evaluated by analyzing a number of certified reference materials of varied Se levels. The detection limit has been found to vary between 26 and 90 ppb Se depending on the sample composition. The range of daily dietary intake has been calculated as 13-44 microg of Se per day.
16170454	Plants possess photoreceptors to perceive light which controls most aspects of their lives. Three photoreceptor families are well characterized: cryptochromes (crys), phototropins (phots), and phytochromes (phys). Two putative families have been identified more recently: Zeitlupes (ZTLs) and UV-B photoreceptors (ULI). Using Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa photoreceptor sequences as references, we have searched for photoreceptor encoding genes in the major phyla of plant kingdom. For each photoreceptor family, using a phylogenetic tree based on the alignment of conserved amino acid sequences, we have tried to trace back the evolution and the emergence of the diverse photoreceptor ancestral sequences. The green alga Chlamydomonas contains one cry and one phot sequence, probably close to the corresponding ancestral sequences, and no phy-related sequence. The putative UV-B photoreceptors seem to be restricted to the Brassicacae. Except for mosses and ferns, which contain divergent photoreceptor numbers, the composition of the diverse photoreceptor families is conserved between species. A high conservation of the residues within domains is observed in each photoreceptor family. The complete phylogenic analysis of the photoreceptor families in plants has confirmed the existence of crucial evolutionary nodes between the major phyla. For each photoreceptor class, a major duplication occurred before the separation between Mono- and Eudicotyledons. This allowed postulating on the putative ancestral function of the photoreceptors.
16170456	The TFL1 and FT genes, which are key genes in the control of flowering time in Arabidopsis thaliana, belong to a small multigene family characterized by a specific phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein domain, termed the PEBP gene family. Several PEBP genes are found in dicots and monocots, and act on the control of flowering time. We investigated the evolution of the PEBP gene family in cereals. First, taking advantage of the complete rice genome sequence and EST databases, we found 19 PEBP genes in this species, 6 of which were not previously described. Ten genes correspond to five pairs of paralogs mapped on known duplicated regions of the rice genome. Phylogenetic analysis of Arabidopsis and rice genes indicates that the PEBP gene family consists of three main homology classes (the so-called TFL1-LIKE, MFT-LIKE, and FT-LIKE subfamilies), in which gene duplication and/or loss occurred independently in Arabidopsis and rice. Second, phylogenetic analyses of genomic and EST sequences from five cereal species indicate that the three subfamilies of PEBP genes have been conserved in cereals. The tree structure suggests that the ancestral grass genome had at least two MFT-like genes, two TFL1-like genes, and eight FT-like genes. A phylogenomic approach leads to some hypotheses about conservation of gene function within the subfamilies.
16171677	Production of d-lactic acid from rice bran, one of the most abundant agricultural by-products in Japan, is studied. Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. delbrueckii IFO 3202 and defatted rice bran powder after squeezing rice oil were used for the production. Since the rice bran contains polysaccharides as starch and cellulose, we coupled saccharification with amylase and cellulase to lactic acid fermentation. The indigenous bacteria in the rice bran produced racemic lactic acid in the saccharification at pH 6.0-6.8. Thus the pH was controlled at 5.0 to suppress the growth of the indigenous bacteria. L. delbrueckii IFO 3202 produced 28 kgm(-3) lactic acid from 100 kgm(-3) rice bran after 36 h at 37 degrees C. The yield based on the amount of sugars soluble after 36-h hydrolysis of the bran by amylase and cellulase (36 kgm(-3) from 100 kgm(-3) of the bran) was 78%. The optical purity of produced d-lactic acid was 95% e.e.
16171825	A statistical method is presented to characterize the degree of order in phyllotactic systems. We developed equations allowing the theoretical estimation of the number of leaves regularly distributed (spiral or verticillate) in a partially random phyllotactic system. The equations are simple and accurate enough to make quantitative predictions concerning the organization of different phyllotactic patterns (verticillate, distichous, spiral and random). This method can bring out patterns that are not visible a priori on a planar representation of the shoot apex. As a case study, the method was applied to the quantitative analysis of the sho mutants recently produced by Itoh et al. [2000. SHOOT ORGANIZATION genes regulate shoot apical meristem organization and the pattern of leaf primordium initiation in Rice. Plant Cell 12, 2161-2174]. By using our method, it was possible to predict the number of leaves distributed in distichous or random patterns on these phyllotactic mutants.
16172097	RNA silencing with inverted repeat (IR) constructs has been used to suppress gene expression in various organisms. However, the transitive RNA-silencing effect described in plants may preclude the use of RNA silencing for a gene family. Here, we show that, in rice (Oryza sativa), transitive RNA silencing (spreading of double-stranded RNA along the target mRNA) occurred with the green fluorescent protein transgene but not with the endogenous phytoene desaturase gene. We fused IR copies of unique 3' untranslated regions derived from the rice OsRac gene family to a strong promoter and stably introduced them into rice. Each of the seven members of the OsRac gene family was specifically suppressed by its respective IR construct. We also examined IR constructs in which multiple 3' untranslated regions were fused and showed that three members of the OsRac gene family were effectively suppressed by a single construct. Using highly conserved regions of the two members of the OsRac gene family, we also suppressed the expression of all members of the gene family with variable efficiencies. These results suggest that RNA silencing is a useful method for the functional analysis of gene families in rice and other plants.
16172521	The perianths of Liliaceae plants, such as lily and tulip, have two whorls of almost identical petaloid organs, which are called tepals. According to the modified ABC model proposed in tulip, the class B genes are expressed in whorl 1 as well as whorls 2 and 3, so that the organs of whorls 1 and 2 have the same petaloid structure. The floral structure of asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.) is similar to that of Liliaceae plants, however, the expression of B-class genes (AODEF, AOGLOA, AOGLOB) was not found in whorl 1, but was confined to whorls 2 and 3. This result does not support the modified ABC model in asparagus. In order to gain a better understanding of asparagus flower development, we have characterized a genomic clone of the AODEF gene. We compared the genomic organization and promoter sequence of AODEF with three well-studied DEF-like genes, DEFICIENS (Antirrhinum), APETALA3 (Arabidopsis), and OSMADS16 (rice). Exon-intron structures of these genes are well-conserved except for the large fifth intron in the AODEF gene and the OSMADS16 gene. Putative cis-elements including CArG-boxes were found in the promoter region and forty-two microsatellites were found in the AODEF genomic sequence.
16172525	Of the rice species with an AA genome, Oryza meridionalis has been identified in northern Australia as a species of the annual type, among those previously classified as Oryza perennis, Oryza rufipogon or Oryza nivara. This notion has, however, led to some confusion to determine which strains belong to O. meridionalis and how different these strains are from the O. rufipogon strains of the annual type. In this paper, we examined Australian wild rice strains for the presence or absence of p-SINE1 members, which have been used for identification of the strains of species with the AA genome, by PCR using primers that hybridize to the sequences flanking each p-SINE1 member. The rice strains examined include perennial and annual strains, which have previously been described as O. rufipogon. We found that all the annual strains and other strains, whose types have not been determined, have p-SINE1 members that are specifically present at the corresponding loci in the standard strains of O. meridionalis, but do not have those which are specifically present at the corresponding loci in the strains of the other species with the AA genome. The perennial strains, however, have p-SINE1 members that are specifically present at the corresponding loci in the standard O. rufipogon strains of either the annual or the perennial type, but do not have those which are specifically present at the corresponding loci in the strains of the other species with the AA genome, including O. meridionalis. These findings support the previous notion that O. meridionalis consists of the annual strains and is a distinct species from O. rufipogon. The p-SINE1 members used in this study appear to be very useful for classification of any wild rice strains of the AA-genome species, even when one has limited knowledge of morphology, taxonomy, physiology, and biochemistry of rice strains.
16172526	Members of the NAC gene family encode plant-specific transcription factors and are widely distributed in plant species. The OsNAC6 gene is one of many NAC genes in rice and has high similarity to genes in the ATAF subfamily. Here we show that OsNAC6 is induced by cold, salt, drought and abscisic acid (ABA). We found that OsNAC6 is also induced by wounding. The response of OsNAC6 to wounding is very rapid and strong. OsNAC6 was also induced by jasmonic acid (JA), a plant hormone that activates defense responses against herbivores and pathogens. Our results imply that OsNAC6, besides having a role in plant adaptation to abiotic stresses, also integrates signals derived from both abiotic and biotic stresses.
16172527	A new class I foldback element, Folbos, has been discovered in O. sativa L. Its long terminal inverted repeats (IVRs) are 303 and 331 bp long and the left one encodes a short open reading frame of 76 codons. The IVRs consist of inner and outer domains, the latter built up of 6 tandem repeats of about 30 bp each. The central region is represented by 90 bp conservative stretch adjacent to a variable length (19-33 bp) A-tail, which in most cases includes the sequence 5'-TGACTT-3'. Folbos targets AT-rich regions and the insertion results in 7 bp target site duplications. Half of the copies found in annotated sequences of O. sativa japonica cv. Nipponbare are positioned in close proximity to (< 1kb) or within the transcribed regions, thus they have the potential to contribute to plant genome evolution.
16172529	p-SINE1 was the first plant SINE element identified in the Waxy gene in Oryza sativa, and since then a large number of p-SINE1-family members have been identified from rice species with the AA or non-AA genome. In this paper, we report two new rice SINE elements, designated p-SINE2 and p-SINE3, which form distinct families from that of p-SINE1. Each of the two new elements is significantly homologous to p-SINE1 in their 5'-end regions with that of the polymerase III promoter (A box and B box), but not significantly homologous in the 3'-end regions, although they all have a T-rich tail at the 3' terminus. Despite the three elements sharing minimal homology in their 3'-end regions, the deduced RNA secondary structures of p-SINE1, p-SINE2 and p-SINE3 were found to be similar to one another, such that a stem-loop structure seen in the 3'-end region of each element is well conserved, suggesting that the structure has an important role on the p-SINE retroposition. These findings suggest that the three p-SINE elements originated from a common ancestor. Similar to members of the p-SINE1 family, the members of p-SINE2 or p-SINE3 are almost randomly dispersed in each of the 12 rice chromosomes, but appear to be preferentially inserted into gene-rich regions. The p-SINE2 members were present at respective loci not only in the strains of the species with the AA genome in the O. sativa complex, but also in those of other species with the BB, CC, DD, or EE genome in the O. officinalis complex. The p-SINE3 members were, however, only present in strains of species in the O. sativa complex. These findings suggest that p-SINE2 originated in an ancestral species with the AA, BB, CC, DD and EE genomes, like p-SINE1, whereas p-SINE3 originated in an ancestral strain of the species with the AA genome. The nucleotide sequences of p-SINE1 members are more divergent than those of p-SINE2 or p-SINE3, indicating that p-SINE1 is likely to be older than p-SINE2 and p-SINE3. This suggests that p-SINE2 and p-SINE3 have been derived from p-SINE1.
16172530	This study examines the relationship between DNA sequence variation and level of gene expression in four metallothionein genes from wild rice Oryza rufipogon. The nucleotide diversity was 0.0028 to 0.0117 over the entire coding and non-coding region, and it was negatively correlated with gene expression for three type 2 metallothionein genes. In contrast, codon bias and percent of preferred codons correlated positively with gene expression. These results indicate that the intensity of natural selection depends on the level of gene expression, which in turn shapes the level of nucleotide polymorphism. In addition, significant linkage disequilibria were frequent between the metallothionein genes, although significance was not confirmed after multiple test correction. This result suggests that metallothionein genes expressed at different levels are epistatic with respect to fitness, and that gene expression is an important factor determining level of DNA polymorphism.
16172692	Burkholderia plantarii, a bacterial pathogen on rice, produced compounds in liquid culture that gave strong inhibitory action against Erwinia amylovora, the bacterium responsible for fire blight disease of apple and pear trees. The active component was hydrophilic and ionic, and was fractionated extensively by passage through SP, DEAE, and LH20 Sephadexes. Final purification was achieved by reverse phase chromatography on C(18)-bonded silica. Biological activity was associated with two compounds detectable by HPLC (UV lambda 218 nm). A third related compound was non-active. The chemical structures of the pure compounds were deduced by NMR and MS, and corroborated by chemical synthesis which also verified the stereochemical assignments. Thus, the two active compounds are reported herewith as 2-imino-3-methylene-5-L(carboxy-L-valyl)-pyrrolidine, and 2-imino-3-methylene-5-L(carboxy-L-threoninyl)-pyrrolidine. The non-active component was deduced to be 2-imino-5-L(carboxy-L-threoninyl)-pyrrolidine.
16172918	A novel C2H2-type zinc finger protein gene, ZFP 15, was cloned from rice by RT-PCR approach. The ZFP 15 gene encodes a protein of 144 amino acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 15 kDa. The ZFP 15 protein comprises two C2H2-type zinc finger domains, a putative nuclear localization signal (NLS) at its N-terminus but the DLN-box identified in all reported plant C2H2-type zinc finger proteins was not found. A homology search revealed that ZFP 15 gene was localized within a cluster of C2H2-type zinc finger genes in BAC clone OJ1754_E06 mapped on chromosome 3. All three members in the cluster encoded proteins showed high identities in amino acids and might contribute to a co-regulation. The RT-PCR assay revealed that ZFP 15 mRNA was not regulated by cold, salt, drought and ABA stresses, though CRT/DRE and ABRE elements were found in the promoter region of ZFP 15 gene. The expression profiling also showed that ZFP 15 mRNA was expressed with a lower level in leaves and roots, but not detected in stems. Besides, ZFP15 was shown to accumulate much more in flowering spike than in immature spike. Thus, ZFP15, as the first characterized C2H2-type zinc finger protein in rice, might play a regulatory role on rice spike development.
16173457	The release levels of a growth inhibitor, momilactone B, from rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings of eight cultivars were compared with the endogenous concentrations of momilactone B in their seedlings. All rice cultivars contained momilactone B in the seedlings, and their concentrations differed between the cultivars. Momilactone B was also found in all culture solutions in which these rice seedlings were grown, and the concentrations differed between the cultivars. The momilactone B concentrations in the culture solutions were reflected in the momilactone B concentrations in the seedlings. These results suggest that all rice cultivars may produce momilactone B and release momilactone B into the culture solutions. In addition, the release level of momilactone B may depend on the production level of momilactone B in the seedlings, which may affect allelopathic potential of these rice cultivars because as a growth inhibitor, momilactone B is able to act as an allelochemical.
16173463	The role of H2O2 in abscisic acid (ABA)-induced NH4+ accumulation in rice leaves was investigated. ABA treatment resulted in an accumulation of NH4+ in rice leaves, which was preceded by a decrease in the activity of glutamine synthetase (GS) and an increase in the specific activities of protease and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL). GS, PAL, and protease seem to be the enzymes responsible for the accumulation of NH4+ in ABA-treated rice leaves. Dimethylthiourea (DMTU), a chemical trap for H2O2, was observed to be effective in inhibiting ABA-induced accumulation of NH4+ in rice Leaves. Inhibitors of NADPH oxidase, diphenyleneiodonium chloride (DPI) and imidazole (IMD), and nitric oxide donor (N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone, PBN), which have previously been shown to prevent ABA-induced increase in H2O2 contents in rice leaves, inhibited ABA-induced increase in the content of NH4+. Similarly, the changes of enzymes responsible for NH4+ accumulation induced by ABA were observed to be inhibited by DMTU, DPI, IMD, and PBN. Exogenous application of H2O2 was found to increase NH4+ content, decrease GS activity, and increase protease and PAL-specific activities in rice leaves. Our results suggest that H2O2 is involved in ABA-induced NH4+ accumulation in rice leaves.
16173467	OsRAA1, as previously reported, is a novel conserved protein in plants and plays an important role in rice root development. Overexpression of OsRAA1 results in reduced growth of primary roots and an increased number of adventitious roots. The biochemical functions and expression patterns of OsRAA1, however, remain poorly understood. To obtain purified OsRAA1 for biochemical analysis, the coding region was amplified by RT-PCR and expressed as a fusion protein with glutathione S-transferase in Escherichia coli. The antibodies to OsRAA1 were prepared by a synthetic 15-residue peptide (YYEDPSLFQFHKRGS) cross-linked with bovine serum albumin. Results of isotope labeling experiments suggested that OsRAA1 had binding activities with [alpha-32P]-GTP. The immunoprecipitation data showed that OsRAA1 had tissue-specific expression in roots and spikes rather than young shoots and leaves, which was consistent with its transcriptional expression. Our results indicate that OsRAA1 GTP-binding activity may contribute to the regulation mechanism of root development mediated by OsRAA1.
16175206	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice. We have identified a Tn5-induced virulence-deficient mutant (BXO1704) of X. oryzae pv. oryzae. The BXO1704 mutant exhibited growth deficiency in minimal medium but was proficient in inducing a hypersensitive response in a non-host tomato plant. Sequence analysis of the chromosomal DNA flanking the Tn5 insertion indicated that the Tn5 insertion is in the purH gene, which is highly homologous to purH genes of other closely related plant pathogenic bacteria Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri and Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris. Purine supplementation reversed the growth deficiency of BXO1704 in minimal medium. These results suggest that the virulence deficiency of BXO1704 may be due to the inability to use sufficient purine in the host.
16175457	Eucalyptus L'Hérit. is a genus comprised of more than 700 species that is of vital importance ecologically to Australia and to the forestry industry world-wide, being grown in plantations for the production of solid wood products as well as pulp for paper. With the sequencing of the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa and the recent completion of the first tree genome sequence, Populus trichocarpa, attention has turned to the current status of genomic research in Eucalyptus. For several eucalypt species, large segregating families have been established, high-resolution genetic maps constructed and large EST databases generated. Collaborative efforts have been initiated for the integration of diverse genomic projects and will provide the framework for future research including exploiting the sequence of the entire eucalypt genome which is currently being sequenced. This review summarises the current position of genomic research in Eucalyptus and discusses the direction of future research.
16176108	BpHi006A cDNA is 1943 bp in length, and contains one putative open reading frame that is 795 bp long. The expression of BpHi006A was induced by BPH feeding. BpHi006A protein contains a N-terminal domain and a C-terminal domain of glutathione S-transferase, and therefore, it belongs to the superfamily of glutathione S-transferase. BpHi006A protein exhibited 61% amino acid sequence identity to tetrachloro-p-hydroquinone reductive dehalogenase-related protein of Arabidopsis thaliana. Sequence analysis of these two proteins indicates that they belong to a new group of plant GSTs.
16176650	Methods are developed to extract and quantitate the avicide 3-chloro-p-toluidine hydrochloride (CPT HCl) from rough-hulled rice and ethyl-cellulose-coated rice baits using high-performance liquid chromatography. The mobile phase used in the ethyl-cellulose-coated rice matrix method is an acetonitrile(ACN)-phosphate buffer (60:40) at pH 8, and the rough-hulled rice matrix method uses an CAN-phosphate (70:30) buffer at pH 2. Increased retention time is observed for CPT HCl at the higher pH. The two methods have been useful in characterizing different bait formulations in an ongoing pesticide formulation improvement program.
16177899	Monosomic alien addition lines (MAALs) are valuable materials for comparative analyses of two distinct genomes, for elucidating introgression mechanisms, and for dissecting genes controlling complex traits. In the study reported here, MAALs of rice containing the complete genome of Oryza sativa and individual chromosomes of Oryza officinalis were produced. Interspecific hybridizations were made between O. sativa L. ssp. Japonica (CV, Hejiang 19, 2 n = 24, AA) and O. officinalis (Acc. HY018, 2 n = 24, CC). Two backcrosses were made to the cultivated rice to obtain BC2F1 plants. Through RFLP and GISH analyses, 25 MAALs (2 n = 25, AA + 1C) were identified and divided into 12 syntenic groups, designated MAALs 1-12. MAALs 1, 2, 3, 5, 7 and 10 were each represented by one plant, MAALs 8, 11 and 12 by two plants, MAALs 6 and 9 by four plants, and MAAL 4 by five plants. An ideogram of the C-genome of O. officinalis was constructed, based on GISH analysis of the interspecific hybrid and the MAALs. Comparative RFLP maps showed strong syntenic associations between the A-genomes and C-genomes. Chromosomal arrangements such as translocations and duplications were detected in different alien chromosomes of the MAALs. The complete set of O. officinalis MAALs generated here provides a novel manipulation platform for exploiting and utilizing the O. officinalis genome and carrying out genetic studies.
16177904	Wide compatibility varieties (WCVs) are a special class of rice (Oryza sativa L.) germplasm that produces hybrids with normal pollen and spikelet fertility when crossed with both indica and japonica subspecies. The wide compatibility gene S5 (n) has been used extensively in inter-subspecific hybrid breeding programs. We previously mapped the S5 locus to a 2.2-cM genomic region between RM253 and R2349 on chromosome 6, using a population of 356 F(1) plants derived from the three-way cross 02428/Nanjing11//Balilla. In this study, a chromosome walking strategy was employed to construct a physical map covering this genomic region using these two closest markers as the starting points. A physical map consisting of six overlapping BAC clones was formed, spanning a genomic region of 540-kb in length. By analyzing recombination events from a population of 8,000 F(1) plants derived from a three-way cross based on near isogenic lines of the S5 locus, the S5 locus was localized to a DNA fragment of 40-kb in length, flanked by two shotgun subclones, 7B1 and 15D2. Sequence analysis of this fragment predicted five open reading frames, encoding xyloglucan fucosyltransferases, dnak-type molecular chaperone BiP, a putative eukaryotic aspartyl protease, and a hypothetical protein. This result will be very useful in molecular cloning of the S5 (n) allele and marker-assisted transferring of the wide compatibility gene in rice breeding programs.
16179990	Proline accumulation and catabolism play significant roles in adaptation to a variety of plant stresses including osmotic stress, drought, temperature, freezing, UV irradiation, heavy metals and pathogen infection. In this study, the gene Delta1 -pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase (P5CDH), which catalyzes the second step in the conversion of proline to glutamate, is characterized in a number of cereal species. P5CDH genes from hexaploid wheat, Triticum turgidum (durum wheat), Aegilops tauschii, Triticum monococcum, barley, maize and rice were shown to be conserved in terms of gene structure and sequence, present as a single copy per haploid, non-polyploid genome and located in evolutionarily conserved linkage groups. A wheat cDNA sequence was shown by yeast complementation to encode a functional P5CDH activity. A divergently-transcribed rab7 gene was identified immediately 5' of P5CDH in all grasses examined, except rice. The rab7/P5CDH intergenic region in these species, which presumably encompasses 5' regulatory elements of both genes, showed a distinct pattern of sequence evolution with sequences in juxtaposition to each ORF conserved between barley, wheat, A. tauschii and T. monococcum. More distal 5' sequence in this intergenic region showed a higher rate of divergence, with no homology observed between these regions in the wheat and barley genomes. Maize and rice showed no similarity in regions 5' of P5CDH when compared with wheat, barley, and each other, apart from a 22 bp region of conserved non-coding sequence (CNS) that is similar to a proline response element identified in the promoter of the Arabidopsis proline dehydrogenase gene. A palindromic motif similar to this cereal CNS was also identified 5' of the Arabidopsis AtP5CDH gene showing conservation of this sequence in monocot and dicot lineages.
16180086	In the present study, we report the effect of vitamin A (Vit A, retinol palpitate) on kidney lipid peroxidation and 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) levels induced after Escherichia coli administration to guinea pigs. Vit A was administrated intraperitoneally (i.p.) to guinea pigs at a dose 15,000 IU/kg per day for 7 days prior to E. coli injection. On day 8, the animals were injected i.p. with E. coli dosed at 12 x10(9) colony forming units per kilogram. Kidneys were collected 6 h after administration of E. coli. Malondialdehyde (MDA) as a lipid peroxidation product, and 3-NT levels were measured by reverse phase high-performance liquid chromatography. There was a significant increase in MDA and 3-NT levels in lipopolysaccaharide-induced group (p<0.001). 3-NT was not detectable in kidney of normal control animals. However, Vit A administration prior to E. coli injection prevented 3-NT formation but did not prevent the rice in MDA level of kidney (p<0.001). Vit A alone did not alter the MDA level in the kidney of the control group.
16180747	Using four types of rice, i. e., indica-japonica hybrid, intermediate hybrid, indica and japonica cultivars as test materials, this paper studied the sensitivity of intersubspecific hybrid rice to climatic factors, and the correlations between spikelet fertilization rate (SFR) and daily meteorological factors during 2000 and 2001. The results showed that the SFR of intersubspecific hybrids was lower than that of indica and japonica cultivars. Among eleven meteorological factors, temperature was the key factor, and the mean temperature within five or seven days around panicle flower blooming affected the SFR significantly. A comprehensive model of SFR-temperature was established, with which, the fittest temperature and safe temperature for fertilization of intersubspecific hybrids was estimated to be 28.2 - 29.3 degrees C and 23.4 - 24.3 degrees C, 2.2 degrees C and 1.5 degrees C higher than those of indica and japonica cultivars, respectively. It was suggested that the safe heading date for planting intersubspecific hybrid should be moved up to the last ten-day of September to the first ten-day of October in southern China, the first ten-day of September in middle and lower reaches of Yangtze River Valley, and the last ten-day of August to the first ten-day of September in rice planting area between Yangtze and Huai River.
16180755	By the methods of community ecology, field studies were conducted to evaluate the control effects of three weed management strategies, i. e., rice-duck farming (RD), manual weeding (MW) and chemical weeding (CW), on the weed communities in paddy fields. The results showed that under rice-duck farming, the weed density in paddy fields decreased significantly, and the control effects on dominant weed species such as Monochoria vaginalis, Cyperus difformis, Sagittaria pygmaea were all above 95%, with an overall effect higher than CW and MW. Under RD, the species richness and Shannon-Wiener diversity indices decreased slightly, while Pielou community evenness indices increased markedly, indicating that the species composition of weed community was greatly improved, and the infestation of former dominant weed species was reduced. The structure of weed communities in paddy fields varied with different weed management strategies, e. g., under RD, Lindernia procumbens, Cyperus difformis and Fimbristylis miliacea constituted the major weed community, and the Whittaker index was significant higher than that of CW, MW and CK, which indicated that rice-duck farming had a greater effect on the structure of the weed communities. The same conclusion could be drawn from Sorensen's similarity indices and cluster analysis with Sorensen's index as the distance measurement.
16180760	With electronic monitoring system (EMS) and honeydew measurement, this paper determined the virulence of Sogatella furcifera field populations in Fuyang County of Zhejiang Province and Changfeng County of Anhui Province. The results showed that in the three EMS recording periods (2, 4 and 6 h), the ratios of phloem ingestion duration to susceptible rice variety TN1 (check) and highly resistant variety RHT were relatively stable. Two hours duration was defined as the shortest period to detect the virulence of S. furcifera field population by EMS. The amounts of honeydew excreted by S. furcifera field population on rice varieties N22, ARC, ADR52 and ND in Fuyang County, which carried the dominant resistance gene Wbph 1, Wbph 2, Wbph 3 and Wbph 5, respectively, were not significantly different from each other, but significantly lower than that on TN1. The durations of phloem ingestion on ARC and ADR52 were not significantly different, but significantly shorter than that on TN1. For the field population in Changfeng County, the amounts of honeydew excreted by S. furcifera did not differ significantly on N22 and ARC or on ADR52 and ND, but the honeydew on the former two rice varieties was significantly more than that on the latter two. The duration of phloem ingestion on ADR52 (22.3 min x 2 h(-1)) was significantly shorter than that on ARC (49.8 min x 2 h(-1)). Therefore, the virulence of S. furcifera field population in Fuyang County had no changes, whereas in Changfeng County, the population showed a definite adaptation to N22 and ARC, displaying the trend of virulence shift. Electronic monitoring system provided a new means for rapidly and accurately detecting the virulence and monitoring its change of S. furcifera field population.
16182524	To ensure Escherichia coli reduction during cattle feces composting, co-composting with a variety of organic wastes was examined. A mixture of dairy cattle feces and shredded rice straw (control) was blended with organic wastes (tofu residue, rice bran, rapeseed meal, dried chicken feces, raw chicken feces, or garbage), and composted using a bench-scale composter under the high-moisture condition (78%). The addition of organic waste except chicken feces brought about maximum temperatures of more than 55 degrees C and significantly reduced the number of E. coli from 10(6) to below 10(2)CFU/g-wet after seven days composting, while in the control treatment, E. coli survived at the same level as that of raw feces. Enhancements of the thermophilic phase and E. coli reduction were related to the initial amount of easily digestible carbon in mass determined as BOD. BOD value more than 166.2 mg O2/DMg brought about significant E. coli reduction.
16183566	Plant lectins, a unique group of proteins and glycoproteins with potent biological activity, occur in foods like wheat, corn, tomato, peanut, kidney bean, banana, pea, lentil, soybean, mushroom, rice, and potato. Thus, dietary intakes by humans can be significant. Many lectins resist digestion, survive gut passage, and bind to gastrointestinal cells and/or enter the circulation intact, maintaining full biological activity. Several lectins have been found to possess anticancer properties in vitro, in vivo, and in human case studies; they are used as therapeutic agents, preferentially binding to cancer cell membranes or their receptors, causing cytotoxicity, apoptosis, and inhibition of tumor growth. These compounds can become internalized into cells, causing cancer cell agglutination and/or aggregation. Ingestion of lectins also sequesters the available body pool of polyamines, thereby thwarting cancer cell growth. They also affect the immune system by altering the production of various interleukins, or by activating certain protein kinases. Lectins can bind to ribosomes and inhibit protein synthesis. They also modify the cell cycle by inducing non-apoptotic G1-phase accumulation mechanisms, G2/M phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, and can activate the caspase cascade. Lectins can also downregulate telomerase activity and inhibit angiogenesis. Although lectins seem to have great potential as anticancer agents, further research is still needed and should include a genomic and proteomic approach.
16183700	That plant dwarfism is caused by hormonal defects related to gibberellin and brassinosteroid has been well documented. Other contributing elements, however, have not been elucidated. Here, we report on one of the most severe dwarf mutants of rice, dwarf bamboo shoot 1 (dbs1). Most mutant plants died within 1 month after sowing, but a few (5.2%) survived and grew. Vacuolation enlarged cells in the leaf primordia and seminal root before abortion, which disrupted the organized cell files in these organs. Relative to the severe defects in shoot and root growth, the overall structure of the dbs1 embryo was almost normal. Similarly, initiation and organogenesis of the leaf primordia at the shoot apical meristem and those of the lateral root primordia at the root elongation zone occurred normally. These observations suggest that DBS1 is involved in the growth and development of organs but not in organ initiation or organogenesis. Positional cloning of DBS1 revealed that it encoded a NACK-type kinesin-like protein (OsNACK), homologous to the essential components of a mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade during plant cytokinesis. A BLAST search indicated that DBS1 was the only gene encoding the OsNACK-type protein in the rice genome, and the dbs1 mutant produced only small amounts of the translatable DBS1 mRNA. Thus, we conclude that the dbs1 mutation causes a severe defect in DBS1 function but does not completely shut it down. We discuss the leaky phenotype of dbs1 under the restricted functioning of OsNACK.
16183841	Rice (Oryza sativa), a salt-sensitive species, has considerable genetic variation for salt tolerance within the cultivated gene pool. Two indica rice genotypes, FL478, a recombinant inbred line derived from a population developed for salinity tolerance studies, and IR29, the sensitive parent of the population, were selected for this study. We used the Affymetrix rice genome array containing 55,515 probe sets to explore the transcriptome of the salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive genotypes under control and salinity-stressed conditions during vegetative growth. Response of the sensitive genotype IR29 is characterized by induction of a relatively large number of probe sets compared to tolerant FL478. Salinity stress induced a number of genes involved in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway in IR29 but not in FL478. Cell wall-related genes were responsive in both genotypes, suggesting cell wall restructuring is a general adaptive mechanism during salinity stress, although the two genotypes also had some differences. Additionally, the expression of genes mapping to the Saltol region of chromosome 1 were examined in both genotypes. Single-feature polymorphism analysis of expression data revealed that IR29 was the source of the Saltol region in FL478, contrary to expectation. This study provides a genome-wide transcriptional analysis of two well-characterized, genetically related rice genotypes differing in salinity tolerance during a gradually imposed salinity stress under greenhouse conditions.
16183843	Plant genomes are rich in long terminal repeat retrotransposons, and here we describe a plant-specific lineage of Ty1/copia elements called the Sireviruses. The Sireviruses vary greatly in their genomic organization, and many have acquired additional coding information in the form of an envelope-like open reading frame and an extended gag gene. Two-hybrid screens were conducted with the novel domain of Gag (the Gag extension) encoded by a representative Sirevirus from maize (Zea mays) called Hopie. The Hopie Gag extension interacts with a protein related to dynein light chain 8 (LC8). LC8 also interacts with the Gag extension from a Hopie homolog from rice (Oryza sativa). Amino acid motifs were identified in both Hopie Gag and LC8 that are responsible for the interaction. Two amino acids critical for Gag recognition map within the predicted LC8-binding cleft. Two-hybrid screens were also conducted with the Gag extension encoded by the soybean (Glycine max) SIRE1 element, and an interaction was found with light chain 6 (LC6), a member of the LC8 protein family. LC8 and LC6 proteins are components of the dynein microtubule motor, with LC8 being a versatile adapter that can bind many unrelated cellular proteins and viruses. Plant LC8 and LC6 genes are abundant and divergent, yet flowering plants do not encode other components of the dynein motor. Although, to our knowledge, no cellular roles for plant LC8 family members have been proposed, we hypothesize that binding of LC8 proteins to Gag aids in the movement of retrotransposon virus-like particles within the plant cell or possibly induces important conformational changes in the Gag protein.
16184600	Computational methods, such as the ADM (average distance map) method, have been developed to predict folding of homologous proteins. In this work we used the ADM method to predict the folding pathway and kinetics among selected plant nonsymbiotic (nsHb), symbiotic (Lb), and truncated (tHb) hemoglobins (Hbs). Results predicted that (1) folding of plant Hbs occurs throughout the formation of compact folding modules mostly formed by helices A, B, and C, and E, F, G, and H (folding modules A/C and E/H, respectively), and (2) primitive (moss) nsHbs fold in the C-->N direction, evolved (monocot and dicot) nsHbs fold either in the C-->N or N-->C direction, and Lbs and plant tHbs fold in the C-->N direction. We also predicted relative folding rates of plant Hbs from qualitative analyses of the stability of subdomains and classified plant Hbs into fast and moderate folding. ADM analysis of nsHbs predicted that prehelix A plays a role during folding of the N-terminal domain of Ceratodon nsHb, and that CD-loop plays a role in folding of primitive (Physcomitrella and Ceratodon) but not evolved nsHbs. Modeling of the rice Hb1 A/C and E/H modules showed that module E/H overlaps to the Mycobacterium tuberculosis HbO two-on-two folding. This observation suggests that module E/H is an ancient tertiary structure in plant Hbs.
16186120	EL5 is a rice ubiquitin-protein isopeptide ligase (E3) containing a RING-H2 finger domain that interacts with Oryza sativa (Os) UBC5b, a rice ubiquitin carrier protein. We introduced point mutations into the EL5 RING-H2 finger so that residues that functionally interact with OsUBC5b could be identified when assayed for ubiquitination activity in vitro. The residue positions were selected based on the results of an EL5 RING-H2 finger/OsUBC5b NMR titration experiment. These RING-H2 finger residues form or are adjacent to a shallow groove that is recognized by OsUBC5b. The E3 activity of EL5 is shown to be dependent on a Trp located at the center of the groove. We classified rice RING fingers according to the type of metal-chelating motif, i.e. RING-H2 or RING-HC, and according to the presence or absence of a conserved EL5-like Trp. We discuss the probable relationship between E3 activity and the conserved Trp.
16187074	The storage protein polymers in the endosperm, stabilised by disulphide bonds, determine a number of processing qualities of wheat dough. The enzyme protein disulphide isomerase (PDI), involved in the formation of disulphide bonds, is strongly suggested to play a role in the formation of wheat storage protein bodies. Reports of the rice mutant esp2 exhibiting aberrant storage protein deposition in conjunction with a lack of PDI expression provided strong indications of a direct role for PDI in storage protein deposition. The potential significance of wheat PDI prompted the present studies into exploring any orthology between wheat PDI genes and rice PDI and esp2 loci. By designing allele-specific (AS)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) markers, two of the three wheat PDI genes could be genetically mapped to group 4 chromosomes and showed close association with GERMIN genes. Physical mapping led to localisation of wheat PDI genes to chromosomal "bins" on the proximal section of chromosome 4AL and distal sections of 4BS and 4DS. Identification of the putative PDI gene of rice and its comparison to the esp2 locus revealed that they were present at similar positions on the short arm of chromosome 11. Analysis of a large section of the PDI-containing section of rice chromosome 11S revealed a number of putative orthologues from The Institute for Genomic Research Triticum aestivum Gene Index database, of which five had been mapped, each localising to group 4 chromosomes, many in good agreement with our mapping results. The results strongly suggest a close linkage between the esp2 marker and the PDI gene of rice and an orthology between the PDI loci of rice and wheat and predict quantitative-trait loci involved in storage protein deposition at the PDI loci.
16187120	A novel synthetic cry2A* gene was introduced into the elite indica rice restorer line Minghui 63 by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. A total of 102 independent transformants were obtained. Among them, 71 transformants were positive cry2A* plants according to PCR analysis. Four highly insect-resistant lines with single-copy insertion (designated as 2A-1, 2A-2, 2A-3, and 2A-4) were selected based on field assessment and Southern blot analysis in the T(1) generation. All four transgenic lines showed Mendelian segregation by seed germination on 1/2 MS medium containing Basta. Homozygous transgenic plants were selected according to germination ratio (100%) in the T2 generation. Cry2A* protein concentrations were determined in homozygous transgenic lines, their derived hybrids, and their backcross offspring. The Cry2A* protein concentrations of four homozygous transgenic lines ranged from 9.65 to 12.11 microg/g of leaf fresh weight. There was little variation in the hybrids and backcross offspring. Insect bioassays were conducted in both the laboratory and field. All four transgenic lines were significantly resistant to lepidopteran rice pests. These cry2A* transgenic lines can be used to produce insect-resistant hybrids and serve as a resistant source for the development of two-toxin Bt rice.
16187259	Dissipation of the fungicide pencycuron was examined under controlled laboratory conditions in clay loam soils from rice cultivated fields of alluvial soil (Typic udifluvent) and coastal saline soil (Typic endoaquept) at field rate, twice the field rate and 10 times the field rate with and without decomposed cow manure maintained at 60% of maximum water-holding capacity (WHC) and waterlogged soil condition. The half-life values depended on the initial concentrations of pencycuron. Pencycuron, in general, degraded fastest in coastal saline soil and in soil amended with decomposed cow manure at 60% of maximum WHC of soil.
16187411	This work analyses the potential role of nitrogen pollution technology of crop systems of Pujiang, County in Eastern China's Zhejiang Province, rice and vegetables are important cropping systems. We used a case study approach involving comparison of farmer practices and improved technologies. This approach allows assessing the impact of technology on pollution, is forward looking, and can yield information on the potential of on-the-shelf technology and provide opportunities for technology development. The approach particularly suits newly developed rice technologies with large potential of reducing nitrogen pollution and for future rice and vegetables technologies. The results showed that substantial reductions in nitrogen pollution are feasible for both types of crops.
16187531	Nitrogen fixing endophytic Serratia sp. was isolated from rice and characterized. Re-colonization ability of Serratia sp. in the rice seedlings as endophyte was studied under laboratory condition. For detecting the re-colonization potential in the rice seedlings, Serratia sp. was marked with reporter genes (egfp and Kmr) using transposon mutagenesis. The conjugants were screened for re-colonization ability and presence of nif genes using PCR. Further, the influence of flavonoids and growth hormones on the endophytic colonization and in planta nitrogen fixation of Serratia was also investigated. The flavonoids, quercetin (3 microg/ml) and diadzein (2 microg/ml) significantly increased the re-colonization ability of the endophytic Serratia, whereas the growth hormones like IAA and NAA (5 microg/ml) reduced the endophytic colonization ability of Serratia sp. Similarly, the in planta nitrogen fixation by Serratia sp. in rice was significantly increased due to flavonoids. The inoculation of endophytic diazotrophs increased the plant biomass and biochemical constituents.
16187674	Eleven diabetic patients: 5, type 1 and 6, type 2 received a low-fiber diet (I) during 1 week and during the next 7 days the same diet, enriched with 40 g of fiber (30.6% insoluble and 11.7% soluble components) from rice bran (II) per day. Results showed that mean fasting and postprandial serum glucose levels were reduced, but values of high fiber diet were significantly lower (p < 0.001) than that of the lower fiber diet. For all patients, the high-fiber diet increased fecal weight. This increase was due to the fiber excreted, rather than water retained. There was no relationship between the increase in fiber intake and its fecal excretion. Sucrose and raffinose were found in the bran, but not in the feces. Lactose was present in the stools of the patients receiving enriched diet.
16188032	Rice is an important staple food and, with the smallest cereal genome, serves as a reference species for studies on the evolution of cereals and other grasses. Therefore, decoding its entire genome will be a prerequisite for applied and basic research on this species and all other cereals. We have determined and analyzed the complete sequences of two of its chromosomes, 11 and 12, which total 55.9 Mb (14.3% of the entire genome length), based on a set of overlapping clones. A total of 5,993 non-transposable element related genes are present on these chromosomes. Among them are 289 disease resistance-like and 28 defense-response genes, a higher proportion of these categories than on any other rice chromosome. A three-Mb segment on both chromosomes resulted from a duplication 7.7 million years ago (mya), the most recent large-scale duplication in the rice genome. Paralogous gene copies within this segmental duplication can be aligned with genomic assemblies from sorghum and maize. Although these gene copies are preserved on both chromosomes, their expression patterns have diverged. When the gene order of rice chromosomes 11 and 12 was compared to wheat gene loci, significant synteny between these orthologous regions was detected, illustrating the presence of conserved genes alternating with recently evolved genes. Because the resistance and defense response genes, enriched on these chromosomes relative to the whole genome, also occur in clusters, they provide a preferred target for breeding durable disease resistance in rice and the isolation of their allelic variants. The recent duplication of a large chromosomal segment coupled with the high density of disease resistance gene clusters makes this the most recently evolved part of the rice genome. Based on syntenic alignments of these chromosomes, rice chromosome 11 and 12 do not appear to have resulted from a single whole-genome duplication event as previously suggested.
16189540	Seed dormancy is a key adaptive trait under polygenic control in many plants. We introduced the chromosomal regions containing the dormancy QTLs qSD1, qSD7-1, and qSD12 from an accession of weedy rice into a nondormant genetic background to examine component genetic effects and their interactions with time of afterripening (DAR). A BC4F2 plant, which was heterozygous for the three loci, was selected to develop the BC4F3 population. Single point analysis detected only qSD7-1 and qSD12 (R2 = 38-72%) at 10, 30, and 50 DAR in the population. However, multiple linear regression analysis detected genetic effects of the three QTLs and their trigenic epistasis, an environmental effect of DAR (E), and interactions of E with qSD12 and with the qSD1 x qSD7-1 and qSD7-1 x qSD12 epistases. The linear model demonstrates that QTL main effects varied with DAR, and that some epistasis or epistasis-by-DAR interactions partially counteract the main effects. The three QTLs were isolated as single Mendelian factors from the BC4F3 population and estimated for component genic effects based on the BC4F4 populations. Isolation improved estimation of the qSD1 effect and confirmed the major effect of qSD12. The qSD1 and qSD12 loci displayed a gene-additive effect. The qSD7-1, which was further narrowed to a chromosomal region encompassing the red pericarp color gene Rc, displayed gene additive and dominant effects.
16189659	Tolerance to low nitrogen conditions is a highly desired characteristic for sustainable crop production. In this study, we analyzed the genetic components associated with low N tolerance in rice at seedling stage, including main effects, epistatic effects of the quantitative trait locus (QTLs), and QTL by environment interactions (QEs), using a population of 239 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from a cross between Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63, the parents of an elite hybrid. A genetic linkage map with 253 DNA maker loci was constructed. Seedlings of RILs were cultivated in low N and normal N solutions. Root, shoot and plant weight in the two N treatments were measured and the relative weight of the two treatments for each trait was considered as measurements for low N tolerance. Four to eight QTLs with main effects were detected for each of the nine traits. Very few QTLs were detected in both low and normal N conditions, and most QTLs for the relative measurements were different from those for traits under the two N treatments, indicating very little commonality in the genetic basis of the traits and their relative performance under low and normal N conditions. A total of 103 digenic interactions were detected for the nine traits. While the epistatic effects collectively accounted for large proportions of the variation for several traits, the effects of QEs appeared to be trivial. It was concluded that low N tolerance of rice seedling had complex genetic basis that requires extensive studies for full characterization.
16189798	Four common acidulants in Indian dietary, i. e., citric acid, tamarind (Tamarindus indica), amchur (Mangifera indica), and kokum (Garcinia indica) were examined for a possible influence on the bioaccessibility of zinc from selected food grains. Among the four acidulants examined, amchur and citric acid generally enhanced the bioaccessibility of zinc and iron from all the food grains studied. The increase in zinc bioaccessibility produced by citric acid was around 40% in rice and chickpea, while amchur produced around 60% increase from decorticated green gram. This positive influence of acidulants on zinc bioaccessibility from food grains was seen both in the raw and cooked form. Tamarind and kokum, the other two acidulants tested, generally did not have a favourable influence on zinc and iron bioaccessibility. This lack of positive influence of these two acidulants on mineral availability could be attributable to the presence of significant amounts of tannin in them. Citric acid and amchur also generally enhanced the bioaccessibility of iron from these food grains.
16189844	Greenhouse and field studies were conducted to investigate response of two rice varieties, Priscilla and Cocodrie, to sub-lethal rates of glyphosate in terms of injury, shikimate accumulation and yield. In the greenhouse, more shikimate accumulated in Cocodrie than Priscilla at comparable glyphosate rates applied to plants at the three-leaf stage. In field studies, glyphosate was applied to both varieties when they were 74-cm tall and in the internode separation growth stage. Visual injury, plant height, and leaf-tissue samples for shikimate analysis were collected at 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28 days after treatment (DAT). Rice yield was also determined. Noticeable visual injury and height reduction to both varieties was observed as early as 7 and 3 DAT in Cocodrie and Priscilla, respectively. Shikimate levels in leaves began to increase in both varieties by 3 DAT in a dose-dependent manner and reached a peak between 7 and 14 DAT. Elevated shikimate levels were still detectable by 28 DAT. Similar levels of shikimate accumulated in both varieties at comparable glyphosate rates. However, glyphosate treatment at comparable rates reduced rice yields more in Cocodrie than in Priscilla. The highest rate of glyphosate reduced yield in Cocodrie by 92% whereas there was only a 60% yield reduction in Priscilla. Shikimate levels in glyphosate-treated rice were strongly correlated to yield reductions across both varieties and appeared to be a better predictor of yield reduction than was visual injury. Visual injury coupled with measured shikimate levels can be used collaboratively to identify glyphosate exposure and estimate subsequent rice yield reductions.
16190619	An antifungal compound was isolated from the culture broth of Streptomyces koyangensis strain VK-A60 using various chromatographic procedures. On the basis of the high-resolution EI-mass and 1H and 13C NMR data, the compound was identified as 4-phenyl-3-butenoic acid. Colletotrichum orbiculare, Magnaporthe grisea, and Pythium ultimum were most sensitive to 4-phenyl-3-butenoic acid. Strong inhibitory effects of 4-phenyl-3-butenoic acid also were found against Pectobacterium carotovorum subsp. carotovorum and Ralstonia solanacearum. 4-Phenyl-3-butenoic acid effectively suppressed the development of M. grisea on rice leaves at the concentration of more than 10 microg/mL, and the protective activity was in general similar to that of the commercial fungicide tricyclazole. Treatment with 100 microg/mL of 4-phenyl-3-butenoic acid also effectively inhibited the anthracnose development on cucumber plants, although its in vivo efficacy was somewhat less effective than that of the commercial fungicide chlorothalonil.
16192262	Supplementation of probiotics and supplementation of zinc during acute gastroenteritis in children have been shown to exert positive effects on diarrhea duration and severity. Our aim was to evaluate a new diet enriched with zinc and probiotic bacteria in the treatment of acute gastroenteritis in young children. In a double blind prospective study, 65 children aged 6-12 months were randomized to receive 6 x 10(9) colony forming units of Streptococcus thermophilus, Bifidobacterium lactis, Lactobacillus acidophilus (2 x 10(9) of each strain), 10 mg of zinc/day, and 0.3 grams of fructo-oligosaccharides in the supplemented group (n = 33) or placebo (n = 32), given in a soy protein based rice cereal. For each child, age, sex, weight, degree of dehydration, the presence of fever or vomiting, stool frequency and consistency were recorded daily until diarrhea resolution. Diarrhea resolution occurred after 1.43 +/- 0.71 days in the supplemented group vs. 1.96 +/- 1.24 in the control group (p = 0.017). In the subset of children who presented with vomiting, time to vomiting resolution was 0.27 +/- 0.59 vs. 0.81 +/- 0.91 days in the supplemented and control groups, respectively (p = 0.06). On day 3, there was only 1 child with watery stools in the supplemented group versus 10 children in the control group (p = 0.02). In our series, the feeding of a cereal containing Streptococcus thermophilus, Bifidobacterium lactis, Lactobacillus acidophilus and zinc, reduced the severity and duration of acute gastroenteritis in young children. However, whether this combination is better than either the addition of probiotics or zinc alone is yet to be determined.
16192280	Calmodulin (CaM) regulates diverse cellular functions by modulating the activities of a variety of enzymes and proteins. However, direct modulation of transcription factors by CaM has been poorly understood. In this study, we isolated a putative transcription factor by screening a rice cDNA expression library by using CaM:horse-radish peroxidase as a probe. This factor, which we have designated OsCBT (Oryza sativa CaM-binding transcription factor), has structural features similar to Arabidopsis AtSRs/AtCAMTAs and encodes a 103-kDa protein because it contains a CG-1 homology DNA-binding domain, three ankyrin repeats, a putative transcriptional activation domain, and five putative CaM-binding motifs. By using a gel overlay assay, gel mobility shift assays, and site-directed mutagenesis, we showed that OsCBT has two different types of functional CaM-binding domains, an IQ motif, and a Ca(2+)-dependent motif. To determine the DNA binding specificity of OsCBT, we employed a random binding site selection method. This analysis showed that OsCBT preferentially binds to the sequence 5'-TWCG(C/T)GTKKKKTKCG-3' (W and K represent A or C and T or G, respectively). OsCBT was able to bind this sequence and activate beta-glucuronidase reporter gene expression driven by a minimal promoter containing tandem repeats of these sequences in Arabidopsis leaf protoplasts. Green fluorescent protein fusions of two putative nuclear localization signals of OsCBT, a bipartite and a SV40 type, were predominantly localized in the nucleus. Most interestingly, the transcriptional activation mediated by OsCBT was inhibited by co-transfection with a CaM gene. Taken together, our results suggest that OsCBT is a transcription activator modulated by CaM.
16192749	Extensive previous studies on taxonomy, behavior/bionomics and control of Anopheles sinensis are reviewed and summarized. Recent molecular identification revealed that the population of An. sinensis complex includes An. sinensis, An. pullus, An. lesteri and at least two new species, and An. yatsushiroensis is synonmy of An. pullus. An. sinensis is the main vector species of vivax malaria in Korea. Larvae of An. sinensis breed in wide range of habitats which are naturally-made clean water, stagnant or flowing; main habitats include rice fields, ditches, streams, irrigation canals, marshes, ponds, ground pools, etc. Their host preferences are highly zoophilic. Human blood rate is very low (0.7-1.7%); nevertheless An. sinensis readily feeds on man when domestic animals are not found near by. They feed on hosts throughout the night from dusk to dawn with a peak period of 02:00-04:00 hours; they are slightly more exophagic (biting outdoors); much larger numbers come into the room when light is on. Main resting places are outdoors such as grasses, vegetable fields and rice fields. A mark-release-recapture study resulted that 37.1% was recaptured within 1 km, 29.4% at 1-3 km, 21.1% at 3-6 km, 10.3% at 6-9 km and 2.1% at 9-12 km distance. An. sinensis hibernate outdoors (mostly under part of dense grasses) during October-March. At the end of the hibernation period (March-April) they feed on cows at daytime. Until today any single measure to effectively control An. sinensis population has not been found. Indoor residual spray with a long-lasting insecticide can not reduce vector population densities, but shorten their life spans in some degree, so contributes to malaria control.
16193045	Gibberellins (GAs) are phytohormones that are essential for many developmental processes in plants. It has been postulated that plants have both membrane-bound and soluble GA receptors; however, no GA receptors have yet been identified. Here we report the isolation and characterization of a new GA-insensitive dwarf mutant of rice, gid1. The GID1 gene encodes an unknown protein with similarity to the hormone-sensitive lipases, and we observed preferential localization of a GID1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) signal in nuclei. Recombinant glutathione S-transferase (GST)-GID1 had a high affinity only for biologically active GAs, whereas mutated GST-GID1 corresponding to three gid1 alleles had no GA-binding affinity. The dissociation constant for GA4 was estimated to be around 10(-7) M, enough to account for the GA dependency of shoot elongation. Moreover, GID1 bound to SLR1, a rice DELLA protein, in a GA-dependent manner in yeast cells. GID1 overexpression resulted in a GA-hypersensitive phenotype. Together, our results indicate that GID1 is a soluble receptor mediating GA signalling in rice.
16193765	Fipronil is a phenylpyrazole insecticide increasingly used in applications such as rice culture, turf grass management, and residential pest control, with a high probability to contaminate aquatic environments. As a chiral pesticide, fipronil is released to the environment as a racemic mixture (equal amounts of optical isomers called enantiomers). Enantiomers can have different toxicological and biological activity; however, information on these differences, which is necessary for accurate risk assessment of chiral pesticides, is limited. Here we examine the acute toxicity of fipronil enantiomers, the racemate, and its photoproduct (desulfinyl fipronil) to Ceriodaphnia dubia. The 48-h median lethal concentration (LC50) values based on measured concentrations of each compound indicate the (+) enantiomer (LC50 = 10.3 +/- 1.1 microg/L, mean +/- standard error [SE]) was significantly more toxic to C. dubia than either the (-) enantiomer (LC50 = 31.9 +/- 2.2 microg/L) or racemate (LC50 = 17.7 +/- 1.3 microg/L). To account for any potential loss of fipronil through photolysis, tests were performed under light (fluorescent) and dark exposure conditions, and no significant differences in toxicity were observed. Desulfinyl fipronil, the major photodegradation product, which is not chiral, was detected at < 1% of each parent compound in test solutions after 48 h. Separate toxicity tests with desulfinyl fipronil found a > 20-fold higher LC50 (355 +/- 9.3 microg/L) compared to the fipronil racemate, suggesting lower adverse effects to C. dubia as a result of fipronil photolysis. The present results suggest selection of the (-) enantiomer in fipronil production for lower impacts to C. dubia; however, the consistency and relevancy of fipronil's enantiomer-specific activity at both acute and chronic levels of concern to additional target and nontarget species needs further consideration.
16193816	Grogan and Rice reported a number of imides of epoxyisoindole sort. Some pharmacological testing was performed which revealed their bioactivity. Except of their work, only scattered examples of derivatives with oxygen-bridged ring have appeared in the literature; this approach has also been used by us in the synthesis of some new potential drugs. This paper reports the synthesis of a number of epoxyisoindole derivatives, as well as in vitro tests of some selected representants.
16194619	A combination of electron microscopy and fluorescence microscopy has provided us with a global picture of the structure of the plant Golgi apparatus. However, the components that shape this structure remain elusive. In other organisms, members of the golgin family of coiled-coil proteins are essential for Golgi structure and organisation. Putative Arabidopsis and rice homologues of some golgin family members can be identified using database searches. Likewise, the heterogeneous group of multi-subunit-tethering complexes is responsible for crucial transport steps that affect Golgi structure and cisternal organisation in animals and yeasts. The Arabidopsis genome harbours possible homologues for the majority of the subunits of these complexes, suggesting that they also operate in the plant kingdom.
16195583	The objective of this study was to quantify the mastication effort for cooked rice. We analyzed mastication patterns while normal subjects ate a spoonful of cooked rice that had been prepared by cooking with different amounts of water (1.5, 2.0, 3.0, and 4.0 times the water to rice weight). The rice samples were served with the same weight, same volume and same solid content, and electromyography (EMG) of the masticatory muscles was measured. The texture of the four cooked rice samples was instrumentally analyzed by the two-bite method. The number of chews, masticatory time, and jaw-closing muscle activities per chew evaluated by EMG were higher in the rice sample cooked with least water, which exhibited a high firmness value in the instrumental test. Rice cooked with 4.0 times the amount of water exhibited the longest jaw-opening duration, which was related to the adhesiveness value in the instrumental test. The ratio of jaw-opening muscle activity to the preceding jaw-closing muscle activity was lower for the rice containing least water, this corresponding to the area ratio (balance degree) in the instrumental test. Softer rice containing more water reduced the total mastication effort until swallowing because it required a shorter mastication time. It was not difficult for the softer rice with high density to be ingested in greater weight, decreasing the mastication effort for a certain amount.
16195608	Nepsilon-(hexanoyl)lysine (HEL) is a potentially useful marker of oxidative stress in animals. We investigated whether HEL might be useful as a marker in rice seeds damaged by oxidative stress during storage, as well as in animals. The germination ability of rice decreased with lipid peroxidation during storage at 40 degrees C for three months. Moreover, we observed accumulation of HEL in the damaged rice. In addition, the activities of antioxidative enzymes, catalase and superoxide dismutase, significantly decreased in the rice seeds during storage at 40 degrees C. These results suggest that HEL might be a useful marker of oxidative stress in rice.
16195848	Anagrus nilaparvatae, an egg parasitoid of the rice brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens, was attracted to volatiles released from N. lugens-infested plants, whereas there was no attraction to volatiles from undamaged plants, artificially damaged plants, or volatiles from N. lugens nymphs, female adults, eggs, honeydew, and exuvia. There was no difference in attractiveness between plants infested by N. lugens nymphs or those infested by gravid females. Attraction was correlated with time after infestation and host density; attraction was only evident between 6 and 24 hr after infestation by 10 adult females per plant, but not before or after. Similarly, after 24 hr of infestation, wasps were attracted to plants with 10 to 20 female planthoppers, but not to plants with lower or higher numbers of female planthoppers. The attractive time periods and densities may be correlated with the survival chances of the wasps' offspring, which do not survive if the plants die before the wasps emerge. Wasps were also attracted to undamaged mature leaves of a rice plant when one of the other mature leaves had been infested by 10 N. lugens for 1 d, implying that the volatile cues involved in host location by the parasitoid are systemically released. Collection and analyses of volatiles revealed that 1 d of N. lugens infestation did not result in the emission of new compounds or an increase in the total amount of volatiles, but rather the proportions among the compounds in the blend were altered. The total amounts and proportions of the chemicals were also affected by infestation duration. These changes in volatile profiles might provide the wasps with specific information on host habitat quality and thus could explain the observed behavioral responses of the parasitoid.
16195886	The rapidly growing expressed sequence tag (EST) resources of species representing the Poacea family and availability of comprehensive sequence information for the rice (Oryza sativa) genome create an excellent opportunity for comparative genome analysis. Extensive synteny between rice chromosome 1 and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) chromosome 3 has proven extremely useful for saturation mapping of chromosomal regions containing target genes of large-genome barley with conserved orthologous genes from the syntenic regions of the rice genome. Rph5 is a gene conferring resistance to the barley leaf rust pathogen Puccinia hordei. It was mapped to chromosome 3HS, which is syntenic with rice chromosome 1S. The objective of this study was to increase marker density within the sub-centimorgan region around Rph5, using sequence-tagged site (STS) markers that were developed based on barley ESTs syntenic to the phage (P1)-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) clones comprising the distal region of rice chromosome 1S. Five rice PAC clones were used as queries in a blastn search to screen 375,187 barley ESTs. Ninety-four non-redundant EST sequences were identified from the EST database and used as templates to design 174 pairs of primer combinations. As a result, 9 barley EST-based STS markers were incorporated into the 'Bowman' x 'Magnif 102' high-resolution map of the Rph5 region. More importantly, six markers, including five EST-derived STS sequences, were found to co-segregate with Rph5. The results of this study demonstrate the usefulness of rice genomic resources for efficient deployment of barley ESTs for marker saturation of targeted barley genomic regions.
16198033	Various tissues of rice plants were sampled from a PAH contaminated site in Tianjin, China at different growth stages of the ripening period and analyzed for PAHs. PAHs were much higher in roots than in the exposed tissues. Grains and internodes accumulated much smaller amounts of PAHs than leaves, hulls or ear axes. No specific gradient trends along roots, stem, ear axes, and grains were observed, suggesting that systematic translocation among them is unlikely. Over the ripening period, PAH concentrations were increased in rice roots and decreased in most above-ground tissues. Significant correlations between PAH and lipid contents can only be observed during full mature stage. The spectra of individual PAH compounds in rice organs including roots were similar to those in air, rather than those in soil. There was also a significant correlation between bioconcentration factor (BCF, plant over air) and octanol/air partitioning coefficient (Koa).
16198129	We have used fluorescent, confocal laser and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to examine cellular organisations, including callose (1,3-beta-glucan) behaviour, in meiotic and early post-meiotic rice anthers. These features are critical for pollen formation and provide information to better understand pollen sterility caused by abiotic stress in rice and other monocotyledonous species. Among organelles during meiosis, abundant plastids, mitochondria and nuclei of the anther cells show distinctive features. Chloroplasts in the endothecium store starch and indicate a potential for photosynthetic activity. During meiosis, the middle layer cells are markedly compressed and at the tetrad stage are either vacuolated or filled with degenerating electron-opaque organelles. Viable mitochondria, stained with Rhodamine 123, are seen in the endothecium and tapetum, but the mitochondria in the middle layer are not stained during meiosis. The radial walls of the tapetum are disorganised and degenerating, indicating the formation of a syncytium; pro-orbicules are located at the locular walls at the tetrad stage. Immunohistochemical studies show that the sporogenous cells are entirely enveloped by a thick callosic layer at early meiosis. Cell plate callose was assembled in a plane between the dyad cells. In the tetrads, however, callose formed only at the centre, showing that the tetrad microspores are not enveloped but separated by callose walls. Thick, undulating electron-opaque walls around the tetrads indicate the beginning of exinous microspore wall differentiation.
16198259	The production of extracellular amylase by the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus was studied in solid state fermentation (SSF). Solid substrates such as wheat bran, molasses bran, rice bran, maize meal, millet cereal, wheat flakes, barley bran, crushed maize, corncobs and crushed wheat were studied for enzyme production. Growth on wheat bran gave the highest amylase activity. The maximum enzyme activity obtained was 534 U/g of wheat bran under optimum conditions of an incubation period of 120 h, an incubation temperature of 50 degrees C, an initial moisture content of 90%, a pH of 6.0, an inoculum level of 10% (v/w), a salt solution concentration of 1.5:10 (v/w) and a ratio of substrate weight to flask volume of 1:100 with soluble starch (1% w/w) and peptone (1% w/w) as supplements.
16198261	2,4,6-Trichloroanisole (TCA), which has been identified as the main component responsible for the cork taint in wine, was detected in sake samples having a musty/muddy off-flavor by stir bar sorptive extraction (SBSE). We confirmed that TCA is one of the components causing this off-flavor in sake, as in other alcoholic beverages, from a sensory analysis showing the correlation between TCA concentration and the intensity of the musty/muddy off-flavor. We investigated the route of TCA production in the rice koji preparation process and in the moromi mash process for sake brewing. We found that TCA is produced mainly by the biomethylation of 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCP) by rice koji in brewing and that TCP originates from the wooden tools used in preparing rice koji.
16198586	Plant dehydration is commonly caused by some adverse environmental conditions such as salinity, drought and freezing. As the plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) is involved in responses to water stress, we studied its putative relationship with the degree of tolerance to these abiotic stresses. For this purpose we used cell lines that had been established from mature embryos of rice (Oryza sativa L, cvs. Bahia and Bomba), and selected by their high (L-T) or low (L-S) levels of tolerance to each type of stress. Tolerance of rice calli to either osmotic, saline, or freezing stress was generally improved by a previous treatment with ABA. This ABA effect was evident in those callus lines with low tolerance (L-S), as their ability to recover from stress increased up to three fold. Independent of the cultivar used, there were no significant differences in the endogenous ABA contents between untreated L-T and L-S lines. However, upon stress, the increase in endogenous ABA was higher in L-T than in L-S lines. These results, together with those obtained by using Fluridone, an inhibitor of ABA synthesis, show that differences in the level of cell tolerance to osmotic, saline and freezing stress are related to their different capacity of ABA synthesis under stress conditions.
16199618	Cell biological, structural, and genetic approaches have demonstrated the presence of arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) in the moss Physcomitrella patens and provided evidence for their function in cell expansion and specifically in the extension of apical tip-growing cells. Inhibitor studies indicated that apical cell expansion in P. patens is blocked by synthetic AGP binding beta-glucosyl Yariv reagent (betaGlcYR). The anti-(1-->5)-alpha-L-arabinan monoclonal antibody LM6 binds to some AGPs in P. patens, to all plasma membranes, and to the cell wall surface at the most apical region of growing protonemal filaments. Moreover, LM6 labeling of cell walls at the tips of apical cells of P. patens was abolished in the presence of betaGlcYR, suggesting that the localized movement of AGPs from the plasma membrane to the cell wall is a component of the mechanism of tip growth. Biochemical and bioinformatic analyses were used to identify seven P. patens ESTs encoding putative AGP core proteins from homology with Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica napus, and Oryza sativa sequences and from peptide fragments isolated from betaGlcYR-precipitated AGPs. Gene knockout by homologous recombination of one of these genes, P. patens AGP1, encoding a classical AGP core protein, resulted in reduced cell lengths in protonemal filaments, indicating a role for AGP1 in apical cell expansion in P. patens.
16200216
16200395	Auxin exerts pleiotropic effects on plant growth and development by regulating the expression of early auxin-responsive genes of auxin/indoleacetic acid (Aux/IAA), small auxin-up RNA, and GH3 classes. These genes have been studied extensively in dicots like soybean and Arabidopsis. We had earlier characterized a cDNA of the first monocot member of Aux/IAA family from rice. The achievement of the large scale rice genome sequencing combined with the availability of full-length cDNA sequences from Knowledge-based Oryza Molecular Biological Encyclopedia provided us the opportunity to draw up the first comprehensive list of Aux/IAA genes in a monocot. By screening the available databases, we have identified 31 Aux/IAA genes having high sequence identity within the conserved domains I, II, III, and IV. The genomic organization as well as chromosomal location of all the Oryza sativa indoleacetic acid (OsIAA) genes is reported. The rice Aux/IAA proteins can be classified in two groups (A and B) on the basis of their phylogenetic relationship with Arabidopsis Aux/IAA proteins. An evolutionary pattern of the rice Aux/IAA genes has been discussed by analyzing their structure (exon/intron organization) and duplications. Interestingly, the duplication of rice Aux/IAA genes was found to be associated with chromosomal block duplication events in rice. The in-silico analysis has been complemented with real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis to quantify transcript levels of all Aux/IAA family members. OsIAA genes showed differential and overlapping organ-specific expression patterns in light- and dark-grown seedlings/plants. Although auxin enhanced the transcript abundance of most of the OsIAA genes, the effect was more pronounced on OsIAA9, 14, 19, 20, 24, and 31. These results provide a foundation for future studies on elucidating the precise role of rice Aux/IAA genes in early steps of auxin signal transduction.
16200414	A large set of 254 introgression lines in an elite indica genetic background were evaluated for grain yield (GY) and related traits under the irrigated (control) and drought (stress) conditions in two consecutive years for genetic dissection of adaptive strategies of rice to water stress. A total of 36 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting heading date (HD), plant height (PH), GY and yield components were identified and most QTLs showed pronounced differential expression either qualitatively or quantitatively in response to drought. These QTLs could be grouped into three major types based on their behaviors under control and stress conditions. Type I included 12 QTLs that expressed under both the stress and non-stress conditions. Type II comprised 17 QTLs that expressed under irrigation but not under stress. Type III included seven QTLs that were apparently induced by stress. The observation that the Lemont (japonica) alleles at all HD QTLs except QHd5 resulted in early heading under stress appeared to be responsible for the putative adaptation of Lemont to drought by escaping, whereas the Teqing (indica) alleles at most PH/GY QTLs were consistently associated with increased yield potential and trait stability and thus contributed to DT. Our result that most DT QTLs were non-allelic with QTLs for drought escaping suggests that the two adaptive strategies in the parental lines are under possible negative regulation of two largely non-overlapping genetic systems.
16201239	Tiller angle is one of the most important morphological characters that has a significant effect on the formation of rice high-yield population. The tiller angles were measured in a japonica/indica RIL population with 71 lines and a genome-wide chromosome segment substitution line (CSSL) population with 65 lines at two experimental sites. A transgressive segregation was observed in both populations. QTL analysis of tiller angle was conducted based on the saturated RFLP marker linkage map and the CSSL graphical genetype. Five main-effect QTLs and three pairs of epstatic loci were detected in the RIL population. A main QTL, qTA-9, located on chromosome 9 at XNpb108 - C506, was identified at both experiment sites. The positive allele TA-9(I) on qTA-9 was contributed by indica rice IR24 with 28.6% average contribution to variance. Meanwhile, an analysis of CSSL graphical genetypes also showed that there was a positive allele on the IR24 chromosome substitution segment delimited by RFLP marker C609 and C506 with approximate 15 cM interval, which proved the existence of qTA-9. The TA-9(I) could increase tiller angle by about 15 degrees in japonica Asominori background under the two environments. The measurement of the F1 from the cross between background parent and CSSL AIS68 with TA-9(I) and the analysis of F2 population indicated that the TA-9(I) was an incomplete dominant gene. Genetype x environment interaction(G xE) was not widely present except a pair of epistatic loci with 5.32% contribution to variance of tiller angles and a relatively small additive effect. The combining action of the additive effect of the genes from both parents and the two-loci epistasis-effect may be responsible for the transgressive segregation of tiller angle in rice population. The value and approach of application of TA-9(I) in hybrid rice breeding program were discussed.
16201240	The height of rice is one of the important agricultural traits, which affects on the rice architecture and production directly. The investigation of the length of the uppermost internode showed that the elongation mutation of the first internode is controlled by a recessive nuclear locus. The gene is localized between the STS marker of E30531 and the CAPS marker of C903 on the long arm of chromosome 5, apart from 6.7 cM and 2.8 cM respectively. The fine localization maps the gene between 0.3 cM flanks, which will help clone this gene and study the mechanism of the gene function.
16202089	Variation at 12 microsatellite loci was investigated to assess the impact of the implementation of insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs) on the genetic structure of Anopheles arabiensis in Simatou, a village surrounded by irrigated rice fields in the Sahelian area of Cameroon. The An. arabiensis population of Simatou was sampled twice before ITN implementation, and twice after. Effective population size estimates (N(e)) were similar across each time point, except for the period closely following ITN introduction where a nonsignificant reduction was recorded. Hence, we believe that ITN implementation resulted in a temporary bottleneck, rapidly followed by a demographic expansion. The genetic diversity of the population was not significantly affected since different genetic parameters (allele number, observed and expected heterozygosities) remained stable. Low estimates of genetic differentiation between the populations from Simatou and Lagdo, separated by 300 km, suggested extensive gene flow among populations of An. arabiensis in the Sahelian region of Cameroon. A decrease in the susceptibility to deltamethrin was observed following ITN introduction, but no kdr mutation was detected and a metabolic resistance mechanism is probably involved. The temporary effect of ITNs on the genetic structure of An. arabiensis population suggests that, to optimize the success of any control programme of this species based on ITNs, the control area should be very large and the programme should be implemented for a long period of time.
16202241	In this study, we have isolated a rice (Oryza sativa L.) glutamate decarboxylase (RicGAD) clone from a root cDNA library, using a partial Arabidopsis thaliana GAD gene as a probe. The rice root cDNA library was constructed with mRNA, which had been derived from the roots of rice seedlings subjected to phosphorus deprivation. Nucleotide sequence analysis indicated that the RicGAD clone was 1,712 bp long, and harbors a complete open reading frame of 505 amino acids. The 505 amino acid sequence deduced from this RicGAD clone exhibited 67.7 % and 61.9 % identity with OsGAD1 (AB056060) and OsGAD2 (AB056061) in the database, respectively. The 505 amino acid sequence also exhibited 62.9, 64.1, and 64.2 % identity to Arabidopsis GAD (U9937), Nicotiana tabacum GAD (AF020425), and Petunia hybrida GAD (L16797), respectively. The RicGAD was found to possess a highly conserved tryptophan residue, but lacks the lysine cluster at the C-proximal position, as well as other stretches of positively charged residues. The GAD sequence was expressed heterologously using the high copy number plasmid, pVUCH. Our activation analysis revealed that the maximal activation of the RicGAD occurred in the presence of both Ca(2+) and calmodulin. The GAD-encoded 56 approximately 58 kDa protein was identified via Western blot analysis, using an anti-GAD monoclonal antibody. The results of our RT-PCR analyses revealed that RicGAD is expressed predominantly in rice roots obtained from rice seedlings grown under phosphorus deprivation conditions, and in non-germinated brown rice, which is known to have a limited phosphorus bioavailability. These results indicate that RicGAD is a Ca(2+)/ calmodulin-dependent enzyme, and that RicGAD is expressed primarily under phosphate deprivation conditions.
16202242	As a crucial transcription factor family, heat-shock factors were mainly analyzed and characterized in tomato and Arabidopsis. In this study, we isolated two putative heatshock factors OsHSF6 and OsHSF12 that interact specifically with heat-shock element (HSE) from Oryza sativa L by yeast one-hybrid method. The full-length cDNA of OsHSF6 and OsHSF12 have 1074bp and 920bp open reading frame (ORF), respectively. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequences revealed that OsHSF6 was a class A heat shock factor (HSF) with all the conserved sequence elements characteristic of heat stress transcription factor, while OsHSF12 was a class B HSF with C-terminal domain (CTD) lacking of AHA motif. Bioinformatic analysis showed that the sequences and structures of two HSFs' DNA binding domain (DBD) had a high similarity with LpHSF24. The results of RT-PCR indicated OsHSF6 gene was expressed immediately after rice plants exposure to heat stress, and the transcription of OsHSF6 gene accumulated primarily in immature seeds, roots and leaves. However, we did not find the transcription of OsHSF12 gene in different organs and growth periods. Our results implied that OsHSF6 might be function as a HSF regulating early expression of stress genes in response to heat shock, and OsHSF12 might be act as a synergistic factor to regulate the expression of down-stream genes.
16202596	A variety of biological and social factors govern schistosomiasis japonica in China. Social factors include those at a national and regional level, such as policies and patterns of development, which impact on local economic activities, and affect community, household and personal risk factors of infection. Drawing on research conducted in China, we illustrate how social structural and related factors influence individual risk and prevalence of infection. At a macro-level, political changes have occurred resulting in the shift from collective to family-based production, leading to clustering of infection in families. Industrialization and urbanization, and associated increased population mobility, have also influenced patterns of transmission and infection. Types of activities and local production patterns determine the exposure of individuals to schistosome-infested water sources. Fishermen have the most frequent water contact, aquatic workers the second and farmers the third; the relative risk of Schistosoma japonicum infection follows the same order. Among farmers, human infection is significantly related to agricultural production in rice fields infested with the intermediate host snail, and to rates of the infection in livestock. Risk of S. japonicum infection is also influenced by the domestic environment, including both the location of the house in relation to snail-colonized water sources, access to safe water, and improved sanitation. Household wealth and income determine family ability to provide and maintain safe water and sanitation, while determining or interacting with other variables. At an individual level, sex, age, educational level and ethnicity are all associated with different patterns of water use and water contact behaviour thereby affecting infection rates. Schistosomiasis impairs the growth and nutrition of children and the physical work capacity of adults, and so affects economic development. Given this, we note the importance of further research and social and contextual aspects of schistosomiasis infection in order to develop and sustain sound control strategies.
16203133	The feasibility of replacing peat or perlite with rice hulls and ground kenaf core to grow a Mediterranean species (Pinus halepensis M.), was investigated. Treatments involved the following growing media: 70 peat:30 perlite as a control, 70 peat:30 rice hulls, 50 peat:50 rice hulls, kenaf (100%) and 60 kenaf:20 peat:20 rice hulls. The seedlings' quality and the physical and chemical properties of the substrates were evaluated. After this, the seedlings were planted in the field and their field performance was recorded. The results showed that the growth medium 70 peat:30 rice hulls can successfully be used for the production of P. halepensis, since the seedlings' nursery and field performance were similar to, or even better than those obtained with the control medium. The seedlings produced in the growth media containing kenaf did not attain a suitable planting size and showed poorer field performance than control seedlings.
16205509	To evaluate the short-term effect of frequency of complementary feeding on total ad libitum consumption in breast fed infants. Twenty infants between 6 to 10 months of age were studied in a tertiary hospital in New Delhi for 48 hours. A traditional gruel made of rice and pulses (mean (SD) caloric density 54.22 (7.08) kcal/100 g) was offered in a randomized manner three (n = 10) or four (n = 10) times per day to the subjects over the first 24 hours with the subjects crossing over in the next 24 hours. They were allowed ad libitum breast feeding with no other food or fluid during the study period. Total caloric intake from breast milk and semisolids was computed for each day. There was no difference in the total caloric consumption with a semisolid feeding frequency of three or four times per day. The frequency of breast feeding and the breast feeding duration were also comparable (P > 0.05). However, breast milk intake was lower with a semisolid feeding frequency of 4 times/day (mean difference -61.2 g/d [95% confidence interval (CI) -122.2-0.32]; P = 0.051). The time required for feeding was higher (mean difference 14.75 min; P < 0.001), whereas the per meal intake of semisolids was lower with four semisolid feeds per day (mean difference -5.5 kcal/meal; [95% CI -10.19 to -0.81]; P = 0.024). In the short term, a change in semisolid feeding frequency from three to four times per day does not result in enhanced energy consumption because of lower breast milk intake.
16205693	In a case-control study in a veterans hospital in Taiwan, we compared 237 histology-confirmed prostate carcinoma cases with 481 controls, frequency matched by age, for their consumption of vegetarian food, namely soybean products, rice, wheat protein and other vegetables. The multivariable logistic regression analysis showed a significant association with such food (odds ratio (OR)=0.67, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.47, 0.94). This beneficial effect presented for men with body mass index (BMI) < or =25 kg m(-2) (OR=0.50, 95% CI=0.32, 0.76) but not for men with greater BMI. The OR of prostate carcinoma for men with BMI < or =25 kg m(-2) was 1.74 (95% CI=1.21, 2.51), compared with men with higher BMI (>25 kg m(-2)). Other significant risk factors associated with the disease included higher income (OR=2.40, 95% CI=1.07, 5.42), physical activity (OR=1.75, 95% CI=1.08, 2.83), being married (OR=2.49, 95% CI=1.40, 4.43) and coffee consumption (OR=1.88, 95% CI=1.07, 3.30). Stratified analysis also showed that the consumption of fish/shellfish had an adverse association for men with higher BMI. This study suggests that the intake of the low fat local vegetarian food has a protective effect against prostate carcinoma for thin men in this study population.
16205911	A bacterium (strain HC1) capable of assimilating rice bran hemicellulose was isolated from a soil and identified as belonging to the genus Paenibacillus through taxonomical and 16S rDNA sequence analysis. Strain HC1 cells grown on rice bran hemicellulose as a sole carbon source inducibly produced extracellular xylanase and intracellular glycosidases such as beta-D-glucosidase and beta-D-arabinosidase. One of them, beta-D-glucosidase, was further analyzed. A genomic DNA library of the bacterium was constructed in Escherichia coli and gene coding for beta-D-glucosidase was cloned by screening for beta-D-glucoside-degrading phenotype in E. coli cells. Nucleotide sequence determination indicated that the gene for the enzyme contained an open reading frame consisting of 1,347 bp coding for a polypeptide with a molecular mass of 51.4 kDa. The polypeptide exhibits significant homology with other bacterial beta-D-glucosidases and belongs to glycoside hydrolase family 1. Beta-D-Glucosidase purified from E. coli cells was a monomeric enzyme with a molecular mass of 50 kDa most active at around pH 7.0 and 37 degrees C. Strain HC1 glycosidases responsible for degradation of rice bran hemicellulose are expected to be useful for structurally determining and molecularly modifying rice bran hemicellulose and its derivatives.
16206021	Land use/cover in Northeast China went through extensive changes during the 1990s. This report explores the interaction between these changes and the environment, and the implication of these changes for rational allocation of water resources. Two maps of land use/cover produced from 1990 and 2000 Landsat TM satellite images were overlaid in Arc Info to reveal changes in land cover. Results indicate that farmland and grassland decreased by 386,195 and 140,075 ha, respectively, while water, built-up areas, and woodland increased by 238,596, 194,231, and 192,682 ha, respectively. These changes bore a mutual relationship with the environmental change. On the one hand, climate warming made some of these changes (e.g., conversion of woodland and grassland to farmland) possible. On the other hand, the changed surface cover modified the local climate. These changes, in turn, caused severe environmental degradation and increased flooding. The change between dry field and rice paddy, in particular, raised severe implications for the proper allocation of limited water resources in the Northeast. Efforts are needed to coordinate their rational allocation to reap maximum and sustainable return over the entire area, not just in some localities. Results obtained in this study should be of interest to the international audience of Environmental Management in that they highlight the interactive nature of human activities and the environment and the off-site impact of these activities on the environment.
16206236	The SFI1/GNA fusion protein, comprising of snowdrop lectin (Galanthus nivalis agglutinin, GNA) fused to an insecticidal spider venom neurotoxin (Segestria florentina toxin 1, SFI1) was tested for toxicity against the rice brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) and the peach-potato aphid Myzus persicae (Sulzer) by incorporation into artificial diets. Significant effects on the mortality of N. lugens were observed, with 100% of the insects fed on the SFI1/GNA fusion protein diet dead by day 7. The survival of the aphid M. persicae was also reduced when fed on the SFI1/GNA fusion protein. After 14 days, only 49% of the aphids that were fed on the fusion protein were still alive compared with approximately 90% of the aphids fed on the control diet or on diet containing GNA only. The SFI1/GNA fusion protein also slowed the development of M. persicae, and the reproductive capacity of the aphids fed on the SFI1/GNA fusion protein was severely reduced. The ability of GNA to act as a carrier protein, and deliver the SFI1 neurotoxin to the haemolymph of N. lugens, following oral ingestion, was investigated. The successful delivery of intact SFI1/GNA fusion protein to the haemolymph of these insects was shown by western blotting. Haemolymph taken from the insects that were fed on the fusion protein contained two GNA-immunoreactive proteins of molecular weights corresponding to GNA and to the SFI1/GNA fusion protein.
16207243	Disease resistance strategies reduce chemical input into the environment and are therefore powerful approaches to sustainable agriculture. Induced resistance (IR) has emerged as a potential alternative, or a complementary strategy, for crop protection. IR signifies the control of pathogens and pests by prior activation of plant defence pathways. A molecular understanding of IR in cereals, including the most important global crops wheat and rice, has been largely missing. Evidence indicating that central elements of IR pathways are conserved among Di- and Monocotyledoneae has only recently been presented, although their regulation and interaction with other plant pathways may be quite divergent. We present here a synopsis of current molecular knowledge of cereal IR mechanisms.
16207493	The fungus Magnaporthe grisea, commonly referred to as the rice blast fungus, is responsible for destroying from 10% to 30% of the world's rice crop each year. The fungus attaches to the rice leaf and forms a dome-shaped structure, the appressorium, in which enormous pressures are generated that are used to blast a penetration peg through the rice cell walls and infect the plant. We develop a model of the appressorial design in terms of a bioelastic shell that can explain the shape of the appressorium, and its ability to maintain that shape under the enormous increases in turgor pressure that can occur during the penetration phase.
16208371	A number of plant pathogenic fungi belonging to the genus Rhizopus are infamous for causing rice seedling blight. This plant disease is typically initiated by an abnormal swelling of the seedling roots without any sign of infection by the pathogen. This characteristic symptom is in fact caused by the macrocyclic polyketide metabolite rhizoxin that has been isolated from cultures of Rhizopus sp.. The phytotoxin exerts its destructive effect by binding to rice beta-tubulin, which results in inhibition of mitosis and cell cycle arrest. Owing to its remarkably strong antimitotic activity in most eukaryotic cells, including various human cancer cell lines, rhizoxin has attracted considerable interest as a potential antitumour drug. Here we show that rhizoxin is not biosynthesized by the fungus itself, but by endosymbiotic, that is, intracellular living, bacteria of the genus Burkholderia. Our unexpected findings unveil a remarkably complex symbiotic-pathogenic relationship that extends the fungus-plant interaction to a third, bacterial, key-player, and opens new perspectives for pest control.
16208503	A marker-assisted back-crossing (MABC) breeding programme was conducted to improve the root morphological traits, and thereby drought tolerance, of the Indian upland rice variety, Kalinga III. This variety, the recurrent parent in the MABC, had not previously been used for quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping. The donor parent was Azucena, an upland japonica variety from Philippines. Five segments on different chromosomes were targeted for introgression; four segments carried QTLs for improved root morphological traits (root length and thickness) and the fifth carried a recessive QTL for aroma. Some selection was made at non-target regions for recurrent parent alleles. We describe the selection made in three backcross (BC) generations and two further crosses between BC3 lines to pyramid (stack) all five target segments. Pyramids with four root QTLs were obtained in eight generations, completed in 6 years using 3,000 marker assays in a total of 323 lines. Twenty-two near-isogenic lines (NILs) were evaluated for root traits in five field experiments in Bangalore, India. The target segment on chromosome 9 (RM242-RM201) significantly increased root length under both irrigated and drought stress treatments, confirming that this root length QTL from Azucena functions in a novel genetic background. No significant effects on root length were found at the other four targets. Azucena alleles at the locus RM248 (below the target root QTL on chromosome 7) delayed flowering. Selection for the recurrent parent allele at this locus produced early-flowering NILs that were suited for upland environments in eastern India.
16209090	Alternaria alternata were isolated and identified from root, foliage and soil of both wheat and rice crops and their aggressiveness was studied using aggressiveness analysis. Isolates of Alternaria alternata were genetically characterized using RAPD's. The investigations were based on surveys of wheat and rice crops in the rice-wheat cropping areas of Pakistan. The study showed that Alternaria alternata is root rot causing fungi and during root rot aggressiveness analysis the isolates showed higher aggressiveness on rice varieties than on wheat but in foliar aggressiveness the overall number of aggressive isolates was higher on wheat varieties than on rice. In genetic characterization Random Amplified Polymorphism DNA (RAPD) was used to study the polymorphism and genetic variation within the population of Alternaria alternata that established correlation between aggressiveness and genetical characters of fungi. Alternaria alternata tree is constructed based on the pattern of bands. This study highlighted the correlation between morphological, aggressiveness and genetic variations of Alternaria alternata.
16209348	Riboswitches are RNA structures able to bind small molecules and regulate gene expression at both, transcriptional and translational level. They are present in a wide variety of bacterial species. In Bacillus subtilis more than 2% of the genome is regulated by riboswitches. Metabolite binding is highly specific and can be provided in cooperative manner. Several riboswitches has been identified and characterized to be specific for flavin mononucleotide, thiamine, thiamine pyrophosphate, adenosylcobalamin, S-adenosylmethionine, lysine, glycine, adenine, guanine and glucosamine-6-phosphate. Some of them have been found also in fungi (Neurospora crassa) and plants (Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis thaliana). In human only one riboswitch with binding capacity for 2-aminopurine, has been found. Occurrence of riboswitches in all of the phylogenetic groups suggests that they are one of the oldest regulatory systems. It provokes also the question about their involvement in regulation of gene expression in human.
16209910	The Chaetomium globosum strain F0142, which was isolated from barnyard grass, showed potent disease control efficacy against rice blast (Magnaporthe grisea) and wheat leaf rust (Puccinia recondita). Two antifungal substances were purified from broth from this organism and identified as chaetoviridins A and B. Chaetoviridin A exhibited higher antifungal activity than chaetoviridin B against plant pathogenic fungi both in vitro and in vivo. Treatment with chaetoviridin A at 62.5 microg/mL suppressed the development of rice blast and wheat leaf rust by over 80%. The molecule also exhibited moderate control of tomato late blight, resulting in 50% control following the application of 125 microg/mL chaetoviridin A.
16210073
16211190	We prospectively evaluated the incidence of difficulty in defecation in infants with gastroesophageal reflux who were treated with smaller volume feeds thickened with rice cereal and also assessed the effect of changing the cereal to oatmeal. We evaluated 53 thriving infants with uncomplicated gastroesophageal reflux who were treated with smaller volume feeds thickened with rice cereal. Parents maintained records of bowel movements for 7 days. Rice was substituted by oatmeal cereal in those infants developing difficulty in defecation and another 7 days' record was kept. Of the 53 infants enrolled, 34 (64%) reported no difficulty in defecation, 8 (15%) reported mild difficulty, and 11 (21%) reported severe difficulty in defecation during rice-based feedings. In these symptomatic 19 infants, after rice was substituted by oatmeal cereal, 10 infants (52.6%) reported no symptoms, 6 (31.6%) had mild symptoms, and 3 (15.8%) continued to have severe symptoms. We conclude that difficulty in defecation is common during treatment of infants with gastroesophageal reflux with smaller volume feeds thickened with rice cereal. Substitution of rice with oatmeal cereal results in partial or complete resolution of symptoms in most of these infants.
16211393	In rice, at the stage from pistil and stamen primordia formation to microsporocyte meiosis, the young panicle organs (YPO) make a great contribution to grain productivity. This period corresponds to the onset of meiosis and marks the transition from vegetative to reproductive stages. By comparing gene expression profiling of YPO with that of rice aerial vegetative organs (AVO), it is possible to gain further molecular insight into this period that is developmentally and functionally important. In this report, a total of 92,582 high-quality ESTs from 5'-end sequencing, including 44,247 from YPO and 48,335 from AVO, were obtained and classified. There were 12,884 (29.12%) ESTs from YPO and 16,304 (33.73%) ESTs from AVO matched to known genes, which generated 1,667 and 2,172 known genes, respectively, after integration of these ESTs. From the functions of known homologous genes, we identified some tissue- and developmental-stage-specified genes in YPO. The expression of these genes clearly reflected the unique functional characteristics of YPO. Furthermore, we estimated that there are about 10,000 mRNAs specifically expressed in rice YPO.
16211699	The frequency of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) has not been fully investigated in the Asian population. The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of GERD, endoscopy-negative GERD (NERD), and erosive GERD in Japan, and the factors influencing disease prevalence. A total of 2760 subjects (mean age 50.4 years, range 24-84 years) were prospectively enrolled in this multicenter study. GERD symptoms were assessed with the Japanese version of the Carlsson-Dent self-administered questionnaire (QUEST) and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed on all study participants. A total of 495 (17.9%) individuals were diagnosed with GERD by the presence of erosive esophagitis at endoscopy and/or by the presence of GERD symptoms. Erosive esophagitis was diagnosed endoscopically in 195 (7.1%), and symptomatic GERD was diagnosed in 351 (12.7%) based on a QUEST score of over 6. Of these 351 subjects, 300 (10.9%) were considered to have NERD. Male gender, hiatal hernia, and mild gastric mucosal atrophy were significant positive predictive factors of erosive esophagitis by multiple regression analysis. Hiatal hernia ws the only significant predictor of GERD symptoms. Traditional Japanese foods, such as sweet cakes and rice cake, frequently exacerbated GERD symptoms. The prevalence of GERD in the Japanese was 17.9% and the prevalence rates of NERD and erosive esophagitis were 10.9% and 8.6%, respectively. The majority of symptomatic patients did not have endoscopically proven esophagitis. Hiatal hernia is the only important predictor of the presence of GERD symptoms.
16212170	The modelling package Annualized Agricultural Nonpoint Source Model (AnnAGNPS) was used to predict pollutant loads, and simulate catchment processes and management practices in Jiulong River watershed, a medium-sized mountainous watershed in southeast of China. Four typical sub-watersheds were primarily chosen to calibrate AnnAGNPS model by data collected from storm events during the period of April to September, 2003. The model was further validated in the two biggest branches of Jiulong River watershed, i.e. West river and North river by the data regarding climate, and land using condition in 2002 - 2003. The simulation results show that annual total nitrogen load was 24.76kg/(hm2 x a) and 10.28kg/(hm2 x a) in the West river and North river, respectively, and annual total phosphorus load was 0.67 kg/(hm2 x a) and 0.40 kg/(hm2 x a) in the West river and North river, respectively. With the support of AnnAGNPS model, several management alternatives were separately simulated in the typical sub-watersheds, West river and North river. In the specific cell with cell-ID of 92 in Tianbao and Xiandu sub-watershed, after reforesting in sloping field, runoff surface, sediment yield, total nitrogen load and total phosphorus load cut down with 21.6%, 25.9%, 96% and 79.2%, respectively. In West river, with the cultivation plant changing from banana into rice, the total nitrogen, dissolved nitrogen, total phosphorus and dissolved phosphorus cut down with 23.83%, 25.44%, 9.08% and 19.84%, respectively. In North river, when removing all the hoggerys, nitrogen and dissolved nitrogen cut down with 63.54% and 76.92% , respectively.
16212171	The land uses in watersheds have important influence on the sediments of lakes and wetlands. Field and laboratory experiments were conducted to research the phosphorus adsorption by the pond sediments in the pond system in a headstream watershed. Being scattered in different ambient land uses and receiving soil particles from various sources, the pond system provides an excellent research example for the phosphorus sorption characteristics. It was found that the pond sediments had strong phosphorus sorption capacities. The phosphorus adsorption maximum (Smax) ranged from 228 to 974 mg x kg(-1), equilibrium phosphorus concentration (EPC0) ranged from 0.004 to 0.032mg L(-1). The mean degree of phosphorus saturation (DPS) of the pond sediments was only 9.5%. The situation of the ponds can influence the physico-chemical properties of sediments and their sorption characteristics. For Smax, Hill pond >Nonirrigation pond> Rice pond> River pond> Village pond. On the contrary, for EPC0, Hill pond< Nonirrigation pond< Rice pond < River pond < Village pond. The phosphorus adsorption maximum (Smax) was significantly correlated ly correlated with the KCl-extractable phosphorus (KCl-P, r2 = 0.83, p < 0.001). Multiple regression analysis shows that Fe(ox) and KCl-P are the key factors, which can influence phosphorus sorption of the pond sediments.
16212193	The biosurfactant of rhamonolipid (Rh) obtained from Pseudomonas aeruginosa was used in co-composting of rice straw and wheat bran, the efficiency of the promoter was studied under temperature control during the first stage of composting. Composting was done in an aerobic static bed of composting during which moisture content of mixture materials was controlled between 60% 70%, and the control of aeration adopted the timer by turns of 0.18m3/h for 20 minutes and pause for 40 minutes. Changes were studied including pH, organic matter, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), the biomass of microorganism, hemicellulase activity, carboxymethyl cellulose enzyme (CMCase) activity, hemi-cellulose and cellulose contents. The experimental results show that the degradation rate of organic matter is 13.4% higher than that of the control, and the average of DOC is improved by 2.2g/kg. The degradation contents of hemi-cellulose and cellulose are increased by 5.7%, 10.7% compared with the control. This indicate that the addition of Rh can improve microenvironment, strengthen polymers hydration, accelerate the co-composting process and improve the quality of composting production.
16212194	A complex microbial system capable of degrading cellulose and lindane with high efficiency was isolated from four compost heaps. It was selected and domesticated through two methods and by combination of different microbial communities. The results show that the complex microbial system can decompose filter paper, absorbent cotton, rice straw powder and sawdust effectively, especially has high degrading activity for the materials with higher native cellulose such as filter paper and absorbent cotton. As for both of them, the CMC saccharification activity is more than 40U and the degradation efficiency is more than 95% on the 5th day of inoculation. The complex microbial system can also keep a higher degrading capability in a wider range of pH. Filter paper and lindane can be degraded effectively by the complex microbial system during pH 7.0 - 9.0, and the degradation rates are more than 90 % and 45% respectively. Under pH 6.0 - 9.0, there is a good consistency between the degradation of Lindane and the decomposition of filter paper.
16212409	Proteins regulated by gibberellin (GA) in rice were determined by proteome analysis. Proteins extracted from suspension culture cells of slr1, a constitutive GA response mutant of rice, were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and three proteins were greatly accumulated in the mutant. The most up-regulated protein was methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase (MMSDH), and the amount of protein was 7-fold that of wild type. In this study, the function of MMSDH in rice was analyzed. MMSDH gene expression in suspension culture cells, roots, and leaf sheaths ofslr1 was higher than that in its wild-type. MMSDH expression in wild-type roots was increased by exogenous GA(3). Analyzed by in situ hybridization, MMSDH mRNA was expressed in root primordia of slr1, where cells are undergoing growth. MMSDH gene expression in the root zone of tissue differentiation was higher than in the elongation zone or meristem. Transgenic rice expressing antisense MMSDH showed that its seminal roots were thinner than that of control, and that the leaf sheath elongation was slightly inhibited compared to control. Concentrations of TCA cycle metabolites were decreased in the antisense plants as compared with the control plants, suggesting that acetyl-CoA was reduced in the antisense plants. These results suggest that one of the regulations by GA signal transduction including SLR1 is the expression of MMSDH, and that MMSDH may play a role in root development and leaf sheath elongation in rice.
16212411	Phosphoproteins in rice were detected by in vitro protein phosphorylation followed by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Forty-four phosphoproteins were detected on a 2D-gel after in vitro protein phosphorylation of the crude extract from rice leaf sheath. Among the phosphoproteins detected, 42 were identified through analysis by Q-TOF MS/MS and/or MALDI-TOF MS. The largest percentage of the identified phosphoproteins are involved in signaling (30%), while 18% are involved in metabolism. When rice seedlings were treated with various hormones and stresses, it was observed that the phosphorylation of 13 proteins was enhanced differentially by different hormone and stress treatments. Furthermore, when the hormone/stress regulated phosphoproteins are compared in rice leaf sheath, leaf blade and root, only cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase was found to be phosphorylated in all the tissues. Results suggest that in the phosphorylation cascade of rice, glycolytic metabolism processes and Ca(2+)-signaling seem to be important targets in response to hormones and stresses. Furthermore, the direct visualization of phosphoproteins by (32)P-labeling and their mass spectrometric identification provides an accurate and reliable method of analyzing the rice phosphoproteome.
16212432	Rice vacuolar membrane proteins changed by gibberellin (GA) were analyzed using a proteome approach. Vacuolar membrane fractions were isolated using a discontinuous sucrose/sorbitol system and 10 proteins increased in vacuolar membrane of the root, treated with GA(3) as compared with control. Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase C-1 and vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) increased in root vacuolar membrane by GA(3) interacted in rice roots. It suggests that aldolase C-1 regulates the V-ATPase mediated control of cell elongation that determines root growth.
16213243	To determine differences of the oral swallowing functions between stroke and normal subjects and to identify those factors affecting dysphagia of stroke patients. Case-control study. University hospital. Ten stroke and 10 healthy subjects. Not applicable. Resting saliva flow rate, the total number of chews, and the duration of the oral phase until onset of pharyngeal swallow, and food viscosities both before and after the oral phase using diluted barium, pudding, thick rice gruel, and curd type yogurt. The viscosity of all test foods was significantly reduced after the oral phase in both groups (P<.01). Resting saliva flow rate and the viscosity of thick rice gruel after the oral phase in the stroke group were significantly lower than in the control group (P<.01). However, there were no differences in the viscosities of the other foods between both groups. And a longer oral phase and a greater number of chews prior to pharyngeal swallow were revealed in the stroke group than in the control group (P<.01). This study shows that the food requiring mastication demands a longer oral phase and a greater number of chews, and has more altered rheologic characteristics during the oral phase in stroke patients. These findings suggest that masticatory function is impaired in stroke patients, which may contribute to their swallowing dysfunction.
16213729	Feeding of chemically synthesized [27-13C]codisterol ([27-13C]2), [27-13C]24-epicodisterol ([27-13C]3), [23,24-2H2]codisterol ([23,24-2H2]2), and [26,27-2H6]24-methyldesmosterol ([26,27-2H6]8) to Oryza sativa cell cultures, followed by MS and NMR analysis of the biosynthesized dihydrobrassicasterol (9)/campesterol (10), revealed that both (24R)- and (24S)-epimers of 24-methyl-Delta25-cholesterol (2/3) were converted to 9 and 10 via the common intermediate 24-methyldesmosterol (8).
16215640	Many harpins have been found in plant pathogen bacteria that can elicit disease and insect resistance in plants, and promote plant growth. In this work, we overexpressed and purified Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae harpin, harpin(Xoo), in Escherichia coli BL21/pGEX-hpa1. Harpin(Xoo) was fused to the C-terminus of glutathione S-transferase (GST) and purified using the Bulk GST purification module and thrombin cleavage capture kit. Purified harpin(Xoo) protein was sensitive to protease K and stable to heat treatment, and could not induce a hypersensitive response after treatment with various plant metabolic inhibitors; these characteristics were similar to harpin(Ea) of Erwinia amylovora. The purified harpin(Xoo) showed a similar ability to induce tobacco mosaic virus resistance in tobacco as harpin(Ea). Its antibody worked well in detecting the purified harpin(Xoo), harpin(Xoo) in the total protein of E. coli BL21/pGEX-hpa1 and an hpa1 transgenic rice.
16215827	Plant cytochrome P450s interact with a flavoprotein, NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR), to transfer electrons from NADPH. The gene for rice P450 reductase (RCPR) was cloned and expressed in Saccaromyces cerevisiae, where the specific activity of the expressed RPCR was 0.91 U/mg protein. When isoflavone synthase gene (IFS) from red clover, used as a model system of plant cytochrome P450, was co-expressed with RCPR in yeast, the production of genistein from naringein increased about 4.3-fold, indicating that the RCPR efficiently interacts with cytochrome P450 to transfer electrons from NADPH.
16215849	In eukaryotic cells, the origin recognition complex (ORC) governs the initiation site of DNA replication and formation of the prereplication complex. The isolation, characterization and tissue-specific expression of a putative ORC subunit 2 (OsORC2) in Oryza sativa is described here. A novel cDNA fragment encoding rice ORC2 was isolated by screening the subtractive library, which had a higher expression level in inflorescence meristem than in shoot apical meristem. The full-length cDNA of rice ORC2 was obtained by the method of rapid amplification of cDNA ends, which contained an 1140 bp open reading frame encoding a 379 amino acid polypeptide. Sequence alignment shows that there is a high homology between the deduced amino sequence of OsORC2 and maize ORC2 (85%). The tissue-specific expression pattern of OsORC2 reveals that it is abundant in roots, seedling and inflorescence meristem, while its expression level is much lower in mature leaves and shoot.
16215852	Relative transcript levels of eight rice diterpene cyclases at the branch points of gibberellins and phytoalexins biosynthesis pathway were measured by reverse transcription quantitative PCR. Metabolic flux analysis by the distribution ratio of common substrate showed that UV-irradiation of etiolated rice seedlings decreased the flux for primary metabolism of gibberellins biosynthesis by half (from 62 to 27%) and 41% of geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate was used for induction of pimaradiene intermediate as the major phytoalexin. In comparison, light-illumination used almost all geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (96%) for gibberellin biosynthesis to stimulate the plant growth and strongly repressed the metabolic flux for phytoalexins biosynthesis.
16216260	The activity and composition of leafhopper saliva are important in interactions with the host rice plant, and it may play a physiological role in detoxifying toxic plant substances or ingesting sap. We have characterized diphenoloxidase in the salivary glands of Nephotettix cincticeps, its activity as a laccase, and its presence in the watery saliva with the objective of understanding its function in feeding on rice plants. Nonreducing SDS-PAGE of salivary gland homogenates with staining by the typical laccase substrate 2,2'-azino-bis (3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS), hydroquinone or syringaldazine revealed a band at a molecular mass of approximately 85 kDa at pH 5. A band also appeared at a molecular mass of approximately 200 kDa when the gels were treated with dopamine, L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) or catechol at pH 7. The ABTS-oxidizing activity of the homogenates was drastically inhibited by N-hydroxyglycine, a specific inhibitor of laccase. However, the dopamine-oxidizing activity was not inhibited by N-hydroxyglycine, while it was inhibited by phenylthiourea (PTU). Thus, the salivary glands of N. cincticeps contain two types of phenoloxidases: a laccase (85 kDa) and a phenoloxidase (200 kDa). Laccase activity was detected in a holidic sucrose diet that was fed on for 16 h by two females, but only a trace of catechol oxidase activity was observed, suggesting that the laccase-type phenoloxidase was the predominant phenoloxidase secreted in watery saliva. The laccase exhibited an optimum pH of 4.75-5 in McIlvaine buffer and had a PI of 4.8. Enzyme activity was histochemically localized in V cells of the posterior lobe of the salivary glands. It remained at the same level throughout the adult stage from 2 days after eclosion. A possible function of N. cincticeps salivary laccase may be rapid oxidization of potentially toxic monolignols to nontoxic polymers during feeding on the rice plant. This is the first report proving that laccase occurs in the salivary glands of Hemiptera species and is secreted in the watery saliva.
16216494	A series of experiments involving microwave irradiation were carried out to evaluate the effect of microwave irradiation on enzymatic hydrolysis of rice straw. Compared with microwave irradiation free hydrolysis, rice straw pretreated by combining microwave irradiation with alkali could increase the initial hydrolysis rate but the hydrolysis yield remained unchanged. When the enzyme solution was treated by microwave irradiation, the initial hydrolysis rate increased slightly, but the yield was decreased remarkably. Its optimal hydrolysis conditions were temperature (45 degrees C), pH (4.8) and enzyme loading (20 mg g(-1) substrate), which was determined by an orthogonal experiment. When intermittent microwave irradiation was used, initial hydrolysis rate was greatly accelerated but the yield was decreased slightly. Its optimal hydrolysis conditions were temperature (50 degrees C), pH (4.8) and enzyme loading (20 mg g(-1) substrate), which was determined by another orthogonal experiment.
16216495	A 2(2) factorial design was performed to find the best conditions of pH and temperature for xylanolytic activity of Bacillus circulans BL53 isolated from the Amazon environment. Solid-state cultivation was carried out on an inexpensive, abundant agro-industrial soybean residue. The central composite design (CCD) used for the analysis of treatment combinations showed that a second-order polynomial regression model was in good agreement with experimental results, with R(2) = 0.9369 (P < 0.05). The maximum activity was obtained at a high temperature (80 degrees C) and over a large pH range (4.0-7.0). Enzymatic activity was maintained in heated extracts up to 50 degrees C, suggesting that the xylanases of B. circulans BL53 are thermo-tolerant biocatalysts, being of interest for industrial processes. The crude enzyme extract hydrolyzed rice straw, sugar cane bagasse and soybean fiber and its activity was stimulated by Co(2+), Fe(3+), and beta-mercaptoethanol but inhibited by Mn(2+), Cu(2+), Ca(2+), Zn(2+), Ba(2+), Mg(2+) and by EDTA.
16217552	A putative high-affinity phosphate (Pi) transporter gene in rice (Oryza sativa), OsLPT1, was isolated by RT-PCR from the leaves of the plants. The 1635-bp nucleotide sequence of OsLPT1 spans an open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 535 amino acids with sequence similarity to phosphate transporters from other plant species. Southern blot analysis showed that the OsLPT1 gene might be present in three transcripts in the rice genome. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated the expression of OsLPT1 in both leaves and roots. The expression of OsLPT1 in the roots was enhanced by Pi deprivation. In situ hybridization revealed OsLPT1 expression in mesophyll cells, xylem parenchyma and phloem cells in the leaves, and in the epidermis, exodermis, and in the vasculature surrounding metaxylem vessels in the roots. The data suggests that the OsLPT1 protein may be involved in enhancing phosphate uptake under conditions of Pi starvation, and in the translocation of Pi among cells in shoots to increase the efficiency of internal Pi use.
16217554	The construction of BAC-contig physical maps is an important step towards a partial or ultimate genome sequence analysis. Here, we describe our initial efforts to apply an overgo approach to screen a BAC library of the Malaysian wild rice species, Oryza rufipogon. Overgo design is based on repetitive element masking and sequence uniqueness, and uses short probes (approximately 40 bp), making this method highly efficient and specific. Pairs of 24-bp oligos that contain an 8-bp overlap were developed from the publicly available genomic sequences of the cultivated rice, O. sativa, to generate 20 overgo probes for a 1-Mb region that encompasses a yield enhancement QTL yld1.1 in O. rufipogon. The advantages of a high similarity in melting temperature, hybridization kinetics and specific activities of overgos further enabled a pooling strategy for library screening by filter hybridization. Two pools of ten overgos each were hybridized to high-density filters representing the O. rufipogon genomic BAC library. These screening tests succeeded in providing 69 PCR-verified positive hits from a total of 23,040 BAC clones of the entire O. rufipogon library. A minimal tilling path of clones was generated to contribute to a fully covered BAC-contig map of the targeted 1-Mb region. The developed protocol for overgo design based on O. sativa sequences as a comparative genomic framework, and the pooled overgo hybridization screening technique are suitable means for high-resolution physical mapping and the identification of BAC candidates for sequencing.
16217597	Major advances have occurred in rice production due to adoption of green revolution technology. Between 1966 and 2000, the population of densely populated low income countries grew by 90% but rice production increased by 130% from 257 million tons in 1966 to 600 million tons in 2000. However, the population of rice consuming countries continues to grow and it is estimated that we will have to produce 40 more rice in 2030. This increased demand will have to be met from less land, with less water, less labor and fewer chemicals. To meet the challenge of producing more rice from suitable lands we need rice varieties with higher yield potential and greater yield stability. Various strategies for increasing the rice yield potential being employed include: (1) conventional hybridization and selection procedures, (2) ideotype breeding, (3) hybrid breeding, (4) wide hybridization and (5) genetic engineering. Various conventional and biotechnology approach are being employed to develop durable resistance to diseases and insect and for tolerance to abiotic stresses. The availability of the rice genome sequence will now permit identification of the function of each of 60,000 rice genes through functional genomics. Once the function of a gene is identified, it will be possible to develop new rice varieties by introduction of the gene through traditional breeding in combination with marker aided selection or direct engineering of genes into rice varieties.
16217598	Rice serves as a model crop for cereal genomics. The availability of complete genome sequences, together with various genomic resources available for both rice and Arabidopsis, have revolutionized our understanding of the genetic make-up of crop plants. Both macrocolinearity revealed by comparative mapping and microcolinearity revealed by sequence comparisons among the grasses indicate that sequencing and functional analysis of the rice genome will have a significant impact on other cereals in terms of both genomic studies and crop improvement. The availability of mutants, introgression libraries, and advanced transformation techniques make functional genomics in rice and other cereals more manageable than ever before. A wide array of genetic markers, including anchor markers for comparative mapping, SSRs and SNPs are widely used in genetic mapping, germplasm evaluation and marker assisted selection. An integrated database that combines genome information for rice and other cereals is key to the effective utilization of all genomics resources for cereal improvement. To maximize the potential of genomics for plant breeding, experiments must be further miniaturized and costs must be reduced. Many techniques, including targeted gene disruption or allele substitution, insertional mutagenesis, RNA interference and homologous recombination, need to be refined before they can be widely used in functional genomic analysis and plant breeding.
16217599
16217600	Tremendous efforts have been taken worldwide to develop genome-wide genetic stocks for rice functional genomic (FG) research since the rice genome was completely sequenced. To facilitate FG research of complex polygenic phenotypes in rice, we report the development of over 20,000 introgression lines (ILs) in three elite rice genetic backgrounds for a wide range of complex traits, including resistances/tolerances to many biotic and abiotic stresses, morpho-agronomic traits, physiological traits, etc., by selective introgression. ILs within each genetic background are phenotypically similar to their recurrent parent but each carries one or a few traits introgressed from a known donor. Together, these ILs contain a significant portion of loci affecting the selected complex phenotypes at which allelic diversity exists in the primary gene pool of rice. A forward genetics strategy was proposed and demonstrated with examples on how to use these ILs for large-scale FG research. Complementary to the genome-wide insertional mutants, these ILs opens a new way for highly efficient discovery, candidate gene identification and cloning of important QTLs for specific phenotypes based on convergent evidence from QTL position, expression profiling, functional and molecular diversity analyses of candidate genes, highlights the importance of genetic networks underlying complex phenotypes in rice that may ultimately lead to more complete understanding of the genetic and molecular bases of quantitative trait variation in rice.
16217601	The wild species of the genus Oryza offer enormous potential to make a significant impact on agricultural productivity of the cultivated rice species Oryza sativa and Oryza glaberrima. To unlock the genetic potential of wild rice we have initiated a project entitled the 'Oryza Map Alignment Project' (OMAP) with the ultimate goal of constructing and aligning BAC/STC based physical maps of 11 wild and one cultivated rice species to the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project's finished reference genome--O. sativa ssp. japonica c. v. Nipponbare. The 11 wild rice species comprise nine different genome types and include six diploid genomes (AA, BB, CC, EE, FF and GG) and four tetrapliod genomes (BBCC, CCDD, HHKK and HHJJ) with broad geographical distribution and ecological adaptation. In this paper we describe our strategy to construct robust physical maps of all 12 rice species with an emphasis on the AA diploid O. nivara--thought to be the progenitor of modern cultivated rice.
16217603	Plant architecture, a collection of the important agronomic traits that determine grain production in rice, is mainly affected by factors including tillering, plant height and panicle morphology. Recently, significant progress has been made in isolating and collecting of mutants that are defective in rice plant architecture. Although our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that control rice tillering, panicle development and plant height are still limited, new findings have begun to emerge. This review, therefore, summarizes the recent progress in exploring the mechanisms that control rice plant architecture.
16217604	IR64, the most widely grown indica rice in South and Southeast Asia, possesses many positive agronomic characteristics (e.g., wide adaptability, high yield potential, tolerance to multiple diseases and pests, and good eating quality,) that make it an ideal genotype for identifying mutational changes in traits of agronomic importance. We have produced a large collection of chemical and irradiation-induced IR64 mutants with different genetic lesions that are amenable to both forward and reverse genetics. About 60,000 IR64 mutants have been generated by mutagenesis using chemicals (diepoxybutane and ethylmethanesulfonate) and irradiation (fast neutron and gamma ray). More than 38,000 independent lines have been advanced to M4 generation enabling evaluation of quantitative traits by replicated trials. Morphological variations at vegetative and reproductive stages, including plant architecture, growth habit, pigmentation and various physiological characters, are commonly observed in the four mutagenized populations. Conditional mutants such as gain or loss of resistance to blast, bacterial blight, and tungro disease have been identified at frequencies ranging from 0.01% to 0.1%. Results from pilot experiments indicate that the mutant collections are suitable for reverse genetics through PCR-detection of deletions and TILLING. Furthermore, deletions can be detected using oligomer chips suggesting a general technique to pinpoint deletions when genome-wide oligomer chips are broadly available. M4 mutant seeds are available for users for screening of altered response to multiple stresses. So far, more than 15,000 mutant lines have been distributed. To facilitate broad usage of the mutants, a mutant database has been constructed in the International Rice Information System (IRIS; http: //www.iris.irri.org) to document the phenotypes and gene function discovered by users.
16217605	A collection of 1373 unique flanking sequence tags (FSTs), generated from Ac/Ds and Ac transposon lines for reverse genetics studies, were produced in japonica and indica rice, respectively. The Ds and Ac FSTs together with the original T-DNAs were assigned a position in the rice genome sequence represented as assembled pseudomolecules, and found to be distributed evenly over the entire rice genome with a distinct bias for predicted gene-rich regions. The bias of the Ds and Ac transposon inserts for genes was exemplified by the presence of 59% of the inserts in genes annotated on the rice chromosomes and 41% present in genes transcribed as disclosed by their homology to cDNA clones. In a screen for inserts in a set of 75 well annotated transcription factors, including homeobox-containing genes, we found six Ac/Ds inserts. This high frequency of Ds and Ac inserts in genes suggests that saturated knockout mutagenesis in rice using this strategy will be efficient and possible with a lower number of inserts than expected. These FSTs and the corresponding plant lines are publicly available through OrygenesDB database and from the EU consortium members.
16217606	T-DNA and transposable elements e.g., Ds and Tos17, are used to generate a large number of insertional mutant lines in rice. Some carry the GUS or GFP reporter for gene trap or enhancer trap. These reporter systems are valuable for identifying tissue- or organ-preferential genes. Activation tagging lines have also been generated for screening mutants and isolating mutagenized genes. To utilize these resources more efficiently, tagged lines have been produced for reverse genetic approaches. DNA pools of the T-DNA tagged lines and Tos17 lines have been prepared for PCR screening of insertional mutants in a given gene. Tag end sequences (TES) of the inserts have also been produced. TES databases are beneficial for analyzing the function of a large number of rice genes.
16217607	Rapid progress in studies on flower development has resulted in refining the classical 'ABC model' into a new 'ABCDE model' to explain properly the regulation of floral organ identity. Conservation of E-function for flower organ identity among the dicotyledonous (dicot) plants has been revealed. However, its conservation in monocotyledonous (monocot) plants remains largely unknown. Here, we show the conservation of E-function in rice (Oryza sativaL.) by characterizing tissue culture-induced mutants of two MADS-box genes, OsMADS1and OsMADS5, which form a subclade within the well-supported clade of SEP-genes (E-function) phylogeny. Severe loss-of-function mutations of OsMADS1cause complete homeotic conversion of organs (lodicules, stamens, and carpels) of three inner whorls into lemma- and palea-like structures. Such basic deformed structure is reiterated along with the pedicel at the center of the same floret, indicating the loss of determinacy of the flower meristem. These phenotypes resemble the phenotypes caused by mutations of the dicot E-class genes, such as the Arabidopsis SEP123(SEPALLATA1/2/3) and the petunia FBP2(Floral Binding Protein 2), suggesting that OsMADS1play a very similar role in rice to that of defined E-class genes in dicot plants. In case of the loss-of-function mutation of OsMADS5, no defect in either panicles or vegetative organs was observed. These results demonstrate that OsMADS1clearly possesses E-function, and so, E-function is fundamentally conserved between dicot plants and rice, a monocot model plant.
16217608	As the international efforts to sequence the rice genome are completed, an immediate challenge and opportunity is to comprehensively and accurately define all transcription units in the rice genome. Here we describe a strategy of using high-density oligonucleotide tiling-path microarrays to map transcription of the japonica rice genome. In a pilot experiment to test this approach, one array representing the reverse strand of the last 11.2 Mb sequence of chromosome 10 was analyzed in detail based on a mathematical model developed in this study. Analysis of the array data detected 77% of the reference gene models in a mixture of four RNA populations. Moreover, significant transcriptional activities were found in many of the previously annotated intergenic regions. These preliminary results demonstrate the utility of genome tiling microarrays in evaluating annotated rice gene models and in identifying novel transcription units that will facilitate rice genome annotation.
16217609	Previously, we identified 253 cDNAs that are regulated by pollination/fertilization in rice by using a 10K cDNA microarray. In addition, many of them also appeared to be involved in drought and wounding responses. To investigate this relationship, we obtained their expression profiles after dehydration and wounding treatments in this study. Venn diagram analysis indicated that 53.8% (136/253) and 21% (57/253) of the pollination/fertilization-related genes are indeed regulated by dehydration and wounding, respectively, and nearly half of the genes expressed preferentially in unpollinated pistils (UP) are responsive to dehydration. These results indicated that an extensive gene set is shared among these responses, suggesting that the genetic programs regulating them are likely related. Among them, the genetic network of water stress control may be a key player in pollination and fertilization. Additionally, 39.5% (100/253) cDNAs that are related to pollination/fertilization appear not to be regulated by the stress treatments (dehydration and wounding), suggesting that the existence of additional genetic networks are involved in pollination/fertilization. Furthermore, comparative analysis of the expression profiles of the 253 cDNAs under 18 different conditions (various tissues, treatments and developmental status) revealed that the genetic networks regulating photosynthesis, starch metabolisms, GA- and defense-responses are involved in pollination and fertilization. Taken together, these results provided some clues to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of pollination and fertilization in rice.
16217610	Rice provides a staple source of energy, protein and other nutrients to half of the world population. Over 90 of the rice seeds consists of starch and protein by dry weight. The quantity and property of starch and protein thus play a dominant role in the yield and quality of rice. The amylase content of starch is a determining factor in the eating and cooking quality while the amount and essential amino acids balance of storage proteins affect the nutritional quality of rice. In China, the super-hybrid rice currently under the last phase of development has a 35 yield advantage over the best inbred rice varieties. However, its grain quality needs further improvement. This study reported the expression patterns of 44 genes participating in starch, storage protein, and lysine synthesis in the developing rice grain. Field grown rice cultivar 9311, the paternal line of an elite super-hybrid rice LYP9 with its draft genomic sequence released, was used as plant material. Results revealed diverse yet coordinated expression profiles of the genes involved in the three pathways which lead to the final composition and property of starch, protein and lysine that determine the quality of rice, providing useful information for rice quality improvement.
16217611	The technique of proteome analysis using two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) has the power to monitor global changes that occur in the protein complement of tissues and subcellular compartments. In this study, the proteins of rice were cataloged, a rice proteome database was constructed, and a functional characterization of some of the identified proteins was undertaken. Proteins extracted from various tissues and subcellular compartments in rice were separated by 2D-PAGE and an image analyzer was used to construct a display of the proteins. The Rice Proteome Database contains 23 reference maps based on 2D-PAGE of proteins from various rice tissues and subcellular compartments. These reference maps comprise 13129 identified proteins, and the amino acid sequences of 5092 proteins are entered in the database. Major proteins involved in growth or stress responses were identified using the proteome approach. Some of these proteins, including a beta-tubulin, calreticulin, and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase activase in rice, have unexpected functions. The information obtained from the Rice Proteome Database will aid in cloning the genes for and predicting the function of unknown proteins.
16217612	It is not known how representative the Arabidopsis thaliana complement of transcription factors (TFs) is of other plants. The availability of rice (Oryza sativa) genome sequences makes possible a comparative analysis of TFs between monocots and eudicots, the two major monophyletic groups of angiosperms. Here, we identified 1611 TF genes that belong to 37 gene families in rice, comparable to the 1510 in Arabidopsis. Several gene subfamilies, but no families, were found to be lineage-specific. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that nearly half of the TF genes form clear orthologous pairs or groups, which were derived from 383 ancestral genes in the common ancestor of rice and Arabidopsis. Investigating gene duplication mechanisms revealed twelve pairs of large intragenomic duplicated blocks, which account for more than 40% of the rice genome. About 60% of the duplicated TF genes have been retained on duplicated segments. Functional conservation and diversification of TFs across monocot and eudicot lineages are discussed.
16217613	The capability to modify a genomic sequence into a designed sequence is a powerful tool for biologists and breeders to elucidate the function of an individual gene and its cis-acting elements of multigene families in the genome. Gene targeting refers to the alteration of a specific DNA sequence in an endogenous gene at its original locus in the genome. In higher plants, however, the overwhelming occurrence of the random integration of transgenes by non-homologous end-joining is the main obstacle to develop efficient gene targeting. Two approaches have been undertaken to modify a genomic sequence in higher plants- chimeric RNA/DNA oligonucleotide-directed gene targeting to generate a site-specific base conversion, and homologous recombination-dependent gene targeting to produce either a base change or a gene replacement in a sequence-specific manner. The successful and reproducible targeting of an endogenous gene by homologous recombination, independently of gene-specific selection by employing a strong positive-negative selection, has been demonstrated for the first time in rice, an important staple food and a model plant for other cereal species. This review addresses the current status of targeting of an endogenous natural gene in rice and other higher plants and discusses possible models for Agrobacterium- mediated gene targeting by homologous recombination using a strong positive-negative selection.
16217755	Evidence that the insulin pathway may be involved in breast carcinogenesis has increased the interest in dietary factors that influence insulin secretion and resistance. We investigated dietary carbohydrate, fibre, glycaemic index (GI) and glycaemic load (GL) in a prospective study of 324 breast cancers diagnosed in 12,273 post-menopausal women. Although an increase of 1 standard deviation in carbohydrate was marginally associated with risk of breast cancer, relative risk (RR) 1.31 (95% CI, 0.98, 1.75), there were no significant associations with fibre, 1.08 (0.92, 1.26), GI, 0.98 (0.88, 1.10) or GL, 1.19 (0.93, 1.52) or with carbohydrate foods (bread, rice, pasta). The RR for carbohydrate and localized disease was elevated, 1.40 (1.02, 1.92), but like those for fibre, GI and GL did not differ significantly between localized and non-localized disease. RRs for grade I, but not grade II or III, tumours were elevated for fibre, 1.38 (1.08, 1.75), carbohydrate, 1.56 (1.08, 2.25) and GL, 1.41 (1.01, 1.98) but not for GI, 0.84 (0.65, 1.09). The RRs for fibre and oestrogen receptor (ER) positive (+) and progesterone receptor (PR) positive (+) tumours, 1.36 (1.10, 1.67), differed significantly from those for ER positive (+) and PR negative (-) tumours, 1.01 (0.61, 1.69) and ER-/PR- tumours, 0.65 (0.43, 0.99), p = 0.005. Our data do not support a strong role for GI and GL in breast carcinogenesis but suggest that increased intake of fibre and carbohydrate may be associated with the diagnosis of cancers of more favourable prognosis.
16218673	The influence of the lipid extraction process on both macroscopic and microscopic characteristics of nonwaxy rice starch gelatinization in excess water was examined. Surface lipids extraction did not change the thermodynamics of starch gelatinization but lead to a significant reduction (33%) in the enthalpy of starch-lipid complex melting at high temperature, resulting in less viscous dispersions. Internal lipid extraction using hot aqueous alcoholic solutions resulted in an irreversible increase in starch granule diameter (50% increase in D[4,3]) and a dramatic change in cooking characteristics of the starch. Instead of the bimodal swelling observed for native nonwaxy rice starch, only one broad transition in swelling, solubility, granule size, and viscosity was observed in the case of the totally defatted starch. While the total removal of lipids resulted in a slight increase in starch swelling at intermediate temperatures, the harshness of the process caused irreparable changes leading to notably lower swelling at high temperatures.
16218677	The contents of free and total phenolic acids and alk(en)ylresorcinols were analyzed in commercial products of eight grains: oat (Avena sativa), wheat (Triticum spp.), rye (Secale cerale), barley (Hordeum vulgare), buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum), millet (Panicum miliaceum), rice (Oryza sativa), and corn (Zea mays). Avenanthramides were determined in three oat products. Free phenolic acids, alk(en)ylresorcinols, and avenanthramides were extracted with methanolic acetic acid, 100% methanol, and 80% methanol, respectively, and quantified by HPLC. The contents of total phenolic acids were quantified by HPLC analysis after alkaline and acid hydrolyses. The highest contents of total phenolic acids were in brans of wheat (4527 mg/kg) and rye (4190 mg/kg) and in whole-grain flours of these grains (1342 and 1366 mg/kg, respectively). In other products, the contents varied from 111 mg/kg (white wheat bread) to 765 mg/kg (whole-grain rye bread). Common phenolic acids found in the grain products were ferulic acid (most abundant), ferulic acid dehydrodimers, sinapic acid, and p-coumaric acid. The grain products were found to contain either none or only low amounts of free phenolic acids. The content of avenanthramides in oat flakes (26-27 mg/kg) was about double that found in oat bran (13 mg/kg). The highest contents of alk(en)ylresorcinols were observed in brans of rye (4108 mg/kg) and wheat (3225 mg/kg). In addition, whole-grain rye products (rye bread, rye flour, and whole-wheat flour) contained considerable levels of alk(en)ylresorcinols (524, 927, and 759 mg/kg, respectively).
16219071	Here, severe interference of chlorophyll with green fluorescent protein (GFP) fluorescence is described for medicago (Medicago truncatula), rice (Oryza sativa) and arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). This interference disrupts the proportional relationship between GFP content and fluorescence that is intrinsic to its use as a quantitative reporter. The involvement of chlorophyll in the loss of GFP fluorescence with leaf age was shown in vivo, by the removal of chlorophyll through etiolation or by ethanol extraction, and in vitro, by titration of a GFP solution with chlorophyll solutions of various concentrations. A substantial decrease in fluorescence in early development of medicago and rice leaves correlated with chlorophyll accumulation. In all three species tested, removal of chlorophyll yielded up to a 10-fold increase in fluorescence. Loss of GFP fluorescence in vitro was 4-fold greater for chlorophyll b than for chlorophyll a. Differences exist between plant species for the discrepancy between apparent GFP fluorescence and its actual level in green tissues. Substantial errors in estimating promoter activity from GFP fluorescence can occur if pigment interference is not considered.
16219074	A novel mapping population consisting of 39 chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) was used to locate the putative quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for cadmium (Cd) concentration in brown rice (Oryza sativa). The mapping population carried a single chromosome segment of 'Kasalath' (indica) in each line overlapping with neighbouring segments in a 'Koshihikari' (japonica) genetic background. The parents and CSSLs were grown in pots filled with Cd-polluted soil until grain filling. The brown rice of three of the 39 CSSLs had significantly lower Cd concentrations than that of Koshihikari, and the brown rice of a further three had significantly higher concentrations. On the basis of graphical genotypes of CSSLs, putative QTLs controlling the Cd concentration in brown rice were detected on chromosomes 3, 6 and 8. Each of the CSSLs was nearly isogenic to Koshihikari, which is the most popular rice cultivar in Japan: they carried > 90% of the Koshihikari genetic background. Therefore, the development of a new Koshihikari with less Cd concentration in brown rice would be feasible in the near future.
16219084	Plant disease susceptibility is often increased by nitrogen (N) application. Therefore, it is important to know if resistance loci are effective in different plant N environments. One-hundred lines of the Bala x Azucena rice (Oryza sativa) mapping population were grown in two N treatments and tested for partial resistance to blast (Magnaporthe grisea) isolate CD100. Disease severity (DS), the number and size of lesions and plant N and C concentrations were measured and the results subject to quantitative trait loci (QTL) and QTL x environment analysis. There was a 66% higher plant N concentration in the high N treatment and DS increased significantly, mostly as a result of increased numbers of lesions. Nine regions contained QTL for disease traits but only one showed evidence of statistically significant QTL x treatment interaction. This was a large effect quantitative trait locus at marker R1933 on chromosome 12 which was less effective at high N. Apparently, blast disease is increased by higher plant N, but the efficacy of partial resistance genes is not greatly affected by N application.
16219420	A fixed bed of sodium carbonate treated rice husk was used for the removal of Cd(II) from water environment. The material as adopted was found to be an efficient media for the removal of Cd(II) in continuous mode using fixed bed column. The column having a diameter of 2 cm, with different bed depths such as 10, 20 and 30 cm could treat 2.96, 5.70 and 8.55 l of Cd(II) bearing wastewater with Cd(II) concentration 10 mg/l and flow rate 9.5 ml/min. Different column design parameters like depth of exchange zone, adsorption rate, adsorption capacity, etc. was calculated. Effect of flow rate and initial concentration was studied. Theoretical breakthrough curve was drawn from the batch isotherm data and it was compared with experimental breakthrough curve. An amount of 0.01 mol/l HCl solution was used for desorption of adsorption column. Column regeneration and reuse studies were conducted for two cycles of adsorption-desorption.
16219431	The genome-wide detection of alternative splicing and transcriptional initiation (ASTI) was conducted in six eukaryotes (human, mouse, fruit fly, nematode, cress and rice) whose genome sequencing has been completed or nearly completed. Transcriptional isoforms were collected by mapping a batch of full-length cDNA sequences onto the respective cognate genomic sequences. Isoforms mapped on the same gene locus were compared pair-wise, ASTI patterns were segmented into minimal spans, and then the minimal patterns (ASTI units) were classified into unique types, such as the cassette type or the alternative donor site. All these procedures were performed automatically under the same conditions so that the results obtained from different species could be compared directly. The fraction of loci that underwent ASTI of the total mapped loci was the largest for mammals and fruit fly, and the smallest for plants. Exactly the same trend was observed for the number of unique ASTI types found in each species. The observed fractional representations of the ASTI types were similar between evolutionarily close species, such as human and mouse or cress and rice. On the other hand, the relative orders of abundance in individual ASTI type were considerably different between evolutionarily distant species, such as between mammals and plants. In human and mouse, alternative splicing other than the retained introns tended to occur within the protein coding sequence (CDS) regions rather than within the untranslated regions (UTRs), whereas this tendency was obscure in the other four species. In all the species examined, the difference in alternative exon lengths was most likely in multiples of three, and this tendency was most prominent when the alternative exons were embedded within the CDSs. These observations are generally consistent with the idea that higher organisms utilize the ASTI mechanisms more extensively and in a more complicated manner than lower organisms, and that ASTI actively participates in the enhancement of the functional and structural diversity of products generated from a limited number of genes on a genome.
1621965	Rice and petunia leaf and cell suspension protoplasts were transformed by electroporation in the presence of pDW2. This plasmid contains a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) coding region under the control of a promoter constructed from sequences of the cauliflower mosaic virus genome. We have compared two different approaches to measuring CAT activity in this system, namely high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and a radioisotope-based method. Our results show that both techniques have a similar detection limit of 10 mU CAT and (with an activity greater than 10 mU CAT) the standard error for measuring known amounts of CAT activity was less than +/- 12% for both assays. The HPLC technique, however, has a greater linear response range of 10-600 mU CAT than the radioisotope method, which has a range of 10-400 mU CAT. The HPLC assay also requires a shorter assay time. As a result of this work we believe that HPLC is a viable alternative to the radioisotope-based assay described.
16219921	PlantGDB (http://www.plantgdb.org/) is a database of plant molecular sequences. Expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences are assembled into contigs that represent tentative unique genes. EST contigs are functionally annotated with information derived from known protein sequences that are highly similar to the putative translation products. Tentative Gene Ontology terms are assigned to match those of the similar sequences identified. Genome survey sequences are assembled similarly. The resulting genome survey sequence contigs are matched to ESTs and conserved protein homologs to identify putative full-length open reading frame-containing genes, which are subsequently provisionally classified according to established gene family designations. For Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), the exon-intron boundaries for gene structures are annotated by spliced alignment of ESTs and full-length cDNAs to their respective complete genome sequences. Unique genome browsers have been developed to present all available EST and cDNA evidence for current transcript models (for Arabidopsis, see the AtGDB site at http://www.plantgdb.org/AtGDB/; for rice, see the OsGDB site at http://www.plantgdb.org/OsGDB/). In addition, a number of bioinformatic tools have been integrated at PlantGDB that enable researchers to carry out sequence analyses on-site using both their own data and data residing within the database.
16219924	Ambiguous germplasm identification; difficulty in tracing pedigree information; and lack of integration between genetic resources, characterization, breeding, evaluation, and utilization data are constraints in developing knowledge-intensive crop improvement programs. To address these constraints, the International Crop Information System (www.icis.cgiar.org), a database system for the management and integration of global information on genetic resources and crop improvement for any crop, was developed by genetic resource specialists, crop scientists, and information technicians associated with the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research and collaborative partners. The International Rice Information System (www.iris.irri.org) is the rice (Oryza species) implementation of the International Crop Information System. New components are now being added to the International Rice Information System to handle the diversity of rice functional genomics data including genomic sequence data, molecular genetic data, expression data, and proteomic information. Users access information in the database through stand-alone programs and Web interfaces, which offer specialized applications and customized views to researchers with different interests.
16220344	Superoxide dismutases (SODs) are ubiquitous metalloenzymes in aerobic organisms that play a crucial role in protecting organisms against ROS. Here, we report the molecular cloning and functional characterization of a novel alternatively spliced variant of the iron-superoxide dismutase gene, OsFe-SODb, from a rice panicle cDNA library. The alternative splicing event occurred in the fourth exon of the OsFe-SOD gene, and led to the translation of two isoforms of different sizes. The 5' flanking region of the OsFe-SOD was cloned and many cis-acting regulatory elements were found that are involved in light responsiveness, including a G-box and an I-box. RT-PCR analysis showed that the two alternative forms of OsFe-SOD were expressed in both the vegetative and reproductive tissues of Cpslo17. Moreover, accumulation of both isoforms was upregulated by light induction. In addition, the alternative splicing of OsFe-SOD mRNA was sensitive to low temperature. High yield production of the two recombinant OsFe-SOD isoforms was achieved in Escherichia coli. SOD assays showed that C-terminal truncation in OsFe-SODb did not result in a loss of SOD enzyme activity.
16220963	The mechanism of the C(6)H(5) + C(2)H(2) reaction has been investigated by various quantum chemical methods. Electrophilic addition to the CC triple bond is found to be the only important mode of phenyl radical attack on acetylene. The initially formed chemically activated C(6)H(5)C(2)H(2) adducts may follow several isomerization pathways in competition with collisional stabilization and H-elimination. Thermochemistry of various decomposition and isomerization channels is evaluated by the G2M method. For key intermediates, the following standard enthalpies of formation have been deduced from isodesmic reactions: 94.2 +/- 2.0 kcal/mol (C(6)H(5)CHCH), 86.4 +/- 2.0 kcal/mol (C(6)H(5)CCH(2)), and 95.5 +/- 1.8 kcal/ mol (o-C(6)H(4)C(2)H(3)). The accuracy of theoretical predictions was examined through extensive comparisons with available experimental and theoretical data. The kinetics and product branching of the C(6)H(5) + C(2)H(2) reaction have been evaluated by weak collision master equation/Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) analysis of the truncated kinetic model including only kinetically important transformations of the isomeric C(8)H(7) radicals. Available experimental kinetic data can be quantitatively reproduced by calculation with a minor adjustment of the C(6)H(5) addition barrier from 3.7 to 4.1 kcal/mol. Our predicted total rate constant, k(R1) = (1.29 x 10(10))T(0.834) exp(-2320/T) cm(3) mol(-)(1) s(-)(1), is weakly dependent on P and corresponds to the phenylation process under combustion conditions (T > 1000 K).
16221572	MicroRNAs, an abundant class of tiny non-coding RNAs, have emerged as negative regulators for translational repression or cleavage of target mRNAs by the manner of complementary base paring in plants and animals. Recent studies have demonstrated that many known microRNAs have a remarkable propensity to target genes involved in development, particularly those of transcription factor genes. Therefore, an overall detection of Arabidopsis thaliana microRNAs targeting transcription factor genes will enhance greatly our understanding of microRNA biological functions in plant development. By searching short complementary sequences between transcription factor open-reading frames and intergenic region sequences, and considering RNA secondary structures and the sequence conversation between the genomes of Arabidopsis and Oryza sativa, we detected 96 candidate Arabidopsis microRNAs. These candidate microRNAs were predicted to target 102 transcription factor genes that are classified as 28 transcription factor gene families, particularly those of DNA-binding transcription factor families, which imply that microRNAs might be involved in complex transcriptional regulatory networks for specifying individual cell types in plant development.
16222085	With the completion of the rice genome sequence in 2002, the study on functional genomics in rice has become a major task. Establishment of rice mutant library is an essential approach for rice functional genomics study. At present, utilizing maize transposable element Ac/Ds (Activator/Dissociation) is a promising method to construct insertional mutagenesis library of rice. Ac/Ds tagging system has received extensive application in rice during the past several years, but it is still confronted with practical problems. In this paper, constructing rice insertional mutagenesis library using Ac/Ds-tagging system and transpositional behaviors of an Ac/Ds-tagging system, difficulties and advantages are reviewed. The research advances and challenge in rice functional genomics study using Ac/Ds tagging system are also discussed and summarized in the paper.
16222091	Glutamine synthetase (GS, EC6.3.1.2) is a key enzyme in ammonia assimilation both in plants and in Gram-negative microorganisms. It plays an important role in efficient use of nitrogen sources and nitrogen metabolism in organisms. Two groups of GS isoenzymes, plastidic (GS2) and cytosolic (GS1), have been identified in higher plants. A plant constitutive expression vector p2GS harboring GS1 and GS2 under the control of rice actin 1 (Act1) and maize ubiquitin (Ubi) promoters was constructed for the first time in a single plasmid, and 3 rounds of ligation and transformation were performed. There has been no report about studies on rice transformation with the two GS enzymes (GS1 and GS2). The p2GS thus constructed was introduced into rice var. Zhonghua 10 by Agrobacterium-mediated transfer method, and transgenic plants with resistance to hygromycin (Hyg) were obtained. Results of PCR and Southern blot analysis showed that the foreign genes have been integrated into the rice genome. The transcription of GS1-GS2 genes in the transformants was also confirmed by Northern blot analysis. The transgenic rice plants thus obtained can grow well in an MS medium in which the nitrogen source was replaced by (NH(4))(2)SO(4) 0.7 mmol/L, and fresh weight of the transformants was significantly higher than the control rice plants. The result suggests that expression of p2GS makes the transgenic rice plants tolerant to nitrogen-deficiency.
16222514
16222775	An ethyl acetate extract of Oryza sativa (rice) hulls yielded seven compounds: hentriacontane, 1-tetratriacontanol, beta-sitosterol, momilactone A, momilactone B, tricin (a flavonoid), and beta-sitosterol-3-O-beta-D-glucoside. The structures of these compounds were elucidated with 500 MHz nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), using 1D and 2D spectral methods, aided by electron ionization mass spectrometry (EI-MS), fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry (FAB-MS), infrared (IR), and ultraviolet (UV) spectrophotometry. The complete 1H NMR assignments for momilactone A and B and 13C NMR assignments for tricin are discussed. To the best of our knowledge, hentriacontane, 1-tetratriacontanol, and beta-sitosterol-3-O-beta-D-glucoside were identified for the first time in rice hulls. In biological activity tests using these identified compounds, momilactone A and B showed potent inhibitory activity against duckweed (Lemna paucicostata). 1-Tetratriacontanol and beta-sitosterol-3-O-beta-D-glucoside also showed about 13-20% inhibitory activity based on chlorophyll reduction. Hentriacontane and beta-sitosterol did not show any herbicidal activity. In a germination assay of three weed species (Leptochloa chinenesis L., Amaranthus retroflexus L., and Cyperus difformis L.) in culture tubes both momilactones A and B had high inhibitory effects. Momilactone B completely inhibited germination of all three weed species at 20 ppm. Germination of L. chinensis L. was completely inhibited by a 4 ppm solution of momilactone B.
16223301	Ab initio calculations employing the configuration interaction method including Davidson's corrections for quadruple excitations have been carried out to unravel the dissociation mechanism of acetylene dication in various electronic states and to elucidate ultrafast acetylene-vinylidene isomerization recently observed experimentally. Both in the ground triplet and the lowest singlet electronic states of C2H2(2+) the proton migration barrier is shown to remain high, in the range of 50 kcal/mol. On the other hand, the barrier in the excited 2 3A" and 1 3A' states decreases to about 15 and 34 kcal/mol, respectively, indicating that the ultrafast proton migration is possible in these states, especially, in 2 3A", even at relatively low available vibrational energies. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations of individual reaction-rate constants and product branching ratios indicate that if C2H(2)2+ dissociates from the ground triplet state, the major reaction products should be CCH+(3Sigma-)+H+ followed by CH+(3Pi)+CH+(1Sigma+) and with a minor contribution (approximately 1%) of C2H+(2A1)+C+(2P). In the lowest singlet state, C2H+(2A1)+C+(2P) are the major dissociation products at low available energies when the other channels are closed, whereas at Eint>5 eV, the CCH+(1A')+H+ products have the largest branching ratio, up to 70% and higher, that of CH+(1Sigma+)+CH+(1Sigma+) is in the range of 25%-27%, and the yield of C2H++C+ is only 2%-3%. The calculated product branching ratios at Eint approximately 17 eV are in qualitative agreement with the available experimental data. The appearance thresholds calculated for the CCH++H+, CH++CH+, and C2H++C+ products are 34.25, 35.12, and 34.55 eV. The results of calculations in the presence of strong electric field show that the field can make the vinylidene isomer unstable and the proton elimination spontaneous, but is unlikely to significantly reduce the barrier for the acetylene-vinylidene isomerization and to render the acetylene configuration unstable or metastable with respect to proton migration.
16223710	The extensive post-transcriptional modification of U2 snRNA is required for spliceosome assembly and pre-mRNA splicing in vertebrates. However, the rare modification of U2 snRNA in yeast implies a different mechanism for regulating spliceosome biogenesis in single-celled eukaryotes. To understand the evolutionary pattern of U2 snRNA methylation, we determined for the first time, the 2'-O-methylations of U2 snRNA in Oryza sativa, Arabidopsis thaliana and Drosophila melanogaster, and revealed two methylations which are conserved in a crucial region of U2 snRNA in plants. Interestingly, one of the methylations, U2-Cm29 is also methylated in D. melanogaster, but not in vertebrates. According to the methylation of U2-C29, computational analysis of databases identified three canonical box C/D snoRNAs, named OsmgU2-29, AtmgU2-29 and DmmgU2-28, as small methylation guides of U2 snRNA from O. sativa, A. thaliana and D. melanogaster, respectively. Although very divergent in their sequence, the three snoRNAs exhibit in common an 11 nucleotide-long sequence complementarity to corresponding U2 snRNA, implying a functional constraint on the modification during evolution. Interestingly, a nucleotide is found to be inserted both in U2 snRNA and DmmgU2-28 and maintains a perfect match of duplex specifying the methylation of C28 in Drosophila U2 snRNA. This is the first time a new model is being provided for compensatory mutations between a small guide RNA and its target by nucleotide insertion, instead of the known nucleotide substitution. In contrast to small Cajal body-specific RNAs (scaRNAs), the snoRNAs are similar to the reported singlet guide RNAs and are known to localize in nucleolus.
16224002
16224965	Crude rice bran oil contains tocopherols (vitamin E), carotenoids (vitamin A), and phytosterols, which possess antioxidant activities and show promising effects as preventive and therapeutic agents. The aim of this work was to establish methods and to compare C18 and C30 silica stationary phases in order to separate and detect tocopherols, carotenoids, and gamma-oryzanol in one single run. Comparing RP-LC on silica C18 and C30, higher resolution between all target compounds was obtained using the C30 stationary phase. Methanol was used as eluent and the elution strength was increased by the addition of tert-butyl methyl ether for highly hydrophobic analytes such as gamma-oryzanol. Detection was accomplished by diode array detection from 200 to 500 nm. Absorbance maxima were found at 295 nm for tocopherols, 324 nm for gammaoryzanol, and 450 nm for carotenoids. Furthermore, compounds were characterized and identified on the basis of their UV-spectra. Both RP systems were coupled to MS (LC-MS) by using an atmospheric pressure chemical ionization interface.
16225698	Ginkgo biloba L. is the only surviving member of one of the oldest living seed plant groups with medicinal, spiritual and horticultural importance worldwide. As an evolutionary relic, it displays many characters found in the early, extinct seed plants and extant cycads. To establish a molecular base to understand the evolution of seeds and pollen, we created a cDNA library and EST dataset from the reproductive structures of male (microsporangiate), female (megasporangiate), and vegetative organs (leaves) of Ginkgo biloba. RNA from newly emerged male and female reproductive organs and immature leaves was used to create three distinct cDNA libraries from which 6,434 ESTs were generated. These 6,434 ESTs from Ginkgo biloba were clustered into 3,830 unigenes. A comparison of our Ginkgo unigene set against the fully annotated genomes of rice and Arabidopsis, and all available ESTs in Genbank revealed that 256 Ginkgo unigenes match only genes among the gymnosperms and non-seed plants--many with multiple matches to genes in non-angiosperm plants. Conversely, another group of unigenes in Gingko had highly significant homology to transcription factors in angiosperms involved in development, including MADS box genes as well as post-transcriptional regulators. Several of the conserved developmental genes found in Ginkgo had top BLAST homology to cycad genes. We also note here the presence of ESTs in G. biloba similar to genes that to date have only been found in gymnosperms and an additional 22 Ginkgo genes common only to genes from cycads. Our analysis of an EST dataset from G. biloba revealed genes potentially unique to gymnosperms. Many of these genes showed homology to fully sequenced clones from our cycad EST dataset found in common only with gymnosperms. Other Ginkgo ESTs are similar to developmental regulators in higher plants. This work sets the stage for future studies on Ginkgo to better understand seed and pollen evolution, and to resolve the ambiguous phylogenetic relationship of G. biloba among the gymnosperms.
16225949	The antimicrobial effect of the broad-spectrum bacteriocin enterocin AS-48 against the toxicogenic psychrotrophic strain Bacillus cereus LWL1 has been investigated in a model food system consisting of boiled rice and in a commercial infant rice-based gruel dissolved in whole milk stored at temperatures of 37 degrees C, 15 degrees C and 6 degrees C. In food samples supplemented with enterocin AS-48 (in a concentration range of 20-35 mug/ml), viable cell counts decreased rapidly over incubation time, depending on the bacteriocin concentration, the temperature of incubation and the food sample. Enterotoxin production at 37 degrees C was also inhibited. Heat sensitivity of endospores increased markedly in food samples supplemented with enterocin AS-48: inactivation of endospores was achieved by heating for 1 min at 90 degrees C in boiled rice or at 95 degrees C in rice-based gruel. Activity of enterocin AS-48 in rice gruel was potentiated by sodium lactate in a concentration-dependent way.
16226403	A cDNA (BG-15) was isolated through differential screening of a cDNA library made from an ABA-treated bromegrass (Bromus inermis Leyss) suspension cell culture. The 819 bp pair cDNA encoded a 174 amino acid polypeptide with a calculated molecular mass of 18.08 kD and isolectric point of 7.50. The deduced amino acid sequences for the cDNA were 29.5% and 32.6% homologous to the known amino acid-selective channel proteins of the chloroplastic outer membrane in pea and barley, but were highly homologous (55.6% to 83.2%) to the putative membrane channel proteins from rice and Arabidopsis. Immunogold localization demonstrated that the channel protein encoded by this cDNA was present on the peroxisome membrane. High stringency southern analysis revealed that 1 to 2 copies of the peroxisomal channel protein (PCP) genes were present in the bromegrass genome. Northern and Western blots revealed that the PCP gene was responsive to both cold and drought stresses, and was rapidly induced by ABA (75 microM). The transcript of the PCP gene also accumulated during late embryogenesis, but declined rapidly during germination. Data taken together, responsiveness of the PCP to cold and drought stresses, and accumulation during late embryogenesis suggest this novel peroxisomal channel protein is associated with sugar and fatty acid metabolism through fatty acid import or succinate export from peroxisome during desiccation tolerance and energy metabolism.
16226830	This review evaluates and summarizes the results of long-term research projects, monitoring programs and published papers concerning the pollution of surface waters (rivers and lakes) of Greece by pesticides. Pesticide classes mostly detected involve herbicides used extensively in corn, cotton and rice production, organophosphorus insecticides as well as the banned organochlorines insecticides due to their persistence in the aquatic environment. The compounds most frequently detected were atrazine, simazine, alachlor, metolachlor and trifluralin of the herbicides, diazinon, parathion methyl of the insecticides and lindane, endosulfan and aldrin of the organochlorine pesticides. Rivers were found to be more polluted than lakes. The detected concentrations of most pesticides follow a seasonal variation, with maximum values occurring during the late spring and summer period followed by a decrease during winter. Nationwide, in many cases the reported concentrations ranged in low ppb levels. However, elevated concentrations were recorded in areas of high pesticide use and intense agricultural practices. Generally, similar trends and levels of pesticides were found in Greek rivers compared to pesticide contamination in other European rivers. Monitoring of the Greek water resources for pesticide residues must continue, especially in agricultural regions, because the nationwide patterns of pesticide use are constantly changing. Moreover, emphasis should be placed on degradation products not sufficiently studied so far.
16226835	Tri-nucleotide repeats (TNRs) are extremely abundant in rice genome, of which CCG/CGG repeats have an advantage over other repeats, with approximate half of all the TNRs in the genome. Our results show that rice genome has relatively abundant TNRs with high GC content, and containing only purines or pyrimidines under the same GC content. The AAT/ATT repeats that occur predominantly in intergenic and intronic regions have a considerably higher average length than that of other repeats. The highest frequency of TNRs occurs in 5'-UTR regions, followed by in coding and 5'-flanking regions. Purines-rich TNRs prefer to the coding regions, but pyrimidines-rich TNRs exhibit a stronger bias to upstream regions, suggesting that they might be considered as the regulatory elements in gene expression. As if TNRs located predominantly near the start of coding regions do not significantly influence on the protein function.
16226886	Single cell protein was produced from the defatted rice polishings by fermentation with Candida utilis in an aerated 14-L fermentor to optimize bioprocess variables. Maximum values of specific growth rate coefficient (mu, h(-1)), cell mass yield (Y(X/S), g/g) and cell mass productivity (g/Lh) were 0.31, 0.65, and 1.24, respectively under optimized conditions of aeration rate (1 v.v(-1) m(-1)), dissolved oxygen (50%), corn steep liquor (5%), temperature (35 degrees C), and substrate concentration (90 g rice polishings/L) in yeast salt medium (pH 6.0). The kinetic parameters for 50-L fermentor under same conditions were 0.33 h(-1), 0.66 g/g, 1.33 g/Lh, 2.25 g/Lh, 1.23 g/Lh, 0.45 g/g substrate and 0.20 g/g cell h for mu, Y(X/S), Q(X), Q(S), Q(CP), Y(TP/S), and q(CP), respectively and were significantly higher than their respective values reported on C. utilis in batch culture studies. This biomass protein contained 23.6%, 32.75%, 11.50%, 12.95%, 10.5%, and 0.275% true protein, crude protein, crude fiber, ash, cellulose and RNA content respectively. This implied that the fermentation process could be up scaled to manufacture animal feed. Gross metabolizable energy content of dried SCP was 29,711 kcal/kg and indicated that the SCP could serve both as energy as well as a protein source. Yeast can replace expensive feed ingredients currently being incorporated in poultry feed and can reduce cost of poultry ration by 0.33 US dollars-0.51 US dollars/100 kg bag and improve the economics of feed production in our country.
1622734	We examined whether orally administered RBS (rice bran saccharide), prepared from rice bran by hot water extraction, increases immunocompetence, inhibits gastrointestinal carcinogenesis with N-ethyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (ENNG) or shows an antitumor effect. After the administration of RBS, phytohemagglutinin (PHA)- and pokeweed mitogen (PWM)-stimulated blastogenesis of lymphocytes derived from the mesenteric lymph nodes and peripheral blood was enhanced, and the helper/suppressor T-cell ratio was elevated, and migration activity of peritoneal macrophages was also increased in rats treated continuously with ENNG. ENNG-induced gastrointestinal carcinomas were observed in 43% of those administered RBS (ENNG-RBS) as compared with 88% in the control (ENNG) and 94% in the prednisolone (PRD) group (ENNG-PRD). The 12-month survival rate of rats bearing gastrointestinal cancer was 58% in the ENNG-RBS group as compared with 25% in the ENNG group and 15% in the ENNG-PRD group. RBS prevented the reduction in immunocompetence in the course of carcinogenesis, suppressed carcinogenesis, and prolonged the survival of rats with gastrointestinal cancer. Antitumor activities of RBS are thought to be a kind of host mediated action. The growth inhibition ratio of transplantable ENNG-induced cancer in Wistar rats was 42.1% in the RBS and 51.8% in the 5-FU group. Since little is known about the potent antitumor activity of alpha-glucan, it would be interesting to consider the relationship between the structure and the biological activities of polysaccharides.
1622761	Heat-pasteurized cassava root, cowpeas, partially defatted peanuts, rice and soybeans were evaluated for their suitability to support growth and sporulation of the tempeh mold, Rhizopus microsporus var. oligosporus, and the oncom mold, Neurospora intermedia, at 25, 30 and 37 degrees C. The molds grew best and sporulated most luxuriantly on cassava and rice incubated at 37 degrees C. Viability of molds remained high for up to 30 weeks when dried (a(w) 0.48), powdered substrates on which the molds had been cultured, were stored at 5, 25 and 37 degrees C. Survival was best when powders were stored at 5 degrees C, although storage at 25 degrees C did not cause a marked decline in CFU/g. R. microsporus var. oligosporus starter cultures produced on rice and then stored for 20 weeks at these temperatures compared most favorably with commercial starter cultures for preparing high-quality soybean tempeh. The simple technology required to prepare these starter cultures enhances the potential for their application in developing countries where the introduction of nontraditional fermented legume foods to low-protein diets could help to ameliorate malnutrition.
16228246	In order to understand the molecular mechanisms involved in the gene-for-gene type of pathogen resistance, high-resolution genetic and physical mapping of resistance loci is required to facilitate map-based cloning of resistance genes. Here, we report the molecular mapping and cloning of a dominant gene (Pi-k (h)) present in the rice line Tetep, which is associated with resistance to rice blast disease caused by Magnaporthe grisea. This gene is effective against M. grisea populations prevalent in the Northwestern Himalayan region of India. Using 178 sequence tagged microsatellite, sequence-tagged site, expressed sequence tag and simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers to genotype a population of 208 F(2) individuals, we mapped the Pi-k (h) gene between two SSR markers (TRS26 and TRS33) which are 0.7 and 0.5 cM away, respectively, and can be used in marker-assisted-selection for blast-resistant rice cultivars. We used the markers to identify the homologous region in the genomic sequence of Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare, and a physical map consisting of two overlapping bacterial artificial chromosome and P1 artificial chromosome clones was assembled, spanning a region of 143,537 bp on the long arm of chromosome 11. Using bioinformatic analyses, we then identified a candidate blast-resistance gene in the region, and cloned the homologous sequence from Tetep. The putative Pi-k (h) gene cloned from Tetep is 1.5 kbp long with a single ORF, and belongs to the nucleotide binding site-leucine rich repeat class of disease resistance genes. Structural and expression analysis of the Pi-k (h) gene revealed that its expression is pathogen inducible.
16228366	Rice genome research is a recent topic in plant genomics. Because of its importance as the primary staple food for about half of the world's population, breeders, geneticists and molecular biologists in plant fields have strong interest in the resultant research. In this Minireview, results of rice genome research during the past 10 years and future prospects are presented.
16228378	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) was overproduced in the leaves of rice plants by introducing the intact maize C(4)-specific PEPC gene. Maize PEPC in transgenic rice leaves underwent activity regulation through protein phosphorylation in a manner similar to endogenous rice PEPC but contrary to that occurring in maize leaves, being downregulated in the light and upregulated in the dark. Compared with untransformed rice, the level of the substrate for PEPC (phosphoenolpyruvate) was slightly lower and the product (oxaloacetate) was slightly higher in transgenic rice, suggesting that maize PEPC was functioning even though it remained dephosphorylated and less active in the light. (14)CO(2) labeling experiments indicated that maize PEPC did not contribute significantly to the photosynthetic CO(2) fixation of transgenic rice plants. Rather, it slightly lowered the CO(2) assimilation rate. This effect was ascribable to the stimulation of respiration in the light, which was more marked at lower O(2) concentrations. It was concluded that overproduction of PEPC does not directly affect photosynthesis significantly but it suppresses photosynthesis indirectly by stimulating respiration in the light. We also found that while the steady-state stomatal aperture remained unaffected over a wide range of humidity, the stomatal opening under non-steady-state conditions was destabilized in transgenic rice.
16228477	Exposure of intact rice leaves to an irradiance of 1000 mumol m(-2) s(-1) at 6 degrees C for 2 h caused severe photoinhibition of Photosystem II. The rate and extent of photoinhbition were greatly exacerbated in leaves fed with 10 mM reduced glutathione (GSH) or 10 mM cysteine. Analyses of antioxidant enzyme activities as well as the application of protein synthesis inhibitors revealed that the increased sensitivity to photoinhibition following GSH feeding was not related to its effect on cellular antioxidant systems. On the other hand, feeding with GSH markedly suppressed the formation of zeaxanthin and antheraxanthin via the xanthophyll cycle and its associated nonradiative energy dissipation in leaves chilled in high light, suggesting that the stimulating effect of exogenous GSH on photoinhibition may be attributable to its action on the xanthophyll cycle. In vitro experiments using isolated thylakoids indicated that GSH is a weak inhibitor of violaxanthin deepoxidation. The possible implications of these results are discussed.
16228537	The photosynthetic characteristics of four transgenic rice lines over-expressing rice NADP-malic enzyme (ME), and maize phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PC), pyruvate,orthophosphate dikinase (PK), and PC+PK (CK) were investigated using outdoor-grown plants. Relative to untransformed wild-type (WT) rice, PC transgenic rice exhibited high PC activity (25-fold increase) and enhanced activity of carbonic anhydrase (more than two-fold increase), while the activity of ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) and its kinetic property were not significantly altered. The PC transgenic plants also showed a higher light intensity for saturation of photosynthesis, higher photosynthetic CO(2) uptake rate and carboxylation efficiency, and slightly reduced CO(2) compensation point. In addition, chlorophyll a fluorescence analysis indicates that PC transgenic plants are more tolerant to photo-oxidative stress, due to a higher capacity to quench excess light energy via photochemical and non-photochemical means. Furthermore, PC and CK transgenic rice produced 22-24% more grains than WT plants. Taken together, these results suggest that expression of maize C(4) photosynthesis enzymes in rice, a C(3) plant, can improve its photosynthetic capacity with enhanced tolerance to photo-oxidation.
16229277	Evaluate the expression specificity of hpt gene in different developmental stages of sck transgenic rice. The different tissues, including leaves, culms, roots and seeds (ripening stage), in different developmental stages of sck transgenic rice were detected by PCR. The positive plants and the control plants were detected by Northern blot analysis and double sandwich ELISA test. The hpt gene expression was found at transcription level and translation level in different tissues of sck transgenic rice. HPT protein in the seeds could not be detected. The hpt gene in different developmental stages of sck transgenic rice express stably at transcription level and translation level and HPT protein in the seeds could not be detected.
16229576	The structures and energies of the reactants, products, and transition states of the initial steps in the gas-phase decomposition of dimethylnitramine (DMNA) have been determined by quantum chemical calculations at the B3LYP density-functional theory, MP2, and G2 levels. The pathways considered are NO2 elimination, HONO elimination, and nitro-nitrite rearrangement. The NO2 elimination is predicted to be the main channel of the gas-phase decomposition of DMNA in accord with experiment. The values of the Arrhenius parameters, log A=16.6+/-0.5 and Ea=40.0+/-0.6 kcal/mol, for the N-NO2 bond-fission reaction were obtained using a canonical variational theory with B3LYP energies and frequencies. The HONO-elimination channel has the next lowest activation energy of 44.7+/-0.5 kcal/mol (log A=13.6+/-0.5) and is characterized by a five-member transition-state configuration in which a hydrogen atom from one of the methyl groups is transferred to an oxygen atom of NO2. Tunneling contributions to the rate of this reaction have been estimated. The nitro-nitrite rearrangement reaction occurs via a transition state in which both oxygen atoms of NO2 are loosely bound to the central nitrogen atom, for which Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory predicts log A=14.4+/-0.6 and Ea=54.1+/-0.8 kcal/mol.
1622977	To test whether the glycaemic index is altered by the amount of carbohydrate, meals containing 25 and 50 g carbohydrate as white rice and white bread were taken by seven non-insulin-dependent diabetic subjects. The glycaemic indices to parboiled white rice corresponding to 25 and 50 g carbohydrate were similar, being 55 (SE 10) and 60 (SE 8) respectively. The incremental areas of blood glucose (above basal) to parboiled white rice were significantly lower than to white bread after both an amount corresponding to 25 g carbohydrate (85 (SE 24) mM x 180 min v. 181 (SE 55) mM x 180 min; P less than 0.01) and to 50 g carbohydrate 226 (SE 29) mM x 180 min v. 423 (SE 76) mM x 180 min; P less than 0.01). Similar insulin response areas to 25 g carbohydrate given as parboiled white rice and white bread were found, whereas 50 g carbohydrate as white bread caused a significantly higher insulin response area than parboiled white rice (P less than 0.05). In conclusion, the glycaemic index of parboiled white rice is not affected by the amount of carbohydrate ingested, at least under the present study conditions.
16230331	The Ypt/Rab family of small G-proteins is important in regulating vesicular transport. Rabs hydrolyze GTP very slowly on their own and require GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs). Here we report the identification and characterization of OsGAP1, a Rab-specific rice GAP. OsGAP1 strongly stimulated OsRab8a and OsRab11, which are homologs of the mammalian Rab8 and Rab11 proteins that are essential for Golgi to plasma membrane (PM) and trans-Golgi network (TGN) to PM trafficking, respectively. Substitution of two invariant arginines within the catalytic domain of Oryza sativa GTPase-activating protein 1 (OsGAP1) with alanines significantly inhibited its GAP activity. In vivo targeting experiments revealed that OsGAP1 localizes to the TGN or pre-vacuolar compartment (PVC). A yeast expression system demonstrated that wild-type OsGAP1 facilitates O. sativa dissociation inhibitor 3 (OsGDI3)-catalyzed OsRab11 recycling at an early stage, but the OsGAP1(R385A) and (R450A) mutants do not. Thus, GTP hydrolysis is essential for Rab recycling. Moreover, expression of the OsGAP1 mutants in Arabidopsis protoplasts inhibited the trafficking of some cargo proteins, including the PM-localizing H+-ATPase-green fluorescent protein (GFP) and Ca2+-ATPase8-GFP and the central vacuole-localizing Arabidopsis aleurain-like protein (AALP)-GFP. The OsGAP1 mutants caused these proteins to accumulate at the Golgi apparatus. Surprisingly, OsRab11 overproduction relieved the inhibitory effect of the OsGAP1 mutants on vesicular trafficking. OsRab8a had no such effect. Thus, the OsGAP1 mutants may inhibit TGN to PM or central vacuole trafficking because they induce the sequestration of endogenous Rab11. We propose that OsGAP1 facilitates vesicular trafficking from the TGN to the PM or central vacuole by both stimulating the GTPase activity of OsRab11 and increasing the recycling of inactive OsRab11.
16230639	Although cereal crops all belong to the grass family (Poacea), most of their diseases are specific to a particular species. Thus, a given cereal species is typically resistant to diseases of other grasses, and this nonhost resistance is generally stable. To determine the feasibility of transferring nonhost resistance genes (R genes) between distantly related grasses to control specific diseases, we identified a maize R gene that recognizes a rice pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, which causes bacterial streak disease. Bacterial streak is an important disease of rice in Asia, and no simply inherited sources of resistance have been identified in rice. Although X. o. pv. oryzicola does not cause disease on maize, we identified a maize gene, Rxo1, that conditions a resistance reaction to a diverse collection of pathogen strains. Surprisingly, Rxo1 also controls resistance to the unrelated pathogen Burkholderia andropogonis, which causes bacterial stripe of sorghum and maize. The same gene thus controls resistance reactions to both pathogens and nonpathogens of maize. Rxo1 has a nucleotide-binding site-leucine-rich repeat structure, similar to many previously identified R genes. Most importantly, Rxo1 functions after transfer as a transgene to rice, demonstrating the feasibility of nonhost R gene transfer between cereals and providing a valuable tool for controlling bacterial streak disease.
16230647	Plasma lipid concentrations, lipoprotein composition, and glucose dynamics were measured and compared between mares fed diets containing added water, corn oil (CO), refined rice bran oil (RR), or crude rice bran oil (CR) to test the hypothesis that rice bran oil lowers plasma lipid concentrations, alters lipoprotein composition, and improves insulin sensitivity in mares. Eight healthy adult mares received a basal diet fed at 1.5 times the DE requirement for maintenance and each of the four treatments according to a repeated 4 x 4 Latin square design consisting of four 5-wk feeding periods. Blood samples were collected for lipid analysis after mares were deprived of feed overnight at 0 and 5 wk. Glucose dynamics were assessed at 0 and 4 wk in fed mares by combined intravenous glucose-insulin tolerance tests. Plasma glucose and insulin concentrations were measured, and estimated values of insulin sensitivity (SI), glucose effectiveness, and net insulin response were obtained using the minimal model. Mean BW increased (P = 0.014) by 29 kg (range = 10 to 50 kg) over 5 wk. Mean plasma concentrations of NEFA, triglyceride (TG), and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) decreased (P < 0.001) by 55, 30, and 39%, respectively, and plasma high-density lipoprotein and total cholesterol (TC) concentrations increased (P < 0.001) by 15 and 12%, respectively, over 5 wk. Changes in plasma NEFA (r = 0.58; P < 0.001) and TC (r = 0.44; P = 0.013) concentrations were positively correlated with weight gain over 5 wk. Lipid components of VLDL decreased (P < 0.001) in abundance over 5 wk, whereas the relative protein content of VLDL increased by 39% (P < 0.001). Addition of oil to the basal diet instead of water lowered plasma NEFA and TG concentrations further (P = 0.002 and 0.020, respectively) and increased plasma TC concentrations by a greater magnitude (P = 0.072). However, only plasma TG concentrations and VLDL free cholesterol content were affected (P = 0.024 and 0.009, respectively) by the type of oil added to the diet. Mean plasma TG concentration decreased by 14.2 mg/dL over 5 wk in the CR group, which was a larger (P < 0.05) decrease than the one (-5.3 mg/dL) detected in mares that received water. Consumption of experimental diets lowered S(I), but glucose dynamics were not affected by oil supplementation. Addition of oil to the diet altered blood lipid concentrations, and supplementation with CR instead of water specifically affected plasma TG concentrations and VLDL free cholesterol content.
16231161	Drought is a major constraint to rice (Oryza sativa L.) production in rainfed and poorly irrigated environments. Identifying genomic regions influencing the response of yield and its components to water deficits will aid our understanding of the genetic mechanism of drought tolerance (DT) of rice and the development of DT varieties. Grain yield (GY) and its components of a recombinant inbred population developed from a lowland rice and an upland rice were investigated under different water levels in 2003 and 2004 in a rainout DT screening facility. Correlation and path analysis indicated that spikelet fertility (SF) was particularly important for grain yield with direct effect (P=0.60) under drought stress, while spikelet number per panicle (SN) contributed the most to grain yield (P=0.41) under well-watered condition. A total of 32 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for grain yield and its components were identified. The phenotypic variation explained by individual QTLs varied from 1.29% to 14.76%. Several main effect QTLs affecting SF, 1,000-grain weight (TGW), panicle number (PN), and SN were mapped to the same regions on chromosome 4 and 8. These QTLs were detected consistently across 2 years and under both water levels in this study. Several digenic interactions among yield components were also detected. The identification of genomic regions associated with GY and its components under stress will be useful to improve drought tolerance of rice by marker-aided approaches.
16231406
16231407
16231736	A mapping population of 81 F11 lines (Recombinant Inbred Lines, RILs), derived from a cross between a japonica variety Kinmaze and an indica variety DV85 by single-seed descent method, was used to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) for traits associated with photosynthetic functions. Total leaf nitrogen content (TLN), chlorophyll a/b ratio (Chl. a:b) and chlorophyll content (Chl) were measured in leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.) at the 7th day after heading. A total of six putative QTLs were detected with percentage of variance explained (PVE) ranging between 11.2% -29.6%, and LOD of QTLs 2.66-4.81. Of those putative QTLs, three for TLN were detected on chromosomes 1,2 and 11, with PVE of 17.3%, 15.3% and 13.7%, respectively;Two controlling Chl. a:b on chromosomes 3 and 4, PVE of 13.8% and 29.6%, one for Chl on chromosome 1, PVE of 11.2%. Four of those detected QTLs were newly reported in this study. Interestingly, the QTL controlling chlorophyll content,namely qCC-1 reported here,was detected in the region of the RFLP marker C122 on chromosome 1, where harbored NADH-glutamate synthase structure gene according to a previous study. Because the biosynthesis of chlorophyll begins with glutamate, qCC-1 would play a vital role in photosynthetic functions. Whereas,no QTL controlling chlorophyll content were detected at the 30th day after heading, suggesting that the effect of the QTL controlling chlorophyll content decreased during leaf senescence.
16231737	A novel population consisted of 86 single segment substitution lines (SSSLs) were developed from advanced backcrosses between the recipient, Huajingxian 74 and six donors by microsatellite marker-assisted selection (MAS). Fifty-two SSSLs were selected in BC3F2, and 34 others were selected in BC3F3. Every SSSL contains a single chromosome segment introgressed from one donor on the genetic background of Huajingxian 74. The substituted segments in SSSLs were distributed on 12 rice chromosomes. The estimated length of the substituted segments in SSSLs ranged from 1.5 cM to 56.3 cM with an average of 23.0 cM. Total of the substituted segments covered 57.1% of the rice genome.
16231738	Telomere sequences were analyzed by using pachytene chromosome and extended DNA fiber FISH in rice (Oryza, sativa ssp. indica cv. -Guangluai No.4). Pachytene FISH results showed that most of chromosome ends possess the telomere tandem repeats, but the signals on different chromosomes were not the same in intensity. Fiber FISH results indicated that the longest string of beads was 6.55 microm, while the shortest one was 1.82 microm long,which were equal to 16.44 and 4.56 kb correspondingly based on a stretching factor of 2.51 kb/microm. The average value of signal length was 3.62 +/- 1.32 microm, i.e. 9.09 +/- 3.31 kb. It could be estimated that the longest and the shortest as well as the average value were equal to 2,349,651 and 1298 +/- 473 of copy number respectively.
16231739	One hundred and thirty hybrids derived from the crosses between nine rice strains stabilized in early generation and seven cultivars (Oryza sativa L.). In their F2 populations, 32 uniform strains of different agronomic traits were observed. In the same combination of these uniform strains,there were strains segregating in the Mendelian manner. SSR markers analysis showed that F2 and F3 populations of the uniform strains and their F1 plants displayed the same markers indicating all the uniform strains were homozygous. All the marker bands of parents were simultaneously present on their progeny chromosomes, indicating that the uniform strains must true hybrid origin. The SSR markers of F2 population of segregating strains and their F1 plants showed that the segregating strains were heterzygosity. SSR marker band sites of RM276, RM258, RM248 and RM1 loci in most uniform strains presented at high frequencies bands site different from their parent's. We suggested that during the gamete formation,the genes that linked to ga-1, Rf and ga-8 mutated at certain frequency,and followed by a somatic meiosis of the fecundated zygote. Thus a haploid cell may develop into a homozygous embryo,and the F1 plant was homozygous and the progeny stabilized in early generation.
1623183
1623185
16232287	Cultivation-independent studies suggest that roots of rice (Oryza sativa) are colonized by a diverse community of nitrogen-fixing bacteria. Here we report for the first time mRNA-based profiling of nitrogenase (nifH) genes, to study the impact of lowland-rice genotypes at the cultivar level on the functional diversity of root-associated diazotrophs. Root RNA extracts from all plants contained nifH mRNA at levels detectable by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis of RT-PCR products showed only small interplant variations. However, RNA- and DNA-based profiles obtained from the same root extractions differed from each other, suggesting that presence of diazotrophs did not necessarily coincide with active transcription of nif genes. Application of N-fertilizer at planting had a long-term effect on the profile of expressed nitrogenase genes. Phylogenetic analysis of a clone library constructed for nifH fragments expressed in wild species of rice roots indicated that active diazotrophs were not related to cultured strains. The composition of active diazotrophic communities was compared for six related cultivars of O. sativa, wild species Oryza brachyantha, and a genetic cross between it and cv. IR56, grown under identical conditions in rice field soil in the Philippines without N-fertilizer application. Remarkable varietal differences in root associated nifH-gene expressing communities were detected. This underlines the importance of mRNA-based approaches to study functional diversity and eventually identify key diazotrophs in a particular environment.
16232297	Sinorhizobium meliloti strain 1021 and its closely related strain Rm2011 inhibit rice seedling (Oryza sativa L. cv. Pelde) growth and development under certain rice-growing conditions. Experiments showed that inoculation of seedlings with approximately less than 10 cells of 1021 was sufficient to cause this inhibition. By using a series of plasmid-cured and plasmid-deleted derivatives of Rm2011, it was found that interactions between genes encoded on pSymA, and possibly pSymB, of Rm2011, affected rice growth and development by affecting both/either the plant and/or the bacteria. Further studies found that genes potentially related to indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) synthesis and nitrate metabolism, encoded on pSymA, were involved in rice growth inhibition in Sm1021- and Sm2011-treated rice seedlings. We conclude that the rice growth inhibition by S. meliloti Sm1021 is pSymA-associated and is induced by environmental nitrate.
16232424	The phylogenetic position of Rhizobium huakuii bv. renge, a symbiont of Astragalus sinicus cv. Japan (renge-sou), was studied. The following phylogenetic approaches were used: restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of a full-length 16S rDNA fragment, 16S rDNA analysis of the first 300-bp sequence, bacteriophage typing, and amplification of the genomic region by random primer. All the data suggest that strains of R. huakuii bv. renge should be classified into subspecies of the new genus Mesorhizobium (Jarvis et al., Inter. J. System. Bacteriol., 47, 895-898, 1997) and renamed M. huakuii subsp. rengei. All the strains fell into a tight cluster which included M. loti and M. huakuii. The strains isolated from root nodules on A. sinicus were divided into three groups as follows: group I, M. huakuii subsp. rengei B3, M. huakuii subsp. rengei My6, M. huakuii subsp. rengei My7, M. huakuii subsp. rengei My3, and M. huakuii subsp. rengei OUT30020; group II, M. huakuii subsp. huakuii CCBAU103(T), M. huakuii subsp. huakuii ACCC13005, M. huakuii subsp. huakuii 7653R, and Mesorhizobium sp. N-1; group III, Mesorhizobium sp. OUT30019. All the strains isolated in Japan except strains N-1 and OUT30019 were classified into group I. Strains in group I were sensitive to bacteriophage H1 which was isolated from rice-paddy soil in Japan. Strains in groups II and III except for M. huakuii subsp. huakuii 7653R were resistant to phage H1. Rhizobium sp. ACMP18, a native symbiont of Astragalus cicer that forms nodules on A. sinicus, showed close similarity to M. huakuii subsp. huakuii CCBAU103(T), and should thus be classified as a Mesorhizobium sp. Taken together, the results of the analyses indicate that M. huakuii subsp. rengei forms a subgroup which is distinct from M. huakuii subsp. huakuii strains isolated in China and that strain B3 is the type strain.
16232461	A thermostable carboxymethyl cellulase (CMCase) was purified to homogeneity from a wheat bran culture of the thermophilic fungus Sporotrichum sp. HG-1, an isolate from a compost heap. The enzyme had a molecular weight (M(r)) of 33,000 by SDS-PAGE. The optimum temperature and pH for enzyme activity were 70 degrees C and 4.5-5.0, and the enzyme was heat stable. Uncooked Thai rice was digested so as to cause its disintegration by the addition of purified CMCase, but not by the addition of xylanase purified from strain HG-1. Ferulic acid conjugated to oligosaccharide was released significantly by the combined action of CMCase and xylanase, but the free form of ferulic acid was not detectable.
16232535	Embryogenic rice calli induced from mature rice (Oryza sativa L., Sasanishiki) were cultured in a jarfermentor with disk turbine impellers, an air-lift reactor, and a turbine-blade reactor (TBR(R)), and the effects of agitation were investigated. In all cases, the growth inhibition was observed, though a slightly improved regeneration frequency was obtained in the TBR. To overcome the growth inhibition, small cubes of polyurethane foam were used as immobilization supports in the TBR culture. Supports accumulated around the cylindrical stainless-steel mesh in the reactor and rice calli were observed growing in them. Polyurethane foam with an average pore size of 1.3 mm gave the maximum ratio of immobilized cells during 1-week culture. When 5- or 10-mm cubes were used, supports were observed floating on the medium surface, but 3-mm cube supports accumulated uniformly around the stainless-steel mesh and were found to be suitable for the immobilized culture of rice calli. Three-millimeter cube supports corresponding to 5% by volume were added to 600 ml medium in the TBR and the effects of the agitation speed on the cell growth and regeneration frequency were investigated. At all the agitation speeds examined, no significant decrease in either the cell growth or the regeneration frequency occurred. From these results, it was concluded that the TBR is a suitable reactor for the propagation of embryogenic rice calli and that immobilization supports with 1.3 mm of average pore size are effective in preventing hydrodynamic stress as well as in supplying nutrients to the immobilized calli.
16232611	In the supernatant of sokujo-moto, a high level of acid carboxypeptidase (ACP) activity and a large amount of peptides were observed, however, the amount of free amino acids liberated was small. In order to determine why these peptides were not hydrolyzed to any significant degree by the ACP, the properties of the peptides in sokujo-moto were investigated in this study. Peptides were fractionated from sokujo-moto by ion exchange column chromatography. ACP purified from rice-koji (rice overgrown with Aspergillus oryzae) was allowed to react with the peptides, and it was found that they were not hydrolyzed to any significant degree by the enzyme. Gel filtration chromatography was performed to ascertain the molecular size distribution of the peptides in sokujo-moto, and it was revealed that they were of low molecular sizes; molecular size: mainly in the range of 200-400, and chain length: 2-3. ACP purified from rice-koji was also allowed to react with various synthetic peptides, and it was found that ACP of rice-koji could not rapidly hydrolyze low-molecular-size peptides, such as dipeptides or tripeptides. Acid protease (AP) purified from rice-koji released peptides of molecular sizes mainly in the range of 300-600 or above from rice protein under acidic conditions (pH 3.6; the pH of sokujomoto). When AP and ACP were allowed to act at the same time on rice protein, mainly low-molecular-size peptides (molecular sizes mainly in the range of 200-400) were produced. From these results, it was estimated that AP released peptides with molecular sizes mainly in the range of 300-600 or above from rice protein and ACP degraded the relatively higher molecular size peptides among them to lower molecular size peptides; consequently only low-molecular-size peptides with molecular sizes mainly in the range of 200-400 were released in the supernatant of sokujo-moto.
16232657	It was found that a large amount of TCA (trichloroacetic acid)-insoluble peptides were liberated into the supernatant of kimoto on the 7th-10th day of mashing. These TCA-insoluble peptides had five polypeptide groups (12, 21, 31, 38, and 55 kDa) on SDS-PAGE (SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis), and a large amount of high molecular weight peptides, higher than 10,000, were observed upon gel filtration chromatography using TSKgel G2000swxl (Tosoh Co.). Four of these peptides (12, 21, 31, and 38 kDa on SDS-PAGE) appeared specifically in kimoto, and were not detected at all either in sokujo-moto or in the main mash for sake brewing. These TCA-insoluble peptides were fractionated from the supernatant of kimoto on the 9th day, and it was revealed that free amino acids were produced abundantly from them in the presence of the enzyme of rice-koji. Therefore, it was assumed that the peptides are related to the abundant production of free amino acids in kimoto. For the liberation of these TCA-insoluble peptides from rice protein, the enzyme of rice-koji was indispensable. The enzyme liberating the TCA-insoluble peptides from rice protein was purified from rice-koji, and was presumed to be identical with acid protease (AP) of rice-koji. The presence of a high concentration of glucose (higher than 20%) was also indispensable for the liberation of the TCA-insoluble peptides. Furthermore, it was revealed that the peptides were liberated from rice protein under a limited pH of around 4.5.
16232736	NAD-dependent formate dehydrogenase (FDH, EC 1.2.1.2.) plays a key role in the final step of the catabolism of methanol in methylotrophs. In certain plant species, this enzyme is a mitochondrial and NAD-dependent enzyme. In this study, the complete cDNA sequence of the rice (Oryza sativa cv Hinohikari) FDH gene, which contains an open reading frame (ORF) of 1128 bp, was determined. The sequence corresponds to a protein of 376 amino acids and shows strong homology to the NAD-dependent FDHs from other plants. Our experimental results showed that the expression of the rice cDNA in Escherichia coli induced FDH activity, indicating that the cDNA encodes a functional peptide of FDH. The application of formate to the roots of rice seedlings leads to growth increment both in terms of the length of the aerial part and the fresh weight. The FDH activity and the accumulation of FDH transcripts were strongly enhanced in the root portions of the formate-fed plants. This enhancement indicates that the transcriptional regulation which responds to formate functions in the rice plant, and that formate can act as an effective inducer for FDH activity.
16232799	In plants, environmental adversity often leads to the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) because of excess light energy. We found that incubation of rice leaves under high light intensity together with CO2-depleted air seriously damaged photosynthesis; however, the application of potassium formate (2 mM) before the photoinhibitory treatment protected the photosynthesis of the plant from photoinhibition. Further analysis revealed that formate protects PSII, RuBisCO, and FBPase from photoinhibition. Formate is thought to be involved in endogenous radical scavenging and/or in the supply of CO2, derived from the formate, thereby reducing oxidative damage to the photosystems under photoinhibitory conditions.
16232807	Fatty acid activation gene (FAA1) in sake yeast Kyokai no. 701 (K701) was disrupted to investigate the accumulation of ethyl caproate in sake mash. Ethyl caproate, recognized as an important apple-like flavor in sake, is generated by fatty acid synthesis in yeast cells. The disruptant for the FAA1 gene (K701deltafaa1) exhibited a reduced growth rate in a medium containing cerulenin and myristic acid or oleic acid compared with that of the parental strain (K701). In a sake brewing test in which the rice used was polished to 60% of its original size, the fermentation ability of K701deltafaa1 was inferior to that of K701 but the production of ethyl caproate by K701deltafaa1 was 1.6-fold higher than that by K701. These results suggest that the FAA1 gene in sake yeast plays an important role in sake brewing and the accumulation of ethyl caproate.
16232950	An in situ regeneration system for rice calli comprised of a callus growth stage and two regeneration stages was developed. After the first stage of regeneration, the medium is changed and the calli are immobilized in polyurethane foam supports, in each of which 3-5 regenerated plantlets develop from the immobilized calli during the second stage. While no significant change in callus size was observed during the first stage of regeneration, in the second stage callus enlargement and shoot regeneration predominated. In the light of these findings, calli were immobilized in the second stage after medium exchange. The use of 10-mm support cubes with an average pore size of 3.6 mm resulted in the most efficient immobilization and in situ regeneration. Medium exchange after 15 d gave the largest number of support cubes with shoots. When rice calli were cultivated in support cubes placed in 60 ml second-stage medium in a 500-ml flask, the immobilization ratio was 83%, and 82% of the support cubes contained 3-5 regenerated plantlets after 25 d. The shoot lengths of the regenerated plantlets obtained from the in situ regeneration culture were longer than those from a suspension culture. When support cubes with 3-5 regenerated plantlets were transferred from the flask to 1 4 MS solid medium supplemented with 10 g/l sorbitol and 5 g/l sucrose, the regenerated plantlets developed quickly into plants with a length above 10 cm after 10 d.
16232985	The effects of protease-treated liquefied rice on the production of saccharifying enzyme by immobilized fungal mycelia were investigated. The production of saccharifying enzyme by immobilized fungal mycelia was stimulated by the protease-treated liquefied rice. The origin of the effector was identified as a hydrolyzate of glutelin, a major rice protein. Moreover, the effector was purified by gel permeation chromatography and reversed-phase HPLC. The molecular weight of the purified effector was around 400-500 Da and it was composed of a few amino acids. These results indicate that the oligopeptide derived from the glutelin hydrolyzate regulates the production of saccharifying enzyme by immobilized fungal mycelia. Furthermore, this oligopeptide stimulated the production of raw starch-digesting glucoamylase by immobilized fungal mycelia but did not stimulate the production of other proteins.
16232998	The effect of light irradiation on the growth and regeneration of embryogenic rice calli was investigated. Rice calli grew slightly better in the light than in the dark during the growth stage. When calli subcultured under light irradiation were transferred into a liquid regeneration culture system, the number of plantlets with shoots regenerated from calli subcultured in the light was higher than in the case of those subcultured in the dark, whereas there was no obvious difference between the light and dark subcultures when a solid medium was used for the regeneration. The number of regenerated plantlets increased with increasing light intensity up to 2000 lx, but remained the same when the light intensity was raised further. The maximum number of regenerated plantlets was obtained under a photoperiod of 16 h/d. About 8800 plantlets per liter-medium were regenerated from light-cultured calli, which is 1.5 times more than the number regenerated from calli grown in the conventional dark culture.
16233076	A yeast strain producing high levels of phytase was isolated from soil and identified as Candida krusei. The phytase was located on the yeast cell wall and was a glucanase-extractable protein. The phytase production was controlled by the phosphate concentration in the medium used. The maximum production of phytase occurred in a medium containing 0.5 mg of phosphorus per 100 ml, and most of the cells were ellipsoid-shaped and did not exhibit budding. Increasing the concentration of phosphorus in the medium to more than 5 mg of phosphorus per 100 ml caused inhibition of phytase production and 90% of the cells exhibited budding. On the other hand, transferring cells grown in the high-phosphate medium into a phosphate-free one derepressed the phytase production. For example, transferring cells grown in 2 mg of phosphorus per 100 ml into the phosphate-free medium, enhanced the total phytase activity up to 5.5-fold that in the medium containing 0.5 mg of phosphorus per 100 ml. The phytase showed two optimum pHs of 2.5 and 5.5, an optimum temperature of 40 degrees C and the K(m) value for Na-phytate was 0.03 mM. Using in vitro experiments that simulated the conditions of the digestive tract, 50-80% phosphorus was liberated from different plant samples (wheat bran, rice bran and feeds) by the strain.
16233157	The production of cellulose- (CEL), xylan- (XYL), and pectin-degrading enzymes (PEC) by a koji mold, Aspergillus oryzae, was studied, and their contributions to the maceration of the rice endosperm cell wall were investigated with regard to the utilization of available rice in the sake mash. The sake koji mold showed higher CEL and XYL productivities, whereas the miso and soy sauce koji molds showed higher PEC productivity. Statistical analyses indicated that CEL and XYL contribute predominantly and synergistically to the maceration of the rice endosperm cell wall. A. oryzae produced at least three kinds of CEL (Cel-1, 2, 3) and two kinds of XYL (Xyl-1, 2) when cultured in a wheat bran medium. In the solid-state culture, the production of Cel-3 and Xyl-2 was markedly stimulated by decreasing the moisture content of the solid substrate, although the production levels of Cel-1 and Xyl-1 were almost the same. These data suggest that the production of Cel-3 and Xyl-2 is strongly influenced by culture conditions, and that water activity is one of the dominant factors in the regulation of their production.
16233172	Lactobacillus brevis IFO-12005 showed good growth in rice shochu distillery lees (kome shochu kasu). Almost all of the free glutamic acid (10.50 mM) in shochu kasu was converted to gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) within 2 d of stationary culture at 30 degrees C. The amount of GABA in the kome shochu kasu medium finally reached 10.18 mM. After centrifugation of the broth culture, the supernatant fraction was treated with a flocculation agent to form a clear solution, then passed through a column containing a synthetic adsorbents, SP-207 to remove the yellow pigment and flavors which are unnecessary from a sensory perspective. An economical and simple production process for GABA was established.
16233203	In our previous study, we proposed a new alcoholic beverage called nuka-sake, which is made from uncooked rice polish without any enzyme source such as koji. In nuka-sake brewing, the uncooked rice polish serves not only as the fermentation material but also as the enzyme source. In the present study, the results of both laboratory-scale nuka-sake brewing runs with various grades of rice polish and analysis of amylolitic enzyme distribution in rice polish suggested that alpha-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.20) is a key enzyme of parallel fermentation in nuka-sake brewing. Miglitol, a specific inhibitor of alpha-glucosidase, strongly inhibited glucose production from rice polish. To obtain further evidence regarding the contribution of alpha-glucosidase, this enzyme was purified from rice grain kernels (Yamadanishiki cultivar) and supplied for both rice polish saccharification and nuka-sake brewing. The purified alpha-glucosidase promoted both glucose production from rice polish and alcohol fermentation in nuka-sake brewing. Based on these results, it was considered that the alpha-glucosidase contained in rice polish plays an important role in glucose production. This role may be a rate-limiting factor for parallel fermentation in nuka-sake brewing. Moreover, oligosaccarides accumulated during the saccharification of uncooked rice polish, implying the contribution of not only alpha-glucosidase but also alpha-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1). Through this result, it can be speculated that the starch contained in rice polish will be decomposed to glucose as a result of the action of alpha-glucosidase and alpha-amylase contained in rice polish.
16233250	The synthesis of acid protease in rice-koji is important for sake brewing. Northern blot analysis was carried out to study the transcriptional regulation of acid protease-encoding gene (pepA in Aspergillus orytae. The pepA gene was not expressed in submerged culture, while it was expressed when cultured on steamed rice. Additionally, the culture at high temperature (>38 degrees C) caused a marked decrease in transcription level of pepA, although the alpha-amylase (amyB) and actin genes were expressed regardless of the temperature. To examine whether the pepA promoter controlled the temperature-dependent expression, the promoter regions of pepA and amyB were introduced into a vector containing the GUS reporter gene (uidA gene). Northern blot analysis showed that the elevation of culture temperature caused the loss of uidA expression in the pepA promoter-uidA transformant but not in the amyB promoter-uidA transformant. These results suggest that its promoter controlled the temperature-dependent expression of pepA.
16233334	Methylamine (MA), an ammonia analogue, has been used to investigate ammonia uptake. This compound competes with ammonia to be taken up and also inhibits the nitrate assimilation pathway. However, the effect of MA on plant growth is unknown. In this paper, we describe the responses of the rice plant to MA. The growth of MA-treated plants was inhibited in the aerial parts and stimulated in the roots. MA-treatment also induced a decrease of starch and hexose in shoots whereas hexose, sucrose and starch contents are increased in MA-treated roots. These results indicate that MA can change the mass allocation of biomass to the roots. The properties of MA suggest that a plant alters its growth via a change in the distribution of carbohydrate in resposes to the nitrogen status.
16233354	Plants not only provide food to humans and animals, but also provide a large number of non-food products of industrial and chemical importance. Moreover, they have the ability to purify the air, soil and water on the earth. Various trials to genetically improve the potential of plants are actively in progress. Salt-tolerance would be an especially important ability to bestow upon plants for agricultural and industrial purposes, because high salinity conditions are ubiquitous on earth and represent major barriers to growth. Enhancement of resistance against both hyper-osmotic stress and Na+ toxity is necessary for successful molecular breeding of salt tolerant plants. Introduction of genes for osmolyte bio-synthesis is useful to increase hyperosmotic tolerance of plant cells. It is introduced in this review that genetically engineered ectoine synthesis results in increased hyperosmotic tolerance of tobacco cells. High concentrations of Na+ reduce cellular activity by interfering with vital Na+-sensitive enzymes and by affecting K+ transport. Understanding the regulation of K+ and Na+ homeostasis is thus indispensable for enhancement of plant Na+ tolerance. My research group is investigating the Na+ efflux activity of the yeast Na+-ATPase (Ena1) when installed in the plasma membrane of plant cells, and the rice K+-Na+ co-transporters (HKT) that contribute to the regulation of K+ and Na+ uptake in root cells.
16233368	The result of sensory evaluation of sake showed that acetic acid imparted desirable acidity when the proportion of acetic acid to lactic acid was about 1/3, even if the concentration of acetic acid was 0.75 g/l. Glycerol balanced the acidity and brought about a harmony between sweetness and acidity in sake. A high-acetate producing sake yeast (MHA-3) was isolated from mutants having low NADH dehydrogenase (NDE) activity. MHA-3 produced 15 times more acetate and 5 times more lactate than the parental strain Kyokai no. 901 (K-901) in a small-scale sake brewing test using 10 kg of rice. In addition, the concentrations of glycerol in sake brewed with MHA-3 were approximately 1.5-fold higher than in that brewed with K-901. The proportion of acetic acid to lactic acid was about 1/3 in sake fermented with MHA-3 and it exhibited a good balance between sweetness and acidity. The activities of glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALD) in MHA-3 were 1.4-fold and 3.1-fold, respectively, higher than those in K-901 while the activity of NDE was 40% that of K-901. MHA-3 accumulated higher amounts of acetate and glycerol than K-901 in static YNB10 medium. The concentrations of acetic acid produced, depending on the quantity of yeast cells added, increased in conjunction with increases in glycerol produced. We suggest that NDE might be linked with GPD and that the nde mutants, which can be used in sake brewing, produced higher amounts of acetate and glycerol.
16233375	Alpha-glucosidase, a key enzyme for nuka-sake brewing, was purified from Oryza sativa cv. Yamadanishiki, which is widely used for sake brewing. The molecular weight of the purified enzyme was 95 kDa. The optimum pH and temperature were 4.5 and 55 degrees C, respectively. The substrate specificity differed from that of Oryza sativa cv. Shinsetsu, which is a variety of rice consumed as a cereal. The extraction of alpha-glucosidase from the rice was stimulated by lactic acid, which suggests that lactic acid plays an important role not only in preventing bacterial contamination, but also in stimulating the parallel fermentation that occurs in nuka-sake brewing.
16233438	Sake mash was prepared using rice with polishing ratios of 70%, 80%, 90% and 98%. At a polishing ratio of 70%, the highest amounts of ethyl caproate were produced in sake mash, and supplementation of inositol caused a decrease in ethyl caproate production. However, at a polishing ratio of over 90%, supplementation of inositol had no effect on ethyl caproate production. These results suggest that the use of rice with a polishing ratio of 70% results in increased ethyl caproate content in sake when limiting the inositol available to yeast. The reduction in ethyl caproate production following inositol addition was due to the decrease in its enzymatic substrate caproic acid, because the concentrations of middle chain fatty acids (MCFA), caproic acid, caprylic acid and capric acid in sake were lowered by inositol. A disruptant of the OPI1 gene, an inositol/choline-mediated negative regulatory gene, produced higher amounts of MCFA than the control strain both in the static culture and in sake mash when a sufficient amount of inositol was supplemented. Therefore, the enhancement of MCFA biosynthesis by inositol limitation was thought to be caused not by a posttranscriptional event, but predominantly by transcriptional enhancement of fatty acid biosynthetic genes. The overexpression of FAS1 considerably stimulated MCFA formation while that of ASC2, ACC1 and FAS2 genes was not effective. Co-overexpression of FAS1 and FAS2 resulted in a maximal stimulation of MCFA formation and substantially abolished the inhibitory effect of inositol on MCFA formation. These results suggest that the repression of FAS1 gene expression by inositol results in the decrease in MCFA formation. Therefore, it is presumed that the removal of inositol by polishing the rice used in sake brewing, increases the production of ethyl esters of MCFA, since high-level production of MCFA is achieved by the derepression of FAS1 transcription.
16233456	Recent papers concerning the application of microbial genes to recalcitrant biomass utilization and environmental conservation are reviewed. Microbial genes have been integrated and expressed in plants and microorganisms. When cellulose-degrading enzyme genes are expressed in rice plants, the transgenic plants exhibit swollen cell walls which increases the digestibility of rice straw in the rumen. When genes encoding aromatic compound-degrading enzymes are expressed in plants, it is expected that aromatic compounds contaminating soil would be degraded during the growth of the transgenic plants. The former transgenic plants are utilized as feed and the latter for phytoremediation. Dockerin and cohesin interactions occurring in the cellulase complex, cellulosome, are applied to the construction of artificial enzyme complexes and protein purification by expressing the genes in transformed bacteria and/or silkworms, respectively. In the case of the forced expression of bacterial genes encoding chitinase and/or hydrogenase in the wild-type bacteria, chitin degradation and hydrogen gas production in the transformed bacteria occur at much higher rates than in the wild type.
16233541	Sake mash was prepared using rice with polishing ratios of 70%, 80%, 90% and 98%. At a polishing ratio of 70%, the highest isoamyl acetate/isoamyl alcohol (E/A) ratio in sake was obtained, and inositol addition caused a decrease in E/A ratio. In several strains tested, inositol addition to the mash decreased isoamyl acetate content and E/A ratio in sake Inositol addition significantly decreased alcohol acetyltransferase (AATase) activity which is responsible for the synthesis of acetate esters from alcohols and acetyl coenzyme A. The results of Northern blot analysis and disruption of the OPII gene, an inositol/choline-mediated negative regulatory gene, showed that the decrease in AATase activity following inositol addition is not due to a transcriptional event. Inositol addition increased phosphatidylinositol (PI) content 3-fold in sake mash yeast cells, while it had no effect on phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidyl-serine (PS) contents. When cell-free extracts prepared from sake mash yeast cells were treated with chloroform or phospholipase C to remove PI, no difference in AATase activity in sake mash between with (Ino+) and without (Ino-) inositol addition was observed. PI prepared from sake mash yeast cells inhibited AATase activity more strongly than PC and PE. Furthermore, when PI, PC, PE and PS at a ratio (1.0:1.28:0.70:0.09) corresponding to the phospholipid composition of Ino+ sake mash yeast cells were added to a reaction mixture, the AATase activity decreased to 26-55% that of yeast cells from the Ino- mash with a phospholipid composition of 0.34:1.28:0.7:0.09. Approximately all of the PI was recovered in the ammonium sulfate precipitate of the cell-free extract, while only half of the PC and PE was recovered. The acidic phospholipid, phosphatidylglycerol, as well as PI inhibited AATase activity more strongly than PC, despite its having the same fatty acid composition as PC. These results suggest that the strong inhibition of AATase activity by PI is due to its high adsorptive capacity for the AATase protein. Therefore, rice polishing can remove inositol from rice leading to an increase in AATase activity, and resulting in a high E/A ratio in sake.
16233557	To compare the distribution of storage proteins in low-glutelin rice seed with that in other cultivars having normal protein compositions, immunofluorescence labeling with specific antibodies was applied to visualize the distribution of storage proteins in endosperm tissues. The endosperm tissues from five cultivars were reacted with anti-prolamin and anti-glutelin antibodies, and then observed by light microscopy and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). In low-glutelin rice, using microscopic analysis, a large proportion of storage proteins was observed in the endosperm tissue of 70% polished rice. To determine the localization of two types of protein bodies in endosperm tissues, images of the distribution of the type I protein body (PB-I) and the type II protein body (PB-II) were obtained by CLSM. The CLSM images showed that, in low-glutelin rice, prolamin which accumulates in PB-I remains in the center of 70% polished rice grains despite the elimination of 30% of the outer layer of brown rice grains. However, the other cultivars mostly contained glutelin which accumulates in PB-II and is distributed throughout the endosperm tissues. This shows that low-glutelin rice differs from the other cultivars not only in the major storage protein composition but also in the distribution of storage proteins in endosperm tissues.
16233584	The goal of this study was to develop a high value Korean traditional rice wine possessing the pharmaceutical functionality of Ganoderma lucidum. The effects of the fruiting body of G. lucidum on the alcohol fermentation of Korean traditional rice wine, yakju, were investigated. Optimal fermentation conditions for the preparation of G. lucidum-yakju consisted of the koji added at 15% and a fermentation period of 15 d at 25 degrees C. The effects of the amount of G. lucidum added on the acceptability and functionality of G. lucidum-yakju were investigated. G. lucidum GL-1 yakju brewed by adding 0.1% G. lucidum into the mash showed the best acceptability and its angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory activity and SOD-like activity were 63% and 42%, respectively, both of which are higher than those of yakju. The high ACE inhibitory activity of G. lucidum GL-1 yakju was found to result from ganoderic acid K in G. lucidum on the basis of physical and spectral data. However, the fibrinolytic activity and antioxidant activity of G. lucidum GL-1 yakju were very low, while tyrosinase inhibitory activity was not determined. From these results, G. lucidum GL-1 yakju may become a new functional Korean traditional rice wine with antihypertensive properties.
16233650	We have cloned a novel tyrosinase-encoding gene (melB) specifically expressed in solid-state culture of Aspergillus oryzae. A tyrosinase-encoding gene (melO) from A. oryzae was already cloned and the protein structures of its catalytic and copper binding domains were investigated. However, our recent results revealed that the melO gene was highly expressed in submerged culture but not in solid-state culture. Because tyrosinase activity was also detected in solid-state culture, we assumed that another tyrosinase gene other than melO is expressed in solid-state culture. Another tyrosinase gene was screened using the expressed sequence tag (EST) library. One redundant cDNA clone homologous with the tyrosinase gene was found in the collection of wheat bran culture. Northern blot analysis revealed that the gene corresponding to the cDNA clone was specifically expressed in solid-state culture (koji making), but not in submerged culture. Molecular cloning showed that the gene carried six exons interrupted by five introns and had an open reading frame encoding 616 amino acid residues. This gene was designated as melB. The deduced amino acid sequence of the gene had weak homology (24%-33%) with MelO and other fungal tyrosinases but the sequences of the copper binding domains were highly conserved. When the melB gene was expressed under the control of the glaB promoter in solid-state culture, tyrosinase activity was markedly enhanced and the culture mass was browned with the melanization by MelB tyrosinase. These results indicated that the melB gene encodes a novel tyrosinase associated with melanization in solid-state culture.
16233652	Sake yeasts take up gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) derived from rice-koji in the primary stage of sake brewing. The GABA content in sake brewed with the UGA1 disruptant, which lacked GABA transaminase, was higher than that brewed with the wild-type strain K701. The UGA1 disruptant derived from sake yeast could not grow on a medium with GABA as the sole nitrogen source. We have isolated the sake yeast mutants of K701 that were unable to grow on a medium containing GABA as the sole nitrogen source. The growth defect of GAB7-1 and GAB7-2 mutants on GABA plates was complemented by UGA1, which encodes GABA transaminase, and UGA2, which encodes succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH), respectively. DNA sequence analysis revealed that GAB7-1 had a homozygous nonsense mutation in UGA1 and GAB7-2 had a heterozygous mutation (G247D) in UGA2. The GABA transaminase activity of GAB7-1 and the SSADH activity of GAB7-2 were markedly lower than those of K701. These GAB mutants displayed a higher intracellular GABA content. The GABA contents in sake brewed with the mutants GAB7-1 and GAB7-2 were 2.0 and 2.1 times higher, respectively, than that brewed with the wild-type strain K701. These results suggest that the reduced function of the GABA utilization pathway increases the GABA content in sake.
16233658	The alcohol dehydrogenase gene (NtADH) was previously isolated from tobacco BY2 suspension cultured cell. Expression of this gene was dramatically increased only during the early stationary phase, and the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) was hypothesized to be involved in the stimulatory effect at the post-transcriptional level. In this paper, we investigated whether the NtADH 5'-UTR possesses the ability to positively enhance gene expression at the translational level. For easily estimating translational efficiency, we used beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene as a reporter and tobacco BY2 cell, Arabidopsis thaliana T87 cell, and rice Oryza sativa suspension cultured cells as host cells in a transient assay system. Compared with the control plasmid pBI221, insertion of the NtADH 5'-UTR enhanced GUS expression levels about 30- to 100-fold and 30- to 60-fold in transiently transformed BY2 and T87 cells, respectively. However, in transiently transformed O. sativa cells, expression was barely enhanced. In comparison with the 5'-UTR of tobacco mosaic virus (Omega sequence), a known translational enhancer, the NtADH 5'-UTR enhanced translation to a similar level. Meanwhile, the translational efficiency was affected by the sequence context around the AUG initiation codon at the translational initiation step. Moreover, this NtADH 5'-UTR also worked in stable tobacco transformants. Therefore, it is expected that this 5'-UTR will serve as a powerful tool for enhancing foreign gene expression.
16233688	The fermentation product of herbs by lactic acid bacteria (FHL) was assayed for antifungal activities against Rosellinia necatrix, Helicobasidium mompa, Fusarium oxysporum, Pythium graminicola and Pyricularia oryzae. FHL completely inhibited the growth of R. necatrix, H. mompa, P. graminicola and P. oryzae, and reduced the growth of F. oxysporum by 35%. When the seeds of Medicago sativa L. (alfalfa), Asparagus officinalis L. (asparagus), Brassica campestris L. (komatsuna), Oryza sativa L. (rice), Spinacia oleracea L. (spinach), Festuca arundinacea Schreb. (tall fescue), and Lycopersicum esculentum Mill. (tomato) were put on plates containing 0.69 mg/ml FHL, their germination rates did not decrease. The root elongation of A. officinalis, B. campestris, O. sativa, and L. esculentum seedlings was suppressed on plates containing 6.92 mg/ml FHL, but the root elongation of M. sativa was not suppressed on the 6.92 mg/ml FHL plate. When FHL was diluted to less than 1.73 mg/ml, the diluted FHL solution did not suppress the germination of B. campestris seeds, but it suppressed the root elongation of B. campestris seedlings. An FHL concentration higher than 0.35 mg/ml hastened the growth of seedlings of B. campestris in the presence of a chemical fertilizer but delayed the growth of these seedlings in the absence of the chemical fertilizer, suggesting that inorganic elements could affect the efficiency of FHL.
16233751	The PHT1 promoter::GUS fusion gene was constructed and introduced into Arabidopsis and rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Strong beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity was detected in roots and showed phosphate starvation induction both in Arabidopsis and rice. In contrast, GUS activity in aerial tissues such as those of the leaf and stem was low. In situ GUS staining of root tissue indicated that PHT1 was expressed in root hairs and the outer layer of the main roots, but not in root tips. The PHT1 promoter has a desirable character for biotechnological transgene expression in monocot rice plants.
16233822	The hydrogen-bonding property of water--ethanol in Japanese sake, a kind of brewage, was examined on the basis of both (1)H NMR chemical shifts of the OH of water--ethanol and the Raman OH stretching spectra. In 20% (v/v) EtOH-H(2)O solution, amino acids as well as organic acids caused low-field chemical shifts, i.e., the development of a hydrogen-bonding structure. Additional functional groups, apart from the essential amino- and carboxyl groups, in amino acids caused differences in their effects. The low-field chemical shifts caused by solutes were demonstrated under constant pH conditions maintained by sodium hydrogen citrate. Using both the measurement of (1)H NMR chemical shifts and Raman OH stretching spectra, the strength of the hydrogen bond of water--ethanol in Japanese sake products was found to be correlated with the total concentration of organic acids and amino acids. Glucose or saccharides should not have a strengthening effect on the hydrogen bond of water--ethanol. The effects of the main inorganic ions and amines were also discussed. It was concluded that chemical components originating from the starting material, rice, or products produced by microorganisms during the ethanol fermentation affect the hydrogen-bonding structure in Japanese sake.
16233880	Enzymatic starch granule hydrolysis is one of the most important reactions in many industrial processes. In this work, we investigated the capacity of SdFFF to monitor the native rice starch amylolysis. In order to determine if fractogram changes observed were correlated to granule biophysical modifications which occurred during amylolysis, SdFFF separation was associated with particle size distribution analysis. The results showed that SdFFF is an effective tool to monitor amylolysis of native rice starch. SdFFF analysis was a rapid (less than 10 min), simple and specific method to follow biophysical modifications of starch granules. These results suggested many different applications such as testing series of enzymes and starches. By using sub-population sorting, SdFFF could be also used to better understand starch hydrolysis mechanisms or starch granule structure.
16234324	Errors are prevalent in cDNA sequences but the extent to which sequence collections differ in frequencies and types of errors has not been investigated systematically. cDNA quality control, or cQC, was developed to evaluate the quality of cDNA sequence collections and to revise those sequences that differ from a higher quality genomic sequence. After removing rRNA, vector, bacterial insertion sequence and chimeric cDNA contaminants, small-scale nucleotide discrepancies were found in 51% of cDNA sequences from one Arabidopsis cDNA collection, 89% from a second Arabidopsis collection and 75% from a rice collection. These errors created premature termination codons in 4 and 42% of cDNA sequences in the respective Arabidopsis collections and in 7% of the rice cDNA sequences.
16235049	The "BF14/16xHF2/7" mapping population of meadow fescue (Festuca pratensis Huds.) was characterised for number of panicles produced by non-vernalised plants in the field, vernalisation requirement (number of weeks at 6 degrees C and 8 h photoperiod), as well as days to heading, number of panicles and proportion of shoots heading after a 12 weeks vernalisation treatment. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were identified and compared to QTLs and genes related to the induction of flowering in cereals and grasses. A region on chromosome 1F affected days to heading and the proportion of shoots heading. Chromosome 4F appeared to have several genes with a strong effect on vernalisation requirement. The strongest effects were located in the proximal end of 4F and may correspond to the earliness per se (eps) QTL eps6L.2 in barley and a heading time QTL in perennial ryegrass. A part of the meadow fescue orthologue of VRN1 was sequenced and mapped to another region of 4F that also had a strong effect on vernalisation requirement. The proximal end of chromosome 5F had QTLs for days to heading and proportion of heading shoots. Syntenic regions in wheat and barley contain eps-loci. A QTL for number of panicles in the field and a QTL for proportion of heading shoots were present on chromosome 6. A region on 7F affected the variation in number of panicles among plants without a vernalisation requirement, and is syntenic to regions in perennial ryegrass, barley and rice containing orthologues of Arabidopsis thaliana CO.
16236151	Polyploidy events have played an important role in the evolution of angiosperm genomes. Here, we demonstrate how genomic histories can increase phylogenetic resolution in a gene family, specifically the expansin superfamily of cell wall proteins. There are 36 expansins in Arabidopsis and 58 in rice. Traditional sequence-based phylogenetic trees yield poor resolution below the family level. To improve upon these analyses, we searched for gene colinearity (microsynteny) between Arabidopsis and rice genomic segments containing expansin genes. Multiple rounds of genome duplication and extensive gene loss have obscured synteny. However, by simultaneously aligning groups of up to 10 potentially orthologous segments from the two species, we traced the history of 49 out of 63 expansin-containing segments back to the ancestor of monocots and eudicots. Our results indicate that this ancestor had 15-17 expansin genes, each ancestral to an extant clade. Some clades have strikingly different growth patterns in the rice and Arabidopsis lineages, with more than half of all rice expansins arising from two ancestral genes. Segmental duplications, most of them part of polyploidy events, account for 12 out of 21 new expansin genes in Arabidopsis and 16 out of 44 in rice. Tandem duplications explain most of the rest. We were also able to estimate a minimum of 28 gene deaths in the Arabidopsis lineage and nine in rice. This analysis greatly clarifies expansin evolution since the last common ancestor of monocots and eudicots and the method should be broadly applicable to many other gene families.
16236157	Storage oil is a major constituent in the cereal aleurone layer. The aim of this study was to investigate how gibberellin (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) regulate conversion of oil to sugar in barley aleurone. The activity of the glyoxylate cycle enzyme isocitrate lyase (ICL) was surveyed in eight barley cultivars. Surprisingly, some cultivars do not require GA for the induction of ICL (e.g. Himalaya), whereas some do (e.g. Golden Promise). Furthermore, in Golden Promise, GA also stimulates triacylglycerol breakdown and enhances the net flux of carbon from acetate to sugar. In contrast, ABA strongly represses ICL activity and the flux of carbon from oil to sugar in both Golden Promise and Himalaya. Biolistics using a promoter reporter showed that GA and ABA regulate ICL at the level of transcription. Studies using barley and rice mutants and pharmacological agents show that GA-dependent induction of ICL activity is mediated by SLENDER1 and requires cGMP, but does not involve the transcription factor GAMYB. Gibberellin and ABA therefore act antagonistically to regulate gluconeogenesis in the aleurone layer as well as controlling the production and secretion of hydrolases into the starchy endosperm. We suggest that the variation between different barley cultivars might be a result of selective breeding to alter seed dormancy.
16236172	The sequencing and analysis of ESTs is for now the only practical approach for large-scale gene discovery and annotation in conifers because their very large genomes are unlikely to be sequenced in the near future. Our objective was to produce extensive collections of ESTs and cDNA clones to support manufacture of cDNA microarrays and gene discovery in white spruce (Picea glauca [Moench] Voss). We produced 16 cDNA libraries from different tissues and a variety of treatments, and partially sequenced 50,000 cDNA clones. High quality 3' and 5' reads were assembled into 16,578 consensus sequences, 45% of which represented full length inserts. Consensus sequences derived from 5' and 3' reads of the same cDNA clone were linked to define 14,471 transcripts. A large proportion (84%) of the spruce sequences matched a pine sequence, but only 68% of the spruce transcripts had homologs in Arabidopsis or rice. Nearly all the sequences that matched the Populus trichocarpa genome (the only sequenced tree genome) also matched rice or Arabidopsis genomes. We used several sequence similarity search approaches for assignment of putative functions, including blast searches against general and specialized databases (transcription factors, cell wall related proteins), Gene Ontology term assignation and Hidden Markov Model searches against PFAM protein families and domains. In total, 70% of the spruce transcripts displayed matches to proteins of known or unknown function in the Uniref100 database (blastx e-value < 1e-10). We identified multigenic families that appeared larger in spruce than in the Arabidopsis or rice genomes. Detailed analysis of translationally controlled tumour proteins and S-adenosylmethionine synthetase families confirmed a twofold size difference. Sequences and annotations were organized in a dedicated database, SpruceDB. Several search tools were developed to mine the data either based on their occurrence in the cDNA libraries or on functional annotations. This report illustrates specific approaches for large-scale gene discovery and annotation in an organism that is very distantly related to any of the fully sequenced genomes. The ArboreaSet sequences and cDNA clones represent a valuable resource for investigations ranging from plant comparative genomics to applied conifer genetics.
16236190	The aims of the study were to provide information that will contribute to conceptualising what is called "dietary Westernisation", and to provide an example of measuring it on an individual level. Food consumption frequency and demographic data on adults in Mauritius were examined in 1988, 1992 and 1998. In 1992, a 24-hour recall was also included. The cross-sectional samples consisted of 1115 (age 25-74 years) Mauritians in 1987/88, 1917 (age 30-74 years) in 1992 and 2239 (age 20-74 years) in 1998. Principal components analysis was carried out on daily consumption frequencies of 10 indicator foods (white rice, white bakery bread, pulses, processed meat, poultry, fresh/frozen fish, butter, margarine, whole milk and skimmed/low-fat milk). Correlations between dietary patterns and selected food consumption frequencies were examined in each survey year. Four dietary patterns were identified as being related to dietary Westernisation. The Traditional dietary pattern was characterised by higher consumption frequencies of Indian breads, salted/smoked fish and sugar-sweetened tea. The Western dietary pattern was characterised by higher consumption frequencies of cakes/pastries, meat and many Western fast foods like burgers, but, surprisingly, also by brown bread, breakfast cereals and salad. The Bread/butter dietary pattern predominantly described more frequent consumption of bread compared with rice. The Margarine/milk dietary pattern was inconsistently related with staple foods. Younger, educated and wealthier Mauritians appeared to adopt Western dietary patterns earlier. This study suggests that relatively few indicator foods are needed for measuring dietary Westernisation. Dietary Westernisation in a non-Western country may also include shifts towards voluntary consumption of healthier foods.
16237597	In Asembagus (East Java, Indonesia) irrigation water is contaminated with effluent from the hyperacid Ijen Crater Lake resulting in a low pH and high levels of various elements. As a first step towards a risk assessment, locally produced food items (rice, maize, cassava leaf, cassava root, peanuts) were collected and concentrations of As, B, Ca, Cd, Co, Cu, Fe, Mg, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pb, V, Zn were compared to samples from a reference area and with literature values. Further, concentrations in rice were compared to total soil concentrations in paddy fields. Compared to the reference area, food items produced in the contaminated area had increased levels of Cd, Co, Ni and Mn in particular, while levels of Mo were lower. In contrast, total soil concentrations of Cd and Mn in particular have decreased whereas especially Mo was increased. In combination with the observed soil acidification, it is likely that the bioavailable concentration of most elements in the contaminated soil is higher (except for Mo) due to an increased weathering rate and/or input via the contaminated irrigation water. In terms of human health, concentrations in foods were generally within normal literature values. However, it was observed that essential elements (in particular Fe) known for their inhibitory effects on e.g. Cd and Mn toxicity did not accumulate in crops whereas Cd and Mn did.
16237601	In 2000, 63 (polished) white rice samples were collected in eight administrative areas all over South Korea and analyzed for 16 elements by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES). Potassium had the highest content, next to Mg, Ca, Si, Zn, Na, Al and Fe. Most of the samples contained worldwide average concentrations of essential and trace elements in rice grains reported by various researches. For inter-area differences in those elements in the rice, the statistical analysis showed no significant differences (p > 0.05) among the eight administrative areas, suggesting that inter-area differences were not substantial in most cases. Thus, the present data can be used as national background levels of elements in rice produced in South Korea. Using the published data on daily consumption of rice in South Korea, it was possible to estimate the daily intake of As, Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn via rice. The results showed that a regular consumption of rice produced in Korea plays an important role in accumulation of essential and trace elements in Korean, especially for farm-households consuming relatively large amounts of rice.
16237603	In Asembagus (East Java, Indonesia), surface water is contaminated with effluent from the hyperacid Ijen Crater Lake. In a previous study, we reported that food crops irrigated with this water had increased concentrations of various elements. Here, we present a total diet study for adults and 6-year-old children to determine if the mean daily intake of a broad range of elements is safe and adequate. For children, the intake of B, Mg, Mn and V is high with Hazard Quotients (HQ) of 1.1 (B), 1.4 (Mn) and 1.4 (V), respectively (no TDI is available for Mg). For Mn, the daily intake is high due to the consumption of locally produced rice. Drinking water is the main source of B, Mg and V. For adults, the intake of Mg, Mn and V is also high but HQ values are < or =0.7. For both children and adults, the intake of Ca, Zn and particularly Fe is below the RNI (Fe intake is 90% below the RNI for women). It is concluded the mean intake of elements is unbalanced and Fe deficiency is probably the most serious health problem. Toxic effects cannot be fully excluded since deficiency of essential elements such as Ca, Fe and Zn can increase the absorption and retention of various elements.
16237606	Prolonged consumption of rice containing elevated cadmium (Cd) levels is a significant health issue particularly in subsistence communities that are dependent on rice produced on-farm. This situation is further exacerbated in areas of known non-ferrous mineralization adjacent to rice-based agricultural systems where the opportunity for contamination of rice and its eventual entry into the food chain is high. In the current study, an assessment of the degree of soil Cd and Zn contamination and associated rice grain Cd contamination downstream of an actively mined zone of Zn mineralization in western Thailand was undertaken. Total soil Cd and Zn concentrations in the rice-based agricultural system investigated ranged from 0.5 to 284 mg kg(-1) and 100 to 8036 mg kg(-1), respectively. Further, the results indicate that the contamination is associated with suspended sediment transported to fields via the irrigation supply. Consequently, the spatial distribution of Cd and Zn is directly related to a field's proximity to primary outlets from in-field irrigation channels and inter-field irrigation flows with 60-100% of the Cd and Zn loading associated with the first three fields in irrigation sequence. Rice grain Cd concentrations in the 524 fields sampled, ranged from 0.05 to 7.7 mg kg(-1). Over 90% of the rice grain samples collected contained Cd at concentrations exceeding the Codex Committee on Food Additives and Contaminants (CCFAC) draft Maximum Permissible Level for rice grain of 0.2 mg Cd kg(-1). In addition, as a function of demographic group, estimated Weekly Intake (WI) values ranged from 20 to 82 mug Cd per kg Body. This poses a significant public health risk to local communities. The results of this study suggest that an irrigation sequence-based field classification technique in combination with strategic soil and rice grain sampling and the estimation of WI values via rice intake alone may be a useful decision support tool to rapidly evaluate potential public health risks in irrigated rice-based agricultural systems receiving Cd contaminated irrigation water. In addition, the proposed technique will facilitate the cost effective strategic targeting of detailed epidemiological studies thus focusing resources to specific 'high risk' areas.
16240104	Brown planthopper (BPH) is a destructive insect pest of rice in Asia. Identification and the incorporation of new BPH resistance genes into modern rice cultivars are important breeding strategies to control the damage caused by new biotypes of BPH. In this study, a major resistance gene, Bph18(t), has been identified in an introgression line (IR65482-7-216-1-2) that has inherited the gene from the wild species Oryza australiensis. Genetic analysis revealed the dominant nature of the Bph18(t) gene and identified it as non-allelic to another gene, Bph10 that was earlier introgressed from O. australiensis. After linkage analysis using MapMaker followed by single-locus ANOVA on quantitatively expressed resistance levels of the progenies from an F2 mapping population identified with marker allele types, the Bph18(t) gene was initially located on the subterminal region of the long arm of chromosome 12 flanked by the SSR marker RM463 and the STS marker S15552. The corresponding physical region was identified in the Nipponbare genome pseudomolecule 3 through electronic chromosome landing (e-landing), in which 15 BAC clones covered 1.612 Mb. Eleven DNA markers tagging the BAC clones were used to construct a high-resolution genetic map of the target region. The Bph18(t) locus was further localized within a 0.843-Mb physical interval that includes three BAC clones between the markers R10289S and RM6869 by means of single-locus ANOVA of resistance levels of mapping population and marker-gene association analysis on 86 susceptible F2 progenies based on six time-point phenotyping. Using gene annotation information of TIGR, a putative resistance gene was identified in the BAC clone OSJNBa0028L05 and the sequence information was used to generate STS marker 7312.T4A. The marker allele of 1,078 bp completely co-segregated with the BPH resistance phenotype. STS marker 7312.T4A was validated using BC2F2 progenies derived from two temperate japonica backgrounds. Some 97 resistant BC2F2 individuals out of 433 screened completely co-segregated with the resistance-specific marker allele (1,078 bp) in either homozygous or heterozygous state. This further confirmed a major gene-controlled resistance to the BPH biotype of Korea. Identification of Bph18(t) enlarges the BPH resistance gene pool to help develop improved rice cultivars, and the PCR marker (7312.T4A) for the Bph18(t) gene should be readily applicable for marker-assisted selection (MAS).
16240106	The alpha-subunit of the casein protein kinase CK2 has been implicated in both light-regulated and circadian rhythm-controlled plant gene expression, including control of the flowering time. Two putative CK2alpha genes of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) have been obtained from a cDNA library constructed with mRNA isolated from cold-acclimated crown tissue. The genomic organisation of the two genes was determined by Southern hybridisation analysis. Primer designs to the Lpck2a-1 and Lpck2a-2 cDNA sequences permitted the amplification of genomic products containing large intron sequences. Amplicon sequence analysis detected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the p150/112 reference mapping population. Validated SNPs, within diagnostic restriction enzyme sites, were used to design cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) assays. The Lpck2a-1 CAPS marker was assigned to perennial ryegrass linkage group (LG) 4 and the Lpck2a-2 CAPS marker was assigned to LG2. The location of the Lpck2a-1 gene locus supports the previous conclusion of conserved synteny between perennial ryegrass LG4, the Triticeae homoeologous group 5L chromosomes and the corresponding segment of rice chromosome 3. Allelic variation at the Lpck2a-1 and Lpck2a-2 gene loci was correlated with phenotypic variation for heading date and winter survival, respectively. SNP polymorphism may be used for the further study of the role of CK2alpha genes in the initiation of reproductive development and winter hardiness in grasses.
16240171	Trehalose serves as a stress protectant and/or reserve carbohydrate in a variety of organisms including bacteria, yeast, and invertebrates. Recently, trace amounts of trehalose have been detected in higher plants, although the function of trehalose in plants remains unknown. A cDNA clone (OsTPP1) encoding a putative trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase (TPP) for trehalose biosynthesis was isolated from rice. Functionality of the clone was demonstrated by complementation of a yeast mutant and enzymatic activity of the recombinant protein. Northern blots revealed that the OsTPP1 transcript levels were fairly low or under detectable limits in most of the tissues under ambient conditions but were highly induced within 1-2 h of chilling stress (12 degrees C) in both root and shoot tissues of seedlings. This induction was transient and disappeared after 6 h of the chilling stress. Transient expression of OsTPP1 was also induced under severe chilling stress (4 degrees C) as well as salinity and drought stresses at ambient temperatures. Application of exogenous ABA (50 microM) resulted in a transient increase of OsTPP1 expression within 20 min of the treatment, thereby suggesting involvement of ABA in OsTPP1 gene regulation. Measurements of total cellular TPP activity and trehalose content in roots indicated that both TPP activity and trehalose levels were transiently increased after chilling (12 degrees C) stress. Collectively, the data indicate that transient activation of trehalose biosynthesis is involved in early chilling stress response in rice. Possible functions of trehalose in the early stages of chilling stress response are discussed.
16240176	Although several genes have been identified in rice which are functionally equivalent to the flowering time genes in Arabidopsis, primarily genes involved in the photoperiod pathway, little data is available regarding the genes that function in the autonomous pathway in rice. In order to acquire further insight into the control of heading dates in rice, we isolated and conducted an expression analysis on OsFCA, which exhibited 38% sequence homology with Arabidopsis FCA. The N-terminal region of the OsFCA protein appears to be unusually rich in glycine-residues, unlike the N-terminal region found in FCA. However, the genetic structure of OsFCA is, in general, similar to that of FCA. RT-PCR and in silico analyses also showed that alternative splicing and polyadenylation at intron3 were conserved in the genetic expression of OsFCA. We were able to detect alpha, beta, and gamma transcripts, but not the delta transcript, of the OsFCA gene. The beta and gamma transcripts of the OsFCA gene were detected via Northern analysis in the leaves, roots, and flowers of the plant. Flowers in younger stages exhibited higher transcript levels. These data suggest that intron3 may constitute a primary control point in the OsFCA pre-mRNA processing of rice. The overexpression of OsFCA cDNA, driven by the 35S promoter, was shown to partially rescue the late flowering phenotype of the fca mutant, suggesting that the functions of the OsFCA and the FCA are partially overlapped, despite the lack of an apparent FLC homologue in the rice genome. The constitutive expression of OsFCA resulted in no downregulation of FLC, but did result in the weak upregulation of SOC1 in the transgenic Arabidopsis. OsFCA overexpression did not result in a reduction of the gamma transcript levels of FCA in the transgenic Arabidopsis either, thereby suggesting that OsFCA had no effects on the autoregulation of Arabidopsis FCA. All of these results imply conservation and divergence in the functions of FCA between rice and Arabidopsis.
16240179	We identified a 178 bp mobile DNA element in lettuce with characteristic CGAGC/GCTCG repeats in the subterminal regions. This element has terminal inverted repeats and 8-bp target site duplications typical of the hAT superfamily of class II mobile elements, but its small size and potential to form a single-stranded stable hairpin-like secondary structure suggest that it is related to MITE elements. In silico searches for related elements identified 252 plant sequences with 8-bp target site duplications and sequence similarity in their terminal and subterminal regions. Some of these sequences were predicted to encode transposases and may be autonomous elements; these constituted a separate clade within the phylogram of hAT transposases. We demonstrate that the CGAGC/GCTCG pentamer maximizes the hairpin stability compared to any other pentamer with the same C + G content, and the secondary structures of these elements are more stable than for most MITEs. We named these elements collectively as hATpin elements because of the hAT similarity and their hairpin structures. The nearly complete rice genome sequence and the highly advanced genome annotation allowed us to localize most rice elements and to deduce insertion preferences. hATpin elements are distributed on all chromosomes, but with significant bias for chromosomes 1 and 10 and in regions of moderate gene density. This family of class II mobile elements is found primarily in monocot species, but is also present in dicot species.
16240442
16241744	Strong resonant enhancements of the charge-order and spin-order superstructure-diffraction intensities in La1.8Sr0.2NiO4 are observed when x-ray energies in the vicinity of the Ni L2,3 absorption edges are used. The pronounced photon-energy and polarization dependences of these diffraction intensities allow for a critical determination of the local symmetry of the ordered spin and charge carriers. We found that not only the antiferromagnetic order but also the charge-order superstructure resides within the NiO2 layers; the holes are mainly located on in-plane oxygens surrounding a Ni2+ site with the spins coupled antiparallel in close analogy to Zhang-Rice singlets in the cuprates.
16242165	Previous studies have shown differential accumulation of sulfur rich glutelins and sulfur poor prolamins in transgenic rice seeds expressing a sunflower seed albumin gene [Hagan, N.D., Upadhyaya, N., Tabe, L.M., Higgins, T.J., 2003. The redistribution of protein sulfur in transgenic rice expressing a gene for a foreign, sulfur-rich protein. Plant J 34, 1-11]. Here, we show, by two-dimensional electrophoresis, differential accumulation of three classes of glutelin proteins - type I, II and III - and a globulin, not previously resolved, in transgenic seeds grown under low and high sulfur nutrition. Several glutelin polypeptides were resolved and four identified as a type I glutelin, two type II glutelins and a type III glutelin. Although sulfur nutrition did not affect the accumulation of sunflower seed albumin, the levels of all four identified glutelins and the globulin were lower in mature seeds derived from transgenic plants grown under sulfur-optimum or sulfur limited conditions compared to non-transgenic rice seeds. The reduction of all four glutelin polypeptides and the globulin varied from 21% to 68%. The re-allocation of sulfur reserves from endogenous proteins to the sulfur sink in transgenic grain is suggestive of a transcriptional control of sulfur mobilization in plants.
16243726	The Dof (DNA binding with one finger) proteins are plant specific transcription factors. Dof proteins are apparently encoded by a multiple gene family in higher plants. However, only one Dof gene, WPBF, was reported in wheat. In this study, a member of Dof gene family, TaDof1, was cloned from wheat. TaDof1 encode 291 amino acids, with a predicted molecular mass of 30.348 kDa. At its N-terminal end, a 52 amino acid stretch typical of Dof domain and two serine-rich stretches were observed. Sequence alignment indicated that, in Dof domain, TaDof1 share more than 75% identity with other Dof proteins of different species. TaDof1 was expressed highly in leaves and sheaths, but lowly in roots, and constitutively expressed in developing seeds of 2-12 DAP. It was interesting to note that TaDof1 was differentially expressed between hybrids F1 and parents in root, sheath and leaf. The implication of the differential expression patterns of TaDof1 was discussed in related to the up-regulation of C4 pathway related gene in hybrid rice and heterosis.
16243779	The succession and phylogenetic profiles of methanogenic archaeal communities associated with rice straw decomposition in rice-field soil were studied by polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) analysis followed by 16S rDNA sequencing. Nylon bags containing either leaf sheaths or blades were buried in the plowed layer of a Japanese rice field under drained conditions during the off-crop season and under flooded conditions after transplanting. In addition, rice straw samples that had been buried in the rice field under drained conditions during the off-crop season were temporarily removed during spring plowing and then re-buried in the same rice field under flooded conditions at transplanting. Populations of methanogenic archaea were examined by amplification of the 16S rRNA genes in the DNA extracted from the rice straw samples. No PCR product was produced for samples of leaf sheath or blade prior to burial or after burial under drained conditions, indicating that the methanogen population was very small during decomposition of rice straw under oxic conditions. Many common bands were observed in rice straw samples of leaf sheath and blade during decomposition of rice straw under flooded conditions. Cluster analysis based on DGGE patterns divided methanogenic archaeal communities into two groups before and after the mid-season drainage. Sequence analysis of DGGE bands that were commonly present were closely related to Methanomicrobiales and Rice cluster I. Methanomicrobiales, Rice cluster I and Methanosarcinales were major members before the mid-season drainage, whereas the DGGE bands that characterized methanogenic archaeal communities after the mid-season drainage were closely related to Methanomicrobiales. These results indicate that mid-season drainage affected the methanogenic archaeal communities irrespective of their location on rice straw (sheath and blade) and the previous history of decomposition during the off-crop season.
16243851	Plastid NADP-dependent malate dehydrogenase (MDH) catalyses the conversion of oxaloacetate to malate. In C4 plants, it is involved in photosynthetic carbon assimilation. In Poaceae, one NADP-MDH gene has been identified in rice (C3; Erhartoideae) and maize (C4; Panicoideae), whereas two tandemly repeated genes have been identified in Sorghum (C4; Panicoideae). In the present study, the molecular evolution of the NADP-MDH multigene family was investigated in order to analyse how the C4 isoform has evolved over a broader range of panicoid grasses. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based cloning was used to isolate cDNAs encoding NADP-MDHs from 15 species of Panicoideae. A gene phylogeny was reconstructed based on cDNA sequences using distance and maximum parsimony methods. Episodic selection along some branches of the phylogenetic tree was tested by analysing non-synonymous and synonymous rate ratios. Transcription of NADP-MDH genes was compared in green leaves of five accessions of Saccharum, Sorghum and Vetiveria using a semi-quantitative PCR approach. Phylogenetic analyses of these data support the existence of two NADP-MDH gene lineages (NMDH-I and NMDH-II) in several Andropogoneae (i.e. Saccharum, Sorghum and Vetiveria). Episodic positive selection was shown along the basal branch of the NMDH-II clade. Three amino acid modifications allow the two gene lineages to be distinguished, suggesting a positive selection at these sites. In green leaves, we showed that the transcript accumulation was higher for NMDH-I than for NMDH-II. It is hypothesized that the maintenance of both NADP-MDH genes in some Andropogoneae is due to a partition of the original functions across both copies. NMDH-I probably corresponds to the C4 isoform as previously suggested. Nevertheless, some C4 species (e.g. maize) only have one gene which should be selected for its high expression level in leaves. This study confirms that gene duplicates have been recruited for C4 photosynthesis but are not required in every case.
16244143	The transfer of DNA from Agrobacterium to plant cell nuclei is initiated by a cleavage reaction within the 25-bp right border of Ti plasmids. In an effort to develop all-native DNA transformation vectors, 50 putative right border alternatives were identified in both plant expressed sequence tags and genomic DNA. Efficacy tests in a tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) model system demonstrated that 14 of these elements displayed at least 50% of the activity of conventional Agrobacterium transfer DNA borders. Four of the most effective plant-derived right border alternatives were found to be associated with intron-exon junctions. Additional elements were embedded within introns, exons, untranslated trailers, and intergenic DNA. Based on the identification of a single right border alternative in Arabidopsis and three in rice (Oryza sativa), the occurrence of this motif was estimated at a frequency of at least 0.8x10(-8). Modification of plasmid DNA sequences flanking the alternative borders demonstrated that both upstream and downstream sequences play an important role in initiating DNA transfer. Optimal DNA transfer required the elements to be preceded by pyrimidine residues interspaced by AC-rich trinucleotides. Alteration of this organization lowered transformation frequencies by 46% to 93%. Despite their weaker resemblance with left borders, right border alternatives also functioned effectively in terminating DNA transfer, if both associated with an upstream A[C/T]T[C/G]A[A/T]T[G/T][C/T][G/T][C/G]A[C/T][C/T][A/T] domain and tightly linked cytosine clusters at their junctions with downstream DNA. New insights in border region requirements were used to construct an all-native alfalfa (Medicago sativa) transfer DNA vector that can be used for the production of intragenic plants.
16244437	The effect of germination and subsequent heat-processing on the degradation of soluble proteins, including some allergenic proteins, in brown rice grains was investigated. The content of soluble proteins, including 14-16-kDa and 26-kDa allergens, in the germinated and processed brown rice grains (GPR) was much lower than that of non-germinated brown rice. These proteins in brown rice grains were also much lower after subsequent heat-processing during the manufacturing process. The protease activity of germinated brown rice (GR) was detected and increased 1.5 times after germination. The optimum pH values for degradation of the 26-kDa and 14-16-kDa allergens in the GR grains were 4 and between 5 and 7, respectively. These results suggest that the decrease in the soluble proteins and allergens was induced in part by proteolytic degradation. The presence of a detergent enhanced the proteolytic degradation of the soluble proteins, especially of the 26-kDa allergen, in the brown rice grains. The degradation of the 26-kDa allergen was weakly inhibited by NEM, suggesting cysteine protease(s) may have been involved in its degradation. These results suggest that the two abundant allergens were degraded in a different manner and probably by different proteases in the grains during germination.
16244872	More than 2,000 genome-wide barley single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were developed by resequencing unigene fragments from eight diverse accessions. The average genome-wide SNP frequency observed in 877 unigenes was 1 SNP per 200 bp. However, SNP frequency was highly variable with the least number of SNP and SNP haplotypes observed within European cultivated germplasm reflecting effects of breeding history on genetic diversity. More than 300 SNP loci were mapped genetically in three experimental mapping populations which allowed the construction of an integrated SNP map incorporating a large number of RFLP, AFLP and SSR markers (1,237 loci in total). The genes used for SNP discovery were selected based on their transcriptional response to a variety of abiotic stresses. A set of known barley abiotic stress QTL was positioned on the linkage map, while the available sequence and gene expression information facilitated the identification of genes potentially associated with these traits. Comparison of the sequenced SNP loci to the rice genome sequence identified several regions of highly conserved gene order providing a framework for marker saturation in barley genomic regions of interest. The integration of genome-wide SNP and expression data with available genetic and phenotypic information will facilitate the identification of gene function in barley and other non-model organisms.
16244896	Isolates of Magnaporthe grisea causing gray leaf spot on rice were collected in Argentina and analyzed for mating distribution and fertility. One hundred and twenty-five isolates of M. grisea were collected from rice plants between 2000 and 2003. Each isolate was tested for mating type through a polymerase chain reaction based assay. All M. grisea isolates from Argentina belonged to a single mating type, MAT1.1. The fertility status of isolates was determined using controlled crosses in vitro, pairing each isolate with GUY11 and KA9 (MAT1.2 standard hermaphroditic testers). Production of perithecia was scarce among isolates of the blast pathogen since a low percentage of them (7.2%) developed perithecia with only one of the fertile tester (KA9); all crosses failed with the other tester strain. Asci and ascospores were not observed. The presence of only one mating type and the absence of female fertile isolates indicate that sexual reproduction is rare or absent in M. grisea populations associated with rice in Argentina.
16244905	CBFs are key regulators in the Arabidopsis cold signaling pathway. We used Hordeum vulgare (barley), an important crop and a diploid Triticeae model, to characterize the CBF family from a low temperature tolerant cereal. We report that barley contains a large CBF family consisting of at least 20 genes (HvCBFs) comprising three multigene phylogenetic groupings designated the HvCBF1-, HvCBF3-, and HvCBF4-subgroups. For the HvCBF1- and HvCBF3-subgroups, there are comparable levels of phylogenetic diversity among rice, a cold-sensitive cereal, and the cold-hardy Triticeae. For the HvCBF4-subgroup, while similar diversity levels are observed in the Triticeae, only a single ancestral rice member was identified. The barley CBFs share many functional characteristics with dicot CBFs, including a general primary domain structure, transcript accumulation in response to cold, specific binding to the CRT motif, and the capacity to induce cor gene expression when ectopically expressed in Arabidopsis. Individual HvCBF genes differed in response to abiotic stress types and in the response time frame, suggesting different sets of HvCBF genes are employed relative to particular stresses. HvCBFs specifically bound monocot and dicot cor gene CRT elements in vitro under both warm and cold conditions; however, binding of HvCBF4-subgroup members was cold dependent. The temperature-independent HvCBFs activated cor gene expression at warm temperatures in transgenic Arabidopsis, while the cold-dependent HvCBF4-subgroup members of three Triticeae species did not. These results suggest that in the Triticeae - as in Arabidopsis - members of the CBF gene family function as fundamental components of the winter hardiness regulon.
16245148	Human serum albumin (HSA) is the most widely used clinical serum protein. Currently, commercial HSA can only be obtained from human plasma, due to lack of commercially feasible recombinant protein expression systems. In this study, inducible expression and secretion of HSA by transformed rice suspension cell culture was established. Mature form of HSA was expressed under the control of the sucrose starvation-inducible rice alpha Amy3 promoter, and secretion of HSA into the culture medium was achieved by using the alpha Amy3 signal sequence. High concentrations of HSA were secreted into culture medium in a short time (2-4 days) by sucrose depletion after cell concentrations had reached a peak density in culture medium containing sucrose. The recombinant HSA had the same electrophoretic mobility as commercial HSA and was stable and free from apparent proteolysis in the culture medium. In a flask scale culture with repeated sucrose provision-depletion cycles, HSA was stably produced with yields up to 11.5% of total medium proteins or 15 mg/L per cycle after each sucrose provision-depletion cycle. A bubble column type bioreactor was designed for production of HSA. In the bioreactor scale culture, HSA was produced with yields up to 76.4 mg/L 4 days after sucrose depletion. HSA was purified from the culture medium to high purity by a simple purification scheme. Enrichment of HSA in culture medium simplifies downstream purification, minimizes protease degradation, and may reduce production cost. The combination of a DNA construct containing the alpha Amy3 promoter and signal sequence, and the use of a rice suspension cell culture can provide an effective system for the production of recombinant pharmaceutical proteins.
16245149	Heterologous protein expression levels in transgenic plants are of critical importance in the production of plant-made pharmaceuticals (PMPs). We studied a puroindoline b promoter and signal peptide (Tapur) driving human lysozyme expression in rice endosperm. The results demonstrated that human lysozyme expressed under the control of the Tapur cassette is seed-specific, readily extractable, active, and properly processed. Immuno-electron microscopy indicated that lysozyme expressed from this cassette is localized in protein bodies I and II in rice endosperm cells, demonstrating that this non-storage promoter and signal peptide can be used for targeting human lysozyme to rice protein bodies. We successfully employed a strategy to improve the expression of human lysozyme in transgenic rice grain by combining the Tapur cassette with our well established Gt1 expression system. The results demonstrated that when the two expression cassettes were combined, the expression level of human lysozyme increased from 5.24 +/- 0.34 mg(-1) g flour for the best single cassette line to 9.24 +/- 0.06 mg(-1) g flour in the best double cassette line, indicating an additive effect on expression of human lysozyme in rice grain.
16245158	Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) has great potential in diabetes therapy. In order to accumulate GLP-1 in endosperm tissue of rice, a codon-optimized GLP-1 (mGLP-1) synthetic gene was directly expressed under the control of rice storage protein glutelin GluB-1 promoter in transgenic rice plants. Unexpectedly, neither the transcripts nor the transgene products were detected in the seeds of regenerated plants. Furthermore, transcripts of GluB-1 gene in these transgenic plants were not detected, and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) corresponding to the transgene were detected. These results indicated that the expression of mGLP-1 was silenced by co-suppression in rice transgenic seeds. To avoid silencing, mGLP-1 was fused to GFP with or without self-processing 2A sequence, and introduced into rice plants. Both chimeric genes were highly expressed in these transgenic rice seeds, indicating that gene silencing could be avoided by changing the transgene components. Furthermore, the fusion protein containing the 2A sequence were processed into GFP-2A and mGLP-1 peptides with the efficiency of more than 80%, but the processed mGLP-1 peptides were not detected. Lack of accumulation of mGLP-1 may be explained by proteolytic digestion in the cytoplasm.
16245162	Zearalenone (ZEN) is an estrogenic mycotoxin produced by the necrotrophic cereal pathogen Fusarium graminearum. This mycotoxin is detoxified by ZHD101, a lactonohydrolase from Clonostachys rosea, or EGFP:ZHD101, its fusion to the C-terminus of an enhanced green fluorescence protein. We previously showed that egfp:zhd101 is efficiently expressed in T(0) leaves of rice. In this study, we assessed the feasibility of in planta detoxification of the mycotoxin using progeny. When protein extract from T(1) leaves was incubated with ZEN, the amount of the toxin decreased significantly as measured by HPLC. ZEN degradation activity was also detected in vivo in transgenic T(2) seeds. These results suggest that zhd101 can be exploited as an efficient and cost-effective system for protection of important cereals that are more susceptible to the pathogen (e.g., wheat and maize) from contamination with the estrogenic mycotoxin.
16245714	Ochratoxin A (OTA), a mycotoxin widespread in cereals, occurs in polished rice that is consumed as cooked rice after washing and steaming. Cooking decreases OTA levels in food to varying extents, but little is known about how cooking changes the biological activity of this mycotoxin. We therefore evaluated the fate of OTA during rice cooking to determine the OTA residues and cytotoxic potential in vitro. Water-washed rice, ordinary cooked rice, and pressure-cooked rice were prepared from three polished rice lots naturally contaminated with OTA. Residual OTA in each sample was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), whereas in vitro cytotoxicity of OTA to C6 glioma cells, susceptible to low levels (nanograms per milliliter) of OTA, was used to confirm the chemical analysis. OTA concentration, as determined by HPLC analysis, in the cooked rice by both types of cookers was significantly lower than (59 to 75%) in the raw polished rice and water-washed rice. The cytotoxicity of the OTA that remained in the pressure-cooked rice from three lots was markedly decreased (approximately 20%, P < 0.05) when compared with other samples in respective lots. This confirms that cooking lowers OTA residues. Although washing polished rice with water had little effect on OTA levels, pressure steaming appeared to be the critical cooking step not only to reduce OTA residues in polished rice before reaching the consumer as the dietary staple of cooked rice, but also to diminish cytotoxicity of OTA.
16246269	We used cDNA microarrays containing approximately 9,000 unigenes to identify 486 salt responsive expressed sequence tags (ESTs) (representing approximately 450 unigenes) in shoots of the highly salt-tolerant rice variety, Nona Bokra (Oryza sativa L. ssp. Indica pv. Nona). Some of the genes identified in this study had previously been associated with salt stress. However the majority were novel, indicating that there is a great number of genes that are induced by salt exposure. Analysis of the salt stress expression profile data of Nona provided clues regarding some putative cellular and molecular processes that are undertaken by this tolerant rice variety in response to salt stress. Namely, we found that multiple transcription factors were induced during the initial salt response of shoots. Many genes whose encoded proteins are implicated in detoxification, protectant and transport were rapidly induced. Genes supporting photosynthesis were repressed and those supporting carbohydrate metabolism were altered. Commonality among the genes induced by salt exposure with those induced during senescence and biotic stress responses suggests that there are shared signaling pathways among these processes. We further compared the transcriptome changes of the salt-sensitive cultivar, IR28, with that of Nona rice. Many genes that are salt responsive in Nona were found to be differentially regulated in IR28. This study identified a large number of candidate functional genes that appear to be involved in salt tolerance and further examination of these genes may enable the molecular basis of salt tolerance to be elucidated.
16247674	Bifidobacteria are important for the production of fermented dairy products and probiotic formulas but have a low capacity for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) production. To develop a Bifidobacterium strain with an enhanced GABA production, we transformed Bifidobacterium longum with a rice glutamate decarboxylase (OsGADC(-)) gene by electroporation. When the transformed strain was cultured in medium containing monosodium glutamate, the amount of GABA increased significantly compared with those of untransformed Bifidobacterium. Thus, by introducing a plant derived GAD gene, a Bifidobacterium strain has been genetically engineered to produce high levels of GABA from glutamate.
16247685	The existence of Oryza glumaepatula is threatened by devastation and, thus, the implementation of conservation strategies is extremely relevant. This study aimed to characterize the genetic variability and estimate population parameters of 30 O. glumaepatula populations from three Brazilian biomes using 10 microsatellite markers. The levels of allelic variability for the SSR loci presented a mean of 10.3 alleles per locus and a value of 0.10 for the average allelic frequency value. The expected total heterozygosity (H(e)) ranged from 0.63 to 0.86. For the 30 populations tested, the mean observed (H(o)) and expected heterozygosities (H(e)) were 0.03 and 0.11 within population, respectively, indicating an excess of homozygotes resulting from the preferentially self-pollinating reproduction habit. The estimated fixation index ((IS)) was 0.79 that differed significantly from zero, indicating high inbreeding within each O. glumaepatula population. The total inbreeding of the species ((IT)) was 0.98 and the genetic diversity indexes among populations, (ST) and (ST), were 0.85 and 0.90, respectively, indicating high genetic variability among them. Thus, especially for populations located in regions threatened with devastation, it is urgent that in situ preservation conditions should be created or that collections be made for ex situ preservation to prevent loss of the species genetic variability.
16248553	The human cytochrome P450 CYP1A1 gene was introduced into rice plants (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare). One-month-old CYP1A1 plants grown in soil clearly showed a healthy growth and tolerance to 8.8 microM atrazine and 50 microM simazine, but nontransgenic plants were completely killed by the herbicides. Although transgenic and nontransgenic plants metabolized the two herbicides into the same sets of compounds, CYP1A1 plants metabolized atrazine and simazine more rapidly than did control plants. In small-scale experiments, residual amounts of atrazine and simazine in the culture medium of CYP1A1 plants were 43.4 and 12.3% of those in control medium; those of nontransgenic Nipponbare were 68.3 and 57.2%, respectively. When cultivated in soil with 2.95 microM atrazine and 3.15 microM simazine for 25 days, CYP1A1 plants eliminated 1.3 times more atrazine and 1.4 times more simazine from the soil than did control plants. Thus, CYP1A1 rice plants make it possible to remove atrazine and simazine more rapidly from the culture medium and soil than can nontransgenic Nipponbare.
16248565	5-(2,6-difluorobenzyl)oxymethyl-5-methyl-3-(3-methylthiophen-2-yl)-1,2-isoxazoline derivative was synthesized, and its herbicidal activity was assessed under glasshouse and flooded paddy conditions. 5-(2,6-Difluorobenzyl)oxymethyl-5-methyl-3-(3-methylthiophen-2-yl)-1,2-isoxazoline demonstrated good rice selectivity and potent herbicidal activity against annual weeds at 125 g of a.i. ha(-1) under greenhouse conditions. Soil application of this compound showed complete control of barnyard-grass to the fourth leaf stage at 250 g of a.i. ha(-1). Field trials indicated that this compound controlled annual weeds rapidly with a good tolerance on transplanted rice seedlings by post-emergence and soil application. This compound showed a low mammalian and environmental toxicity in various toxicological tests.
16248568	The sorption efficiency of indigenous rice (Oryza sativa) bran for the removal of organics, that is, benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and cumene (BTEC), from aqueous solutions has been studied. The sorption of BTEC by rice bran is observed over a wide pH range of 1-10, indicating its high applicability to remove these organics from various industrial effluents. Rice bran effectively adsorbs BTEC of 10 microg mL(-1) sorbate concentration from water at temperatures of 283-323 +/- 2 K. The effect of pH, agitation time between solid and liquid phases, sorbent dose, its particle size, and temperature on the sorption of BTEC onto rice bran has been studied. The pore area and average pore diameter of rice bran by BET method are found to be 19 +/- 0.7 m(2) g(-1) and 52.8 +/- 1.3 nm. The rice bran exhibits appreciable sorption of the order of 85 +/- 3.5, 91 +/- 1.8, 94 +/- 1.4, and 96 +/- 1.2% for 10 microg mL(-1) concentration of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and cumene, respectively, in 60 min of agitation time using 0.1 g of rice bran at pH 6 and 303 K. The sorption data follow Freundlich, Langmuir, and Dubinin-Radushkevich (D-R) models. Sorption capacities have been computed for BTEC by Freundlich (32 +/- 3, 61 +/- 14, 123 +/- 28, and 142 +/- 37 m mol g(-1)), Langmuir (6.6 +/- 0.1, 7.5 +/- 0.13, 9.5 +/- 0.22, and 9.4 +/- 0.18 m mol g(-1)), and D-R isotherms (11 +/- 0.5, 16 +/- 1.3, 30 +/- 2.2, and 33 +/- 2.5 m mol g(-1)), respectively. The Lagergren equation is employed for the kinetics of the sorption of BTEC onto rice bran and first-order rate constants (0.03 +/- 0.002, 0.04 +/- 0.003, 0.04 +/- 0.003, and 0.05 +/- 0.004 min(-1)) have been computed for BTEC at their concentration of 100 mug mL(-1) at 303 K. Studies on the variation of sorption with temperatures (283-323 K) at 100 mug mL(-1) sorbate concentration gave thermodynamic constants DeltaH (kJ mol(-1)), DeltaG (kJ mol(-1)), and DeltaS (J mol(-1) K(-1)). The results indicate that the sorption of organics onto rice bran is exothermic and spontaneous in nature under the optimized experimental conditions selected. This sorbent has been used successfully to accumulate and then to determine benzene, toluene, and ethylbenzene in wastewater sample.
16248580	The ultrastructures of isolated starch granules from Ilpumbyeo (IP), a low-amylose japonica rice, and its mutant, Goami2 (G2), a high-amylose rice, which have extreme contrasts in physicochemical properties, cooking qualities (Kang, H. J.; Hwang, I. K.; Kim, K. S.; Choi, H. C. Comparative structure and physicochemical properties of Ilpumbyeo, a high-quality japonica rice, and its mutant, Suweon 464. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2003, 51, 6598-6603. Kim, K. S.; Kang, H. J.; Hwang, I. K.; Hwang, H. G.; Kim, T. Y.; Choi, H. C. Comparative ultrastructure of Ilpumbyeo, a high-quality japonica rice, and its mutant, Suweon 464: Scanning and transmission electron microscopy studies. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2004, 52, 3876-3883), and susceptibility to amylolytic enzymes (Kim, K. S.; Kang, H. J.; Hwang, I. K.; Hwang, H. G.; Kim, T. Y.; Choi, H. C. Fibrillar microfilaments associated with a high-amylose rice, Goami2, a mutant of Ilpumbyeo, a high-quality japonica rice. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2005, 53, 2600-2608), were compared. In isolated preparation, IP consisted entirely of well-separated individual starch granules (ISG), whereas G2 consisted of two populations, the large voluminous bodies and the smaller forms, the ISGs. High-voltage electron microscopy revealed that each of the voluminous bodies consisted of tightly packed smaller subunits, the ISGs, indicating that they represent the compound starch granules (CSGs) of G2. This suggests that the structural as well as functional unit of G2 involved in food processing is, unlike IP and other ordinary rices, not ISG but is primarily CSG. ISGs located at the periphery of CSGs were fused to each other with adjacent ones forming a thick band or wall encircling the entire circumference. The periphery of ISGs separated from CSGs of G2 consisted of thin radially oriented filaments arranged side by side along the entire granule surface, whereas no such filaments occurred in ISG of IP. It appears that the thick band and the peripheral filaments surrounding CSGs and ISGs, respectively, function as a structural barrier that limits the entrance of water into the granules and subsequent absorption, causing the low swelling power, incomplete gelatinization, and finally poor quality of cooked rice in G2.
16248591	Arsenic is present in rice grain mainly as inorganic arsenic. Little is known about the effect of cooking on inorganic arsenic content in rice and its bioavailability. This study evaluated total arsenic and inorganic arsenic in rice cooked with arsenic-contaminated water, the bioaccessibility of As(III) and As(V) after simulated gastrointestinal digestion, and the extent of arsenic retention and transport by Caco-2 cells used as a model of intestinal epithelia. After cooking, inorganic arsenic contents increase significantly. After simulated gastrointestinal digestion, the bioaccessibility of inorganic arsenic reached 63-99%; As(V) was the main species found. In Caco-2 cells, arsenic retention, transport, and total uptake (retention + transport) varied between 0.6 and 6.4, 3.3 and 11.4, and 3.9 and 17.8%, respectively. These results show that in arsenic endemic areas with subsistence rice diets, the contribution of inorganic arsenic from cooked rice should be considered in assessments of arsenic health risk.
16249326	We isolated two cDNA clones (OsCLC-1 and OsCLC-2) homologous to tobacco CLC-Nt1, which encodes a voltage-gated chloride channel, from rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica, cv. Nipponbare). The deduced amino acid sequences were highly conserved (87.9% identity with each other). Southern blot analysis of the rice genomic DNA revealed that OsCLC-1 and OsCLC-2 were single-copy genes on chromosomes 4 and 2, respectively. OsCLC-1 was expressed in most tissues, whereas OsCLC-2 was expressed only in the roots, nodes, internodes and leaf sheaths. The level of expression of OsCLC-1, but not of OsCLC-2, was increased by treatment with NaCl. Both genes could partly substitute for GEF1, which encodes the sole chloride channel in yeast, by restoring growth under ionic stress. These results indicate that both genes are chloride channel genes. The proteins from both genes were immunochemically detected in the tonoplast fraction. Tagged synthetic green fluorescent protein which was fused to OsCLC-1 or OsCLC-2 localized in the vacuolar membranes. These results indicate that the proteins may play a role in the transport of chloride ions across the vacuolar membrane. We isolated loss-of-function mutants of both genes from a panel of rice mutants produced by the insertion of a retrotransposon, Tos17, in the exon region, and found inhibition of growth at all life stages.
16252344	A digital image analysis algorithm based color and morphological features was developed to identify the six varieties (ey7954, syz3, xs11, xy5968, xy9308, z903) rice seeds which are widely planted in Zhejiang Province. Seven color and fourteen morphological features were used for discriminant analysis. Two hundred and forty kernels used as the training data set and sixty kernels as the test data set in the neural network used to identify rice seed varieties. When the model was tested on the test data set, the identification accuracies were 90.00%, 88.00%, 95.00%, 82.00%, 74.00%, 80.00% for ey7954, syz3, xs11, xy5968, xy9308, z903 respectively.
16252702	FACE (free air carbon dioxide enrichment) technology may provide a means by which the environment around growing plants can be modified to realistically simulate the concentration of atmospheric CO2 in the future. The plant growth and its yield of plant species can be enhanced under FACE. Identification of genomic regions influencing the response of yield and its components to elevated CO2 will be useful for understanding the genetics of active response to changed CO2 environment and developing higher yield cultivars, which will be adapted to future enriched atmospheric CO2 environment. A mapping population of 65 indica (IR24) chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) in japonica (Asominori) background and their parents were used to detect QTLs for yield and its components, e. g. number of fertile tillers per plant (FT), 1000-grain weight (TGW), number of grains per panicle (GP) and grain yield per plant (GY) under FACE (200 micromol CO2/mol above current levels) and current CO2 concentration (Ambient, about 370 micromol CO2/mol) in the field experiment. The results showed that, GY, GP and FT of two parents under FACE were significant greater than that under Ambient. The transgressive segregation of the four traits was observed in the CSSLs population under both FACE and Ambient. A total of 20 QTLs for the four traits were detected on chromosome 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 12 with LOD (Log10-likelihood ratio) of QTLs ranging from 2.5 to 5.7. Three QTLs were detected under both FACE and Ambient. However,other QTLs were detected only under one level of CO2, which indicated that these loci were sensitive to CO2 concentration. Additionally, two QTLs qFT12 and qGP4 were found for the QTL x Environment (QE) interaction effects. It is suggested that there is a high possibility to improve the yield of rice under elevated CO2 through marker-assisted selection.
16252703	In the F2 population crossed from two early stability rice (Oryza sativa L.) with four cultivars, eight uniform strains were recorded. Genetic analysis showed that both uniform strains with uniform agronomic characteristics and segregated strains segregating in Mendelian manner were observed in F2 population of the same combination. Four types of marker-bands were obtained after the F2 uniform strains were marked by 26 ISSR primers:t ype I, maternal marker bands present, and paternal marker bands absent; type II, paternal marker bands present, and maternal marker bands absent; type III, parts of maternal and paternal marker bands present, and the others absent; type IV, new recombined marker bands appeared, and all maternal and paternal marker bands absent. But segregating strains showed heterzygosity marker bands, maternal and paternal marker bands being present. The uniform strains and normal strains in rice might be grouped into two classes on the basis of the 2000 bp marker band amplified by the ISSR marker primers No. 900. This result would provide experimental basis for the study on genetic mechanism of early stability in rice.
16252861	The study showed that under rice-duck farming, the number of rice non-productive tiller reduced significantly, the ratio of its effective panicles increased by 8.08 %, and its basal penetration light rate enhanced by 4.05%. At full-heading and maturing stages, the green leaf ratio under rice-duck farming was 6.01% and 10.65% higher than the control, and the leaf chlorophyll content was increased by 2.90% and 17.82%, respectively. Under rice-duck farming, the root vigour at full-heading stage and the photosynthesis capability of flag leaf at grain-filling stage were increased by 24.2% and 15.73%, which could accumulate more assimilative matter, and increase the harvest index and yield by 2.87% and 4.93%, respectively.
16252882	The study on the vertical and horizontal distribution of organic matters and total nitrogen (TN) in the sediment of ditch wetland naturally grown with reed (Phragmites communis) and wild rice (Zizania latifolia) showed that the sediment below 40 cm depth had a significant effectiveness in retaining and accumulating organic matters and TN, but in its surface layer, this effectiveness varied largely with seasons, and the maximum was more than twofold of the minimum. TN was highly correlated with organic matters, the correlation coefficient being 0.9876 in reed wetland and 0.9335 in wild rice wetland, and in water phase, it was positively related to NH4+ -N and NO3-N, indicating that the main composition of TN was organic N, and the mineralization of organic N was the sources of inorganic N. The harvest of reed in each autumn could take away 818 kg x hm(-2) of N and 103.6 kg x hm(-2) of P, and that of wild rice could take away 131 kg x hm(-2) of N and 28.9 kg x hm(-2) of P. Zizania caduci flora had a high assimilation ability of nutrients. Its cultivation in ditch wetland to replace wild helophytes would be a good approach to attain higher absorbing ability of N and P, and to resolve the secondary pollution problem of emerged plants, because farmers could harvest it voluntarily.
16254721	A direct competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) based on a monoclonal antibody has been developed and optimized for detection of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), and an ELISA kit has been designed. This immunoassay was highly specific, sensitive, rapid, simple, and suitable for aflatoxin monitoring. AFB1 concentrations determinable by ELISA ranged from 0.1 to 10 microg L(-1). The IC50 value was 0.62 microg L(-1). Recovery from spiked rice samples averaged between 94 and 113%. The effect of different reagents on the stability of HRP-AFB1 conjugate solution was studied. The performance of a stabilized enzyme tracer in ELISA was determined and compared with that of a freshly prepared control solution of HRP-AFB(1) conjugate. The results showed that stabilizing media containing 0.02% BSA, 0.1% Kathon CG, and 0.05 mol L(-1) calcium chloride in 0.05 mol L(-1) Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.2) maintained the activity of HRP-AFB1 at a dilution of 1:1000 for a period of at least 12 months at room temperature whereas the reference conjugate solution without the additives lost its activity within a few days. Several additives were tested for their stabilizing effect on a monoclonal antibody (MAb) immobilized on the surface of polystyrene microtitre plates. It was shown that immobilized MAb, treated with post-coating solutions containing PVA, BSA, and combinations of these substances with trehalose, retained its activity for at least 4 months at 4 degrees C, whereas the untreated MAb-coated plate lost its activity within 2 days.
16254725	The floral organs are formed from floral meristem with a regular initiation pattern in angiosperm species. Flowers of naked seed rice (nsr) were characterized by the overdeveloped lemma and palea, the transformation of lodicules to palea-/lemma-like organs, the decreased number of stamens and occasionally extra pistils. Some nsr spikelets contained additional floral organs of four whorls and/or abnormal internal florets. The floral primordium of nsr spikelet is differentiated under an irregular pattern and an incomplete determination. And molecular analysis indicated that nsr was a novel homeotic mutation in OsMADS1, suggesting that OsMADS1 played a distinct role in regulating the differentiation pattern of floral primordium and in conferring the determination of flower meristem. The gain-of-function of OsMADS1 transgenic lines presented the transformation of outer glumes to lemma-/palea-like organs and no changes in length of lemma and palea, but loss-of-function of OsMADS1 transgenic lines displayed the overdeveloped lemma and palea. Both findings revealed that OsMADS1 played a role in specifying lemma and palea and acted as a repressor of overdevelopment of lemma and palea. Moreover, it was indicated that OsMADS1 upregulated the transcript level of AP3 homologue OsMADS16, using real-time PCR analysis on gain- and loss-of-function of OsMADS1 transgenic lines.
16255165	We isolated cDNAs encoding betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH, EC 1.2.1.8) from the salt-tolerant Poaceae, Zoysia tenuifolia by polymerase chain reactions. Zoysia betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (ZBD1) is 1892bp long and codes for 507 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of ZBD1 is 88% similar to the sequence of rice BADH. Ten cDNA clones were isolated from a cDNA Library of salt-treated Z. tenuifolia by using the ZBD1 fragment as a probe. The proteins coded in some clones were more homologous to BBD2, the cytosolic BADH of barley, than to ZBD1. To investigate their enzymatic properties, ZBD1 and spinach BADH were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. The optimal pH of ZBD1 was 9.5, which was more alkaline than that of spinach BADH. ZBD1 was less tolerant to NaCl than spinach BADH. ZBD1 showed not only BADH activity but also aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase activity. The Km values of ZBD1 for betaine aldehyde, 4-aminobutyraldehyde (AB-ald), and 3-aminopropionaldehyde (AP-ald) were 291, 49, and 4.0 microM, respectively. ZBD1 showed higher specific activities for AB-ald and AP-ald than did spinach BADH.
16255173	A rice CDPK gene, OsCDPK14 (AY144497), was cloned from developing caryopses of rice (Oryza sativa cv. Zhonghua 15). Its cDNA sequence (1922 bp) contains an ORF encoding a 514 amino acids protein (56.7kD, pl 5.18). OsCDPK14 shows the typical structural features of the CDPK family, including a conserved catalytic Ser/Thr kinase domain, an autoinhibitory domain and a CaM-like domain with four putative Ca2+-binding EF hands. Subcellular targeting indicated that OsCDPK14 was located in the cytoplasm, probably due to the absence of myristoylation and palmitoylation motifs. OsCDPK14 was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified from bacterial extracts. The recombinant protein was shown to be a functional protein kinase using Syntide-2, a synthetic peptide. Kinase activity was shown to be Ca2+-dependent, and this activation was strongly enhanced by Mn2+ and inhibited by W7 in vitro. These results provide significant insights into the regulation and biochemical properties of OsCDPK14, suggesting OsCDPK14 may be a signal factor of cytoplasm in rice plant.
16256262	Long-term field trials using lignite fly ash (LFA) were carried out in rice crops during the period 1996-2000 at Mine I, Neyveli Lignite Corporation, Tamil Nadu. LFA, being alkaline and endowed with an excellent pozzolanic nature, silt loam texture, and plant nutrients, has the potential to improve the texture, fertility, and crop productivity of mine spoil. The rice crops were the first, third, fifth, and sixth crops in rotation. The other crops, such as green gram (second) and sun hemp (fourth), were grown as green manure. For experimental trials, LFA was applied at various dosages (0, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, and 200 t/ha), with and without press mud (10 t/ha), before cultivation of the first crop. Repeat applications of LFA were made at the same dosages in treatments of up to 50 t/ha (with and without press mud) before cultivation of the third and fifth crops. Press mud, a lightweight organic waste product from the sugar industry, was used as an organic amendment and source of plant nutrients. Also, a recommended dosage of chemical fertilizer, along with gypsum, humic acid, and biofertilizer as supplementing agents, was applied in all the treatments, including control. With one-time and repeat applications of LFA, from 5 to 20 t/ha (with and without press mud), the crop yield (grain and straw) increased significantly (p < 0.05), in the range from 3.0 to 42.0% over the corresponding control. The maximum yield was obtained with repeat applications of 20 t/ha of LFA with press mud in the third crop. The press mud enhanced the yield in the range of 1.5-10.2% with various dosages of LFA. The optimum dosage of LFA was 20 t/ha for both one-time and repeat applications. Repeat applications of LFA at lower dosages of up to 20 t/ha were more effective in increasing the yield than the corresponding one-time applications of up to 20 t/ha and repeat applications at 50 t/ha. One-time and repeat applications of LFA of up to 20 t/ha (with and without press mud), apart from increasing the yield, evinced improvement in the texture and fertility of mine spoil and the nutrient content of crop produce. Furthermore, some increase in the content of trace and heavy metals and the level of gamma-emitters in the mine spoil and crop produce was observed, but well within the permissible limits. The residual effect of LFA on succeeding crops was also encouraging in terms of eco-friendliness. Beyond 20 t/ha of LFA, the crop yield decreased significantly (p < 0.05), as a result of the formation of hardpan in the mine spoil and possibly the higher concentration of soluble salts in the LFA. However, the adverse effects of soluble salts were annulled progressively during the cultivation of succeeding crops. A plausible mechanism for the improved fertility of mine spoil and the carryover or uptake of toxic trace and heavy metals and gamma-emitters in mine spoil and crop produce is also discussed.
16256327	In this paper, a new effective recycling method for rice husks and waste expanded polystyrene is developed by using a combination of both wastes. A styrene solution of waste expanded polystyrene is used as a binder for rice husks-plastics composites. The composites are prepared with various mix proportions by a hot press molding method, and tested for apparent density, water absorption, expansion in thickness, and dry and wet flexural strengths. From the test results, the apparent density of the composites is increased with increasing binder content and filler-binder ratio. Their flexural strength and wet flexural strengths reach maximums at a binder content of 30.0% and a filler-binder ratio of 1.0. Their water absorption and expansion in thickness are decreased with increasing binder content and filler-binder ratio. Since the composites have a high flexural strength and water resistance, their uses as building materials are expected.
16257907	The mature embryos of a Japonica rice, Guanglingxiangnuo, were used for the study on optimization of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Several factors affecting the transformation were investigated and a suitable transformation system was set up. For this transformation system, the HRM medium, based on the MS medium, was suitable for inducing callus from rice mature embryos. The suitable time span of initial culture in this medium was 7-8 days before co-culturing with Agrobacterium and suitable medium for selection was CC medium. Using this transformation system, the Metr gene was introduced into Guanglingxiangnuo, and many transgenic plants were obtained. Most of these transgenic rice plants were confirmed by PCR technique and basta resistance, indicating the T-DNA had been integrated into the genome of transgenic rice plants.
16258238	This study was carried out to identify a high-resolution marker for a gene conferring resistance to brown planthopper (BPH) biotype 1, using japonica type resistant lines. Bulked segregant analyses were conducted using 520 RAPD primers to identify RAPD fragments linked to the BPH resistance gene. Eleven RAPDs were shown to be polymorphic amplicons between resistant and susceptible progeny. One of these primers, OPE 18, which amplified a 923 bp band tightly linked to resistance, was converted into a sequence-tagged-site (STS) marker. The STS marker, BpE18-3, was easily detectable as a dominant band with tight linkage (3.9cM) to Bph1. It promises to be useful as a marker for assisted selection of resistant progeny in backcross breeding programs to introgress the resistance gene into elite japonica cultivars.
16258250	Alpha-expansins are bound to the cell wall of plants and can be solubilized with an extraction buffer containing 1 M NaCl. Localization of alpha-expansins in the cell wall was confirmed by immunogold labeling and electron microscopy. The subcellular localization of vegetative beta-expansins has not yet been studied. Using antibodies specific for OsEXPB3, a vegetative beta-expansin of rice (Oryza sativa L.), we found that OsEXPB3 is tightly bound to the cell wall and, unlike alpha-expansins, cannot be solubilized with extraction buffer containing 1 M NaCl. OsEXPB3 protein could only be extracted with buffer containing SDS. The subcellular localization of the OsEXPB3 protein was confirmed by immunogold labeling and electron microscopy. Gold particles were mainly distributed over the primary cell walls. Immunohistochemistry showed that OsEXPB3 is present in all regions of the coleoptile and root tissues tested.
16260426	The purpose of this study was to assess the lipid-lowering effect of Monascus purpureus Went rice on serum lipids in patients with hyperlipidemia, and to assess its safety by reporting adverse events and clinical laboratory measurements. This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. In all, 79 patients (aged 23-65 years) with a mean baseline low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level of 5.28 mmol/l (203.9 mg/dl) received a twice daily dose of placebo or Monascus purpureus Went rice (600 mg) for 8 weeks. At week 8, Monascus purpureus Went rice therapy reduced LDL-C by 27.7%, total cholesterol by 21.5%, triglycerides by 15.8% and apolipoprotein B by 26.0%. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I levels were increased by 0.9 and 3.4% respectively (not significant). No patient in the Monascus purpureus Went rice treatment group had an alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or creatine phosphokinase (CPK) measurement that was > or = 3 times the upper limit of normal at week 4 and week 8. Monascus purpureus Went rice significantly reduced LDL-C, total cholesterol, triglycerides and apolipoprotein B levels, and was well tolerated in patients with hyperlipidemia. However, this study only provides data from an 8-week trial and long-term safety and efficacy data are needed.
16260473	The application of a new gene-based strategy for sequencing the wheat mitochondrial genome shows its structure to be a 452 528 bp circular molecule, and provides nucleotide-level evidence of intra-molecular recombination. Single, reciprocal and double recombinant products, and the nucleotide sequences of the repeats that mediate their formation have been identified. The genome has 55 genes with exons, including 35 protein-coding, 3 rRNA and 17 tRNA genes. Nucleotide sequences of seven wheat genes have been determined here for the first time. Nine genes have an exon-intron structure. Gene amplification responsible for the production of multicopy mitochondrial genes, in general, is species-specific, suggesting the recent origin of these genes. About 16, 17, 15, 3.0 and 0.2% of wheat mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) may be of genic (including introns), open reading frame, repetitive sequence, chloroplast and retro-element origin, respectively. The gene order of the wheat mitochondrial gene map shows little synteny to the rice and maize maps, indicative that thorough gene shuffling occurred during speciation. Almost all unique mtDNA sequences of wheat, as compared with rice and maize mtDNAs, are redundant DNA. Features of the gene-based strategy are discussed, and a mechanistic model of mitochondrial gene amplification is proposed.
16261349	A fine physical map of the rice (Oryza sativa spp. Japonica var. Nipponbare) chromosome 5 with bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) and PI-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) clones was constructed through integration of 280 sequenced BAC/PAC clones and 232 sequence tagged site/expressed sequence tag markers with the use of fingerprinted contig data of the Nipponbare genome. This map consists of five contigs covering 99% of the estimated chromosome size (30.08 Mb). The four physical gaps were estimated at 30 and 20 kb for gaps 1-3 and gap 4, respectively. We have submitted 42.2-Mb sequences with 29.8 Mb of nonoverlapping sequences to public databases. BAC clones corresponding to telomere and centromere regions were confirmed by BAC-fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on a pachytene chromosome. The genetically centromeric region at 54.6 cM was covered by a minimum tiling path spanning 2.1 Mb with no physical gaps. The precise position of the centromere was revealed by using three overlapping BAC/PACs for approximately 150 kb. In addition, FISH results revealed uneven chromatin condensation around the centromeric region at the pachytene stage. This map is of use for positional cloning and further characterization of the rice functional genomics.
16261540	An improved simulation model (PCPF-1) has been evaluated for the prediction of the fate of mefenacet in an experimental paddy field. This model simulates the fate and transport of pesticide in paddy water and the top 1 cm of paddy soil. Observed concentrations of mefenacet in the paddy water and the surface soil exponentially decreased from their maximum concentrations of 0.70 mg litre(-1) and 11.3 mg kg(-1), respectively. Predicted mefenacet concentrations both in the water and surface soil were in excellent agreement with those measured during the first 2 weeks after herbicide application, but concentrations in paddy water were appreciably overestimated thereafter. The model simulated mefenacet losses through runoff, percolation and degradation to be respectively 41.9%, 6.4% and 57.3% of applied, and the mass balance error was about -6%. The model simulation implied that drainage and seepage control, especially shortly after application when herbicide concentrations are high, is essential for preventing pesticide losses from paddy fields. In focusing on pesticide concentrations in this early period the PCPF-1 model can be a beneficial tool for risk assessment of pesticide losses and in the evaluation of agricultural management for reducing pesticide pollution associated with paddy rice production.
16261998	The Japanese school lunch system, which has over 100 y of history, has gained world attention for its well-developed and steady system, healthy Japanese-style menus including rice, and educational programs utilizing the school lunch system. Meanwhile, risk factors of health among students have been continuously worsening for the past dozen years or so. Therefore, Japan had hastened to develop better educational programs utilizing the school lunch and nutritional teachers. Under such circumstances, the Japanese Diet passed a bill to amend the School Education Law (hereinafter called the Amendment) which includes the establishment of an educational system by nutrition teachers in May, 2004. This system will be enforced in April, 2005. This system by nutrition teachers in Japan is well organized in both the legal and administrative senses and is attracting domestic and international attention as an example of an educational measure to improve the dietary life of students. The reason for this article in English is the additional intention of enlightening other countries by showing the political promotion problems of educational administration agencies, educational contents of nutrition teachers and some issues of the new educational system by nutrition teachers.
16262059	The study with 25 two-line hybrid rice strains showed that their water retaining capacity was different with their combinations. On the whole, the water content in leaf and stem-sheath decreased during heading-grain filling stage, while that in panicle increased first and then decreased, with a peak at 7th day after heading. Stem-sheath was the main organ for water retaining. The correlation of panicle yield with both leaf and stem-sheath water content was positive at the 1st day after heading but became negative later, and that with whole stem-plant water content was positive after heading. The chlorophyll content of the two-line hybrids increased first and then decreased, with a peak at the 7th day after heading. Comparing with normal rice (male parent), the chlorophyll content of most two-line hybrids was lower, and the decreasing rate was faster than that of normal rice after heading. For two-line hybrid rice breeding, it should preferentially consider to select those hybrids which have a clearer dominance of plant water retaining capacity and a higher chlorophyll content at earlier and middle heading-grain filling stage, and an obvious dry matter transportation from leaf and stem-sheath at later heading-grain filling stage. For two-line hybrid rice planting, it should not only pay attention to the supply of water and nutrients, especially nitrogen at earlier and middle heading-grain filling stage, but also control nitrogen and water in time to prevent leaf green clinging and to promote dry matter transportation from leaf and stem-sheath to grain at later heading-grain filling stage.
16262063	With Free-Air CO2 Enrichment(FACE) technique, this paper studied the root activity and amino acid(aa) synthesis of rice (Oryza sativa)at low N(LN, 150 kgN x hm(-2)) and normal N(NN, 250 kgN x hm(-2)) under ambient air and elevated atmospheric CO2 (Ambient + 200 micromol x mol(-1)). Under elevated CO2, the xylem exudates per hill changed little, while the xylem exudates per stem declined by 1.4% - 21.7% as the result of greater tiller numbers. At tillering and heading stages, elevated CO2 increased aa N/inorganic N in xylem exudates by 11.1% - 143.1%, but did not affect the aa concentration in xylem exudates and the total amount of aa in roots significantly. However, at 35 days after heading, the aa N/inorganic N ratio decreased by 38.1% (LN) and 29.2% (NN) under elevated CO2. FACE also declined the aa concentration in xylem exudates by 34.0% (LN) and 44.7% (NN), and the total amount of aa by 50.8% (LN) and 40.0% (NN), which meant the retarded capability of aa synthesis in roots. N amendment led to a decrease of aa N/inorganic N in xylem exudates by 19.5% (Ambient) and 36.8% (FACE) at heading stage, as the result of unaffected aa and increased inorganic N concentration. There existed a significantly antagonistical CO2 x N interaction on aa N/inorganic N at heading stage.
16262065	This paper studied the variation of the temporal and spatial niches of rice sheath blight-causing Rhizoctonia solani under spraying fungicide. The results showed that between fungicide treatments and control, the spatial niche breadth of Rhizoctonia solani was different, while its temporal niche breadth was similar. The spatial niche breadth of Rhizoctonia solani was 0.5240 when spraying fungicide at booting and full heading stages, 0.5742 at booting and milkfilling stages, and 0.8577 at tillering stage, while the control was 0.8563. Spraying fungicide had little effect on temporal niche breath. The spatial niche breath, percentage of diseased leaves and sheathes, index of disease, and control effect all suggested that spraying fungicide two times in rice growth period was better than spraying it one time. Spraying fungicide at booting and full heading stages and at booting stage and milkfilling stages had the best effects. Fungicide could not only narrow the spatial niche breadth, limit the spread of Rhizoctonia solani on top leaves which were important for the yield, but also narrow the temporal niche breadth, limit the spread of Rhizoctonia solani during the yield formation period of rice. But, spraying fungicide only changed the distribution of the fungus niches and narrowed the niches during rice yield formation period, with no changes in the whole niches of Rhizoctonia solani.
16262081	Soil phosphorus (P) deficiency is a major yield-limiting factor in rice production. Employing 526 rice landrace accessions from 5 rice-planting regions and 16 prefectures in Yunnan Province, this paper studied their P-deficiency tolerance characteristics by comparing the relative plant dry weight under acid red soil condition. The results showed that Northwest Yunnan cold highland japonica rice-planting region was most abundant in P-deficiency tolerance core collection of indica, and there was no significant difference in japonica among five ecological zones of rice landraces. Nujiang, Lijiang, Dehong, Wenshan, Xishuangbana and Yuxi were most abundant in P-deficiency tolerance core collection of indica, and Lijiang, Wenshan and Chuxiong were most abundant in P-deficiency tolerance core collection of japonica. Indica had a higher P-deficiency tolerance than japonica. The P-deficiency tolerance of rice was significantly related with its genetic diversity, rice breeding and acid red soils.
16262715	The rice SLR1 (SLENDER RICE 1) gene encodes a DELLA protein that belongs to a subfamily of the GRAS protein superfamily and that functions as a repressor of gibberellin (GA) signaling. Based on the constitutive GA response phenotype of slr1 mutants, SLR1 has been thought to be the sole DELLA-type protein suppressing GA signals in rice. However, in rice genome databases we identified two sequences homologous to SLR1: SLR1-like1 and -2 (SLRL1 and -2). SLRL1 and SLRL2 contain regions with high similarity to the C-terminal conserved domains in SLR1, but lack the N-terminal conserved region of the DELLA proteins. The expression of SLRL1 was positively regulated by GA at the mRNA level and occurred preferentially in reproductive organs, whereas SLRL2 was moderately expressed in mature leaf organs and was not affected by GA. Transformation of SLRL1 into the slr1 mutant rescued the slender phenotype of this mutant. Moreover, overexpression of SLRL1 in normal rice plants induced a dwarf phenotype with an increased level of OsGA20ox2 gene expression and diminished the GA-induced shoot elongation, suggesting that SLRL1 acts as a repressor of GA signaling. Consistent with the fact that SLRL1 does not have a DELLA domain, which is essential for degradation of DELLA proteins, a level of SLRL1 protein was not degraded by application of gibberellic acid. However, the repressive activity of SLRL1 against GA signaling was much weaker than a truncated SLR1 lacking the DELLA domain. Based on these characteristics of SLRL1, the functional roles of SLRL1 in GA signaling in rice are discussed.
16263700	Male reproductive development in rice is very sensitive to various forms of environmental stresses including low temperature. A few days of cold treatment (<20 degrees C) at the young microspore stage induce severe pollen sterility and thus large grain yield reductions. To investigate this phenomenon, anther proteins at the early stages of microspore development, with or without cold treatment at 12 degrees C, were extracted, separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and compared. The cold-sensitive cultivar Doongara and the relatively cold-tolerant cultivar HSC55 were used. The abundance of 37 anther proteins was changed more than 2-fold after 1, 2, and 4 days of cold treatment in cv. Doongara. Among them, one protein was newly induced, 32 protein spots were up-regulated, and four protein spots were down-regulated. Of these 37 protein spots, we identified two anther-specific proteins (putative lipid transfer protein and Osg6B) and a calreticulin that were down-regulated and a cystine synthase, a beta-6 subunit of the 20 S proteasome, an H protein of the glycine cleavage system, cytochrome c oxidase subunit VB, an osmotin protein homologue, a putative 6-phosphogluconolactonase, a putative adenylate kinase, a putative cysteine proteinase inhibitor, ribosomal protein S12E, a caffeoyl-CoA O-methyltransferase, and a monodehydroascorbate reductase that were up-regulated. Identification of these proteins is available upon request. Accumulation of these proteins did not vary greatly after cold treatment in panicles of cv. Doongara or in the anthers of the cv. HSC55. The newly induced protein named Oryza sativa cold-induced anther protein (OsCIA) was identified as an unknown protein. The OsCIA protein was detected in panicles, leaves, and seedling tissues under normal growth conditions. Quantitative real time RT-PCR analysis of OsCIA mRNA expression showed no significant change between low temperature-treated and untreated plants. A possible regulatory role for the newly induced protein is proposed.
16263903	Zinc (Zn) is an essential element for the normal growth of plants but information is scarce on the mechanisms whereby Zn is transported in rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants. Four distinct genes, OsZIP4, OsZIP5, OsZIP6, and OsZIP7 that exhibit sequence similarity to the rice ferrous ion transporter, OsIRT1, were isolated. Microarray and northern blot analysis revealed that OsZIP4 was highly expressed under conditions of Zn deficiency in roots and shoots. Real-time-PCR revealed that the OsZIP4 transcripts were more abundant than those of OsZIP1 or OsZIP3 in Zn-deficient roots and shoots. OsZIP4 complemented a Zn-uptake-deficient yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant, Deltazrt1,Deltazrt2, indicating that OsZIP4 is a functional transporter of Zn. OsZIP4-synthetic green fluorescent protein (sGFP) fusion protein was transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells localized to the plasma membrane. In situ hybridization analysis revealed that OsZIP4 in Zn-deficient rice was expressed in shoots and roots, especially in phloem cells. Furthermore, OsZIP4 transcripts were detected in the meristem of Zn-deficient roots and shoots. These results suggested that OsZIP4 is a Zn transporter that may be responsible for the translocation of Zn within rice plants.
16263911	Experimental evidence is presented to show that the 18O enrichment in the leaf biomass and the mean (time-averaged) transpiration rate are positively correlated in groundnut and rice genotypes. The relationship between oxygen isotope enrichment and stomatal conductance (g(s)) was determined by altering g(s) through ABA and subsequently using contrasting genotypes of cowpea and groundnut. The Peclet model for the 18O enrichment of leaf water relative to the source water is able to predict the mean observed values well, while it cannot reproduce the full range of measured isotopic values. Further, it fails to explain the observed positive correlation between transpiration rate and 18O enrichment in leaf biomass. Transpiration rate is influenced by the prevailing environmental conditions besides the intrinsic genetic variability. As all the genotypes of both species experienced similar environmental conditions, the differences in transpiration rate could mostly be dependent on intrinsic g(s). Therefore, it appears that the delta18O of leaf biomass can be used as an effective surrogate for mean transpiration rate. Further, at a given vapour pressure difference, delta18O can serve as a measure of stomatal conductance as well.
16266740	On the basis of a large-scale survey with 269 sampling sites and a field experiment with 12 cultivars grown at 3 ecologically different locations, Cadmium (Cd) and lead (Pb) contamination in milled rice grains and its variation among different locations were investigated in the area of southeast China. The objective of this study was mainly to assess the present situation of Cd and Pb contamination in rice grains harvested locally and find out the variation of Cd and Pb background levels in rice grains among the diverse regional locations. The results showed that: a) Cd concentrations in milled rice grains ranged from trace (below 10 ng/g) to 340 ng/g, with the means of 81.4 ng/g (AM) and 55.2 ng/g (GM) for the 269 samples, whereas Pb concentrations ranged from trace (below 10 ng/g) to 1136 ng/g, with the means of 113.5 ng/g (AM) and 51.0 ng/g (GM), respectively. High frequency was observed for both the Cd and Pb concentrations ranging from trace to 200 ng/g, with 95.9% for Cd and 84.8% for Pb, respectively. b) ANOVA for the AMs and GMs among 269 sampling sites indicated that there were significant differences among the different spatial locations in Cd or Pb concentrations. c) The Cd concentrations in milled rice grains were poorly correlated with Pb concentration among the 269 sampling sites surveyed, and no significant difference (P>0.05) in the AMs or GMs of Cd and Pb concentration was observed among different cities within a range of the same provinces, only with an exception for 1-2 provinces. d) Variance analysis of Cd, Pb concentrations for 12 rice cultivars grown in three locations showed that the great difference in coefficients of variation (CV) was observed both among cultivars grown in the same location and among locations of cultivars planted, in which locations showed much more contribution to the variation of Cd or Pb concentration in milled rice grains as compared with cultivars.
16267086	mRNA sequences and expressed sequence tags represent some of the most abundant experimental data for identifying genes and alternatively spliced products in metazoans. These transcript sequences are frequently studied by aligning them to a genomic sequence template. For existing programs, error-prone, polymorphic and cross-species data, as well as non-canonical splice sites, still present significant barriers to producing accurate, complete alignments. We took a novel approach to spliced alignment that meaningfully combined information from sequence similarity with that obtained from PSSM splice site models. Scoring systems were chosen to maximize their power of discrimination, and dynamic programming (DP) was employed to guarantee optimal solutions would be found. The resultant program, EXALIN, performed better than other popular tools tested under a wide range of conditions that included detection of micro-exons and human-mouse cross-species comparisons. For improved speed with only a marginal decrease in splice site prediction accuracy, EXALIN could perform limited DP guided by a result from BLASTN. The source code, binaries, scripts, scoring matrices and splice site models for human, mouse, rice and Caenorhabditis elegans utilized in this study are posted at http://blast.wustl.edu/exalin. The software (scripts, source code and binaries) is copyrighted but free for all to use.
16267395	The rice genome contains at least 28 EXPA (alpha-expansin) genes. We have obtained near full-length cDNAs from the previously uncharacterized genes. Analysis of these newly identified clones together with the 12 identified earlier showed that the EXPA genes contain up to two introns and encode proteins of 240 to 291 amino acid residues. The EXPA proteins contain three conserved motifs: eight cysteine residues at the N-terminus, four tryptophan residues at the C-terminus, and a histidine-phenylalanine-aspartate motif in the central region. EXPA proteins could be divided into six groups based on their sequence similarity. Most were strongly induced in two-day-old seedlings and in the roots of one-week-old plants. However, only 14 genes were expressed in the aboveground organs, and their patterns were quite diverse. Transcript levels of EXPA7, 14, 15, 18, 21, and 29 were greater in stems, while EXPA2, 4, 5, 6, and 16 were highly expressed in both stem and sheath but not in leaf blade. EXPA1 is leaf blade-preferential, and EXP9 is leaf sheath-preferential. Most of the root-expressed genes were more strongly expressed in the dividing zone. However, the Group 2 EXPA genes were also strongly expressed in both mature and dividing zones, while EXPA9 was preferentially expressed in the elongation zone. Fourteen EXPA genes were expressed in developing panicles, with some being expressed during most developmental stages, others only as the panicles matured. These diverse expression patterns of EXPA genes suggest that in general they have distinct roles in plant growth and development.
16268073	Amyloid cardiomyopathy is myocardial infiltrative disorder which mostly has been seen as the consequence of systemic amiloidosis. The diffuse global myocardial infiltration of nonfunctional amyloid displaces the contractile myocites giving rice to relaxation abnormality and diastolic dysfunction of restrictive or congestive type of both ventricles, but more frequently with right-sided congestion, while systolic left ventricular function deteriorates late in disease process. We report a patient with amyloid cardiomyopathy and nephrotic syndrome underlying primary amiloidosis. Our aim is to point out at echocardiographic assessment of diagnosis and prognosis of amyloid cardiomyopathy, which is proven by postmortal endomyocardial biopsy. The hallmark of echocardiographic diagnostics are the findings of the thickened ventricular and septal walls, small ventricular cavities, dilated atria with thickened interatrial septum and atrioventricular valves, and granular-sparkling and hyperrefractile myocardium. Doppler assessment diagnostically gives us the insight in restrictive physiology of both ventricles, and the inverse relation of the left ventricular thickness and voltage on the ECG is high specific. Echocardiographic evaluation of mean left ventricular thickness in amyloid cardiomyopathy is very important prognostic parameter. so that if it is > or =15 mm, median survival is 0.4 years, whereas in our patient with median thickness of 2.76 cm the survival was only three months. The advanced diastolic dysfunction of the left ventricle with an increased transmitral E/A ratio and deceleration time of < or =150 ms is strong predictor of cardiac death. In this case of restrictive transmitral flow E/A was 1.7 and DT 100 ms and they were ominous prognostic signs of survival.
16268181	The International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC) has promoted surveys in asthma and allergic diseases using standardized methodologies including validated questionnaires. Many items in the questionnaires have also been implied in the overweight and obesity etiology. To describe the factors associated with obesity in subjects of 6-7 years and 13-14 years in the ISAAC survey in Mexico City. Data were obtained from questionnaires of children participating in a phase 3b ISAAC survey. Logistic regression was used to determine the obesity risks factors. The factors related to obesity were weekly consumption of meat (+, positive relationship), vegetables, pasta, rice (+) and quartiles of birth weight (+) in boys of 6-7 years. Having suffered eczema at any time, weekly consumption of fruit, pasta, butter, nuts, potato (+), fast food (+), daily TV viewing (+) in girls of 6-7years. Having suffered eczema at any time, weekly consumption of pasta (+), butter, potato, weekly physical exercise in boys of 13-14 years; weekly consumption of pasta, margarine, milk, fast food (+), currently smoking in girls of 13-14 years. There were not common factor patterns for the different groups, birth weight, fast food, TV viewing and lack of exercise have been previously related to pediatric obesity. Asthma was not associated with a higher risk of obesity but medical history of eczema was associated with lower risk of obesity in the 6-7 years girls, and 13-14 years boys. The present study provides the bases for future epidemiological studies and gives some clues on possible public health actions.
16268569	[reaction: see text] The ustiloxins are a family of heterodetic cyclopeptides that have been isolated from the water extracts of false smut balls on the panicles of rice plants caused by the fungus Ustilaginoidea virens. A concise total synthesis of ustiloxin D has been achieved via an unprecedented ethynyl aziridine ring-opening of phenol derivatives. The longest linear sequence of the synthesis is 15 steps from commercially available compounds.
16269768	Rhizobia, the root-nodule endosymbionts of leguminous plants, also form natural endophytic associations with roots of important cereal plants. Despite its widespread occurrence, much remains unknown about colonization of cereals by rhizobia. We examined the infection, dissemination, and colonization of healthy rice plant tissues by four species of gfp-tagged rhizobia and their influence on the growth physiology of rice. The results indicated a dynamic infection process beginning with surface colonization of the rhizoplane (especially at lateral root emergence), followed by endophytic colonization within roots, and then ascending endophytic migration into the stem base, leaf sheath, and leaves where they developed high populations. In situ CMEIAS image analysis indicated local endophytic population densities reaching as high as 9 x 10(10) rhizobia per cm3 of infected host tissues, whereas plating experiments indicated rapid, transient or persistent growth depending on the rhizobial strain and rice tissue examined. Rice plants inoculated with certain test strains of gfp-tagged rhizobia produced significantly higher root and shoot biomass; increased their photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, transpiration velocity, water utilization efficiency, and flag leaf area (considered to possess the highest photosynthetic activity); and accumulated higher levels of indoleacetic acid and gibberellin growth-regulating phytohormones. Considered collectively, the results indicate that this endophytic plant-bacterium association is far more inclusive, invasive, and dynamic than previously thought, including dissemination in both below-ground and above-ground tissues and enhancement of growth physiology by several rhizobial species, therefore heightening its interest and potential value as a biofertilizer strategy for sustainable agriculture to produce the world's most important cereal crops.
16270217	A major quantitative trait locus (QTL), Qfhs.ndsu-3BS, for resistance to Fusarium head blight (FHB) in wheat has been identified and verified by several research groups. The objectives of this study were to construct a fine genetic map of this QTL region and to examine microcolinearity in the QTL region among wheat, rice, and barley. Two simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers (Xgwm533 and Xgwm493) flanking this QTL were used to screen for recombinants in a population of 3,156 plants derived from a single F(7) plant heterozygous for the Qfhs.ndsu-3BS region. A total of 382 recombinants were identified, and they were genotyped with two more SSR markers and eight sequence-tagged site (STS) markers. A fine genetic map of the Qfhs.ndsu-3BS region was constructed and spanned 6.3 cM. Based on replicated evaluations of homozygous recombinant lines for Type II FHB resistance, Qfhs.ndsu-3BS, redesignated as Fhb1, was placed into a 1.2-cM marker interval flanked by STS3B-189 and STS3B-206. Primers of STS markers were designed from wheat expressed sequence tags homologous to each of six barley genes expected to be located near this QTL region. A comparison of the wheat fine genetic map and physical maps of rice and barley revealed inversions and insertions/deletions. This suggests a complex microcolinearity among wheat, rice, and barley in this QTL region.
16271428	For many practical problems in environmental management, information about soil heavy metals, relative to threshold values that may be of practical importance is needed at unsampled sites. The Hangzhou-Jiaxing-Huzhou (HJH) Plain has always been one of the most important rice production areas in Zhejiang province, China, and the soil heavy metal concentration is directly related to the crop quality and ultimately the health of people. Four hundred and fifty soil samples were selected in topsoil in HJH Plain to characterize the spatial variability of Cu, Zn, Pb, Cr and Cd. Ordinary kriging and lognormal kriging were carried out to map the spatial patterns of heavy metals and disjunctive kriging was used to quantify the probability of heavy metal concentrations higher than their guide value. Cokriging method was used to minimize the sampling density for Cu, Zn and Cr. The results of this study could give insight into risk assessment of environmental pollution and decision-making for agriculture.
16271791	Blasticidin S (BS) is an aminoacylnucleoside antibiotic used for the control of rice blast disease. To establish a new cereal transformation system, we constructed a visual marker gene designated gfbsd, encoding an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) fused to the N-terminus of BS deaminase (BSD). It was cloned into a monocot expression vector and introduced into rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) calluses by microprojectile bombardment. Three to five weeks after the bombardment, multicellular clusters emitting bright-green EGFP fluorescence were obtained with 10 microg/ml BS, which is not sufficient to completely inhibit the growth of non-transformed tissues. Fluorescent sectors (approximately 2mm in diameter) excised from the calluses regenerated into transgenic plantlets (approximately 10 cm in height) as early as 51 (average 77+/-11) days after the bombardment. The visual antibiotic selection was more efficient and required less time than the bialaphos selection with bar. In addition, the small size (1.1 kb) of gfbsd is preferable for construction of transformation vectors. This new marker gene will make a significant contribution in molecular genetic studies of rice plants.
16272412	Genes interacting with seed developmental environments control primary dormancy. To understand how a multigenic system evolved to adapt to the changing environments in weedy rice, we evaluated genetic components of three dormancy QTL in a synchronized nondormant genetic background. Two genetically identical populations segregating for qSD1, qSD7-1, and qSD12 were grown under greenhouse and natural conditions differing in temperature, relative humidity, and light intensity during seed development. Low temperatures tended to enhance dormancy in both conditions. However, genotypes responded to the environments divergently so that two populations displayed similar distributions for germination. Additive and/or dominance effects of the three loci explained approximately 90% of genetic variances and their epistases accounted for the remainder in each environment. The qSD1 and qSD7-1 main effects were increased, while the qSD12 additive effect was decreased by relatively low temperatures. Both gene main and epistatic effects were involved in G x E interactions, which in magnitude were greater than environmental main effect. The divergent responses of dormancy genes observed in this simple multigenic system presumably have selective advantages in natural populations adapted to changing environments and hence represent a genetic mechanism stabilizing the dormancy level of weedy rice ripened in different seasons or temperature regimes.
16272419	Drought tolerance (DT) and drought avoidance (DA) are two major mechanisms in drought resistance of higher plants. In this study, the genetic bases of DT and DA at reproductive stage in rice were analyzed using a recombinant inbred line population from a cross between an indica lowland and a tropical japonica upland cultivar. The plants were grown individually in PVC pipes and two cycles of drought stress were applied to individual plants with unstressed plants as the control. A total of 21 traits measuring fitness, yield, and the root system were investigated. Little correlation of relative yield traits with potential yield, plant size, and root traits was detected, suggesting that DT and DA were well separated in the experiment. A genetic linkage map consisting of 245 SSR markers was constructed for mapping QTL for these traits. A total of 27 QTL were resolved for 7 traits of relative performance of fitness and yield, 36 QTL for 5 root traits under control, and 38 for 7 root traits under drought stress conditions, suggesting the complexity of the genetic bases of both DT and DA. Only a small portion of QTL for fitness- and yield-related traits overlapped with QTL for root traits, indicating that DT and DA had distinct genetic bases.
16272428	Centromeres are sites of spindle attachment for chromosome segregation. During meiosis, recombination is absent at centromeres and surrounding regions. To understand the molecular basis for recombination suppression, we have comprehensively annotated the 3.5-Mb region that spans a fully sequenced rice centromere. Although transcriptional analysis showed that the 750-kb CENH3-containing core is relatively deficient in genes, the recombination-free region differs little in gene density from flanking regions that recombine. Likewise, the density of transposable elements is similar between the recombination-free region and flanking regions. We also measured levels of histone H4 acetylation and histone H3 methylation at 176 genes within the 3.5-Mb span. Active genes showed enrichment of H4 acetylation and H3K4 dimethylation as expected, including genes within the core. Our inability to detect sequence or histone modification features that distinguish recombination-free regions from flanking regions that recombine suggest that recombination suppression is an epigenetic feature of centromeres maintained by the assembly of CENH3-containing nucleosomes within the core. CENH3-containing centrochromatin does not appear to be distinguished by a unique combination of H3 and H4 modifications. Rather, the varied distribution of histone modifications might reflect the composition and abundance of sequence elements that inhabit centromeric DNA.
16272430	A short exposure to light in the middle of the night causes inhibition of flowering in short-day plants. This phenomenon is called night break (NB) and has been used extensively as a tool to study the photoperiodic control of flowering for many years. However, at the molecular level, very little is known about this phenomenon. In rice (Oryza sativa), 10 min of light exposure in the middle of a 14-h night caused a clear delay in flowering. A single NB strongly suppressed the mRNA of Hd3a, a homolog of Arabidopsis thaliana FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), whereas the mRNAs of OsGI and Hd1 were not affected. The NB effect on Hd3a mRNA was maximal in the middle of the 14-h night. The phyB mutation abolished the NB effect on flowering and Hd3a mRNA, indicating that the NB effect was mediated by phytochrome B. Because expression of the other FT-like genes was very low and not appreciably affected by NB, our results strongly suggest that the suppression of Hd3a mRNA is the principal cause of the NB effect on flowering in rice.
16274981	White rice husk ash (RHA), an agriculture waste containing crystalline tridymite and alpha-cristobalite, was used as a silica source for zeolite Beta synthesis. The crystallization of zeolite Beta from RHA at 150 degrees C in the presence of tetraethylammonium hydroxide was monitored by XRD, FTIR and (29)Si MAS NMR techniques. It was found that zeolite Beta started to form after 12h and the complete crystallization of zeolite Beta phase was achieved after 2d. XRD, (29)Si MAS NMR and solid yield studies indicate that the transformation mechanism of silica present in RHA to zeolite Beta involves dissolution of the ash, formation of an amorphous aluminosilicate after 6h of crystallization, followed by dissolution in the mother liquor and final transformation to pure zeolite Beta crystals.
16275657	Calcium is an essential macronutrient for plants and functions in signal transduction. Regulation of the cytosolic calcium concentration is required for normal cell growth. In calcium homeostasis in plant cells, Ca(2+)/H(+) exchangers are involved in Ca(2+) compartmentalization into intracellular compartments. Here, we examine the intracellular localization of a rice Ca(2+)/H(+) exchanger, OsCAX1a, fused to a green fluorescent protein and transiently expressed in onion epidermis and rice protoplasts. Green fluorescence was observed in the vacuolar membrane. After sucrose gradient centrifugation of the homogenate of rice plants, OsCAX1a was detected in the same fraction as the vacuolar membrane aquaporin gamma-TIP. We then quantified the mRNA and protein of OsCAX1a in plants grown with metal ions. OsCAX1a mRNA was induced in roots by high concentrations of Ca(2+). The protein level in shoots was also increased in the presence of high concentrations of Ca(2+). Furthermore, transgenic rice plants transformed with the OsCAX1a promoter fused to beta-glucuronidase showed reporter expression in vascular bundles, stomata, trichomes, steles, flowers, embryos and aleurone layers. In the case of stomata and trichomes, transcription of OsCAX1a was particularly high in aged organs. These results suggest that OsCAX1a transports Ca(2+) into vacuoles and is involved in Ca(2+) homeostasis in cells that suffer from high concentrations of Ca(2+).
16275658	Activator/Dissociation (Ac/Ds) transposon mutagenesis is a widely used tool for gene identification; however, several reports on silencing of the Ac/Ds element in starter lines and in stable transposants question the applicability of such an approach in later generations. We have performed a systematic analysis on various aspects of the silencing phenomenon in rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare). High somatic and germinal transposition frequencies observed in earlier generations were maintained as late as T4 and T5 generations; thus the propagation of parental lines did not induce transposon silencing. Moreover, the stably transposed Ds element was active even at the F5 generation, since Ac could remobilize the Ds element as indicated by the footprint analysis of several revertants. Expression of the bar gene was monitored from F3 to F6 generations in >1,000 lines. Strikingly, substantial transgene silencing was not observed in any of the generations tested. We analyzed the timing of transposition during rice development and provide evidence that Ds is transposed late after tiller formation. The possibility, that the independent events could be the result of secondary transposition, was ruled out by analyzing potential footprints by reciprocal PCR. Our study validates the Ac/Ds system as a tool for large-scale mutagenesis in rice, since the Ds elements were active in the starter and insertion lines even in the later generations. We propose that harvesting rice seeds using their panicles is an alternative way to increase the number of independent transposants due to post-tillering transposition.
16275670	In this study, the uptake of Na+ into the cytosol of rice (Oryza sativa L. cvs Pokkali and BRRI Dhan29) protoplasts was measured using the acetoxy methyl ester of the fluorescent sodium-binding benzofuran isopthalate, SBFI-AM, and fluorescence microscopy. By means of inhibitor analyses the mechanisms for uptake and sequestration of Na+ in the salt-sensitive indica rice cv. BRRI Dhan29 and in the salt-tolerant indica rice cv. Pokkali were detected. Less Na+ was taken up into the cytosol of Pokkali than into BRRI Dhan29. The results indicate that K+-selective channels do not contribute to the Na+ uptake in Pokkali, whereas they are the major pathways for Na+ uptake in BRRI Dhan29 along with non-selective cation channels. However, non-selective cation channels seem to be the main pathways for Na+ uptake in Pokkali. Protoplasts from Pokkali leaves took up Na+ only transiently in the presence of extracellular Na+ at 5-100 mM. Therefore, it is likely that the protoplasts have a mechanism for fast extrusion of Na+ out of the cytoplasm. Experiments with protoplasts pretreated with NH4NO3 and NH4VO3 suggest that the salt-tolerant Pokkali extrudes Na+ mainly into the vacuole. After cultivation of both cultivars in the presence of 10 or 50 mM NaCl for 72 h, the isolated protoplasts from Pokkali took up less Na+ than the control protoplasts. The results suggest that the salt-tolerance in Pokkali depends on reduced uptake through K+-selective channels and a fast extrusion of Na+ into the vacuoles.
16275672	A comprehensive analysis of the transcript levels of genes which encode starch-synthesis enzymes is fundamental for the assessment of the function of each enzyme and the regulatory mechanism for starch biosynthesis in source and sink organs. Using quantitative real-time RT-PCR, an examination was made of the expression profiles of 27 rice genes encoding six classes of enzymes, i.e. ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), starch synthase, starch branching enzyme, starch debranching enzyme, starch phosphorylase, and disproportionating enzyme in developing seeds and leaves. The modes of gene expression were tissue- and developmental stage-specific. Four patterns of expression in the seed were identified: group 1 genes, which are expressed very early in grain formation and are presumed to be involved in the construction of fundamental cell machineries, de novo synthesis of glucan primers, and initiation of starch granules; group 2 genes, which are highly expressed throughout endosperm development; group 3 genes, which have transcripts that are low at the onset but which rise steeply at the start of starch synthesis in the endosperm and are thought to play essential roles in endosperm starch synthesis; and group 4 genes, which are expressed scantly, mainly at the onset of grain development, and might be involved in synthesis of starch in the pericarp. The methodology also revealed that the defect in the cytosolic AGPase small subunit2b (AGPS2b) transcription from the AGPS2 gene in endosperm sharply enhanced the expressions of endosperm and leaf plastidial AGPS1, the endosperm cytosolic AGPase large subunit2 (AGPL2), and the leaf plastidial AGPL1.
16276912	Exserohilium monoseras is a potential agent for barnyardgrass (Echinochlao crus-galli) control. This study was to evaluate the genetic diversity of this fungus with 17 strains isolated from different rice growing regions of China by the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD). Among 25 arbitrary primers, 20 primers could get enough amplified bands for all the strains. A total 239 products were amplified. Polymorphic bands were 95.8% of the total products. The 17 strains could be identified based on RAPD fingerprinting established in this study. Genetic distance calculation and cluster analysis resulted in great genetic variation among the strains. The genetic similarity was related with the morphology and the pathogenicity of the strains. The results showed that RAPD maker could be applied in the utilization and the identification of weed pathogen resources.
16277378	We report the development of an oligonucleotide microarray for the simultaneous detection of six important cereal food plant species from the Poaceae based on the chloroplast trnL intron sequence. We used universal primers to amplify the trnL intron from wheat, rye, barley, oat, rice, and maize, followed by a cyclic labeling of oligonucleotides probes and subsequent hybridization to an oligonucleotide microarray. In single taxon analyses, positive signals were produced with a high signal-to-noise ratio. The assay also enabled the analysis of mixed samples. The results obtained for real food samples were in agreement with the ingredient labels, but positive results for grains not declared on the ingredients list were observed in three out of 10 samples, which indicates that the final products and/or the declared ingredients were probably botanically impure or contaminated. The combination of the sensitivity of a universal polymerase chain reaction with the specificity of the labeling reaction allows this protocol to be applied in routine analyses of food samples, as demonstrated by successful analysis of processed composite food products.
16277402	The effect of annealing temperature (Ta) on the rheological behavior of 10 wt % rice starch suspension was investigated by the dynamic viscoelasticity, the differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and the amount of leached out amylose and the swelling ratio of starch suspension. The rheological behaviors of the annealed samples are classified into three types in terms of Ta: Ta1, 48 and 55 degrees C, which are much lower than the gelatinization temperature, Tgel (=62 degrees C); Ta2, 58, 60, and 62 degrees C, which are almost the same as Tgel; and Ta3, 65, 68, 70, and 73 degrees C, which are much higher than Tgel. For the samples annealed at Ta2, the onset temperature of the storage and the loss moduli, G' and G'', increased with increasing T(a), and G' and G" in the temperature range from 65 to 90 degrees C gradually increased though smaller than those for the nonannealed sample, the control. This can be understood by the partial gelatinization; i.e., the leached out amylose prevents further amylose from leaching out. The rheological property of the samples annealed at Ta1 is not so different from that of the control, and the samples annealed at Ta3 are almost gelatinized. The rheological behavior of starch suspension can be controlled by Ta.
16277416	We introduced the human cytochrome P450 gene CYP2B6 into rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare), and the CYP2B6-expressing rice plants became more tolerant to various herbicides than nontransgenic Nipponbare rice plants. In particular, CYP2B6 rice plants grown in soil showed tolerance to the chloroacetanilide herbicides alachlor and metolachlor. We evaluated the degradation of metolachlor by CYP2B6 rice plants to confirm the metabolic activity of the introduced CYP2B6. Although both CYP2B6 and nontransgenic Nipponbare rice plants could decrease the amount of metolachlor in plant tissue and culture medium, CYP2B6 rice plants could remove much greater amounts. In a greenhouse, the ability of CYP2B6 rice plants to remove metolachlor was confirmed in large-scale experiments, in which these plants appeared able to decrease residual quantities of metolachlor in water and soil.
16277417	Semnostachya menglaensis Tsui (Acanthaceae) is a rare plant indigenous to Mengla in the tropical rainforest of the Xishuangbanna prefecture in the south of Yunnan province, People's Republic of China. When the leaves are crushed, a characteristic smell of basmati rice or pandan leaves develops. Their hexane extract, prepared from a specimen growing in a greenhouse of the botanical garden of the Kunming Institute of Botany, contains 1-(3,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2-pyridyl)-1-propanone (41.2%) and 1-(1,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2-pyridyl)-1-propanone (37.5%) which constitute the main part of the volatile compounds. Minor components are 1-(3,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2-pyridyl)-1-ethanone (4.9%), 1-(1,4,5,6-tetrahydro-2-pyridyl)-1-ethanone (4.8%), 1-(2-piperidyl)-1-propanone (5.2%), 1-octen-3-ol (3.2%), 1-octen-3-one (1.9%), and 3-octanol and 1-(2-pyridyl)-1-propanone in trace amounts.
1627776	The carboxypeptidase gene from rice and corresponding cDNA clones were isolated. The Sal I 11.2 kb fragment of DNA cloned from a size-fractionated genome library contained eight introns and an open reading frame that encoded 500 amino acids (M(r) 55,445). The structure deduced for the carboxypeptidase from rice was very similar to those of type III serine carboxypeptidases from barley and wheat. The extent of homology of the amino acid sequence to that of these carboxypeptidases from barley and wheat was 92.3% and 87.2%, respectively. The accumulation of mRNA for the rice carboxypeptidase was conspicuous in germinating endosperms that contained aleurone layers, but levels were lower in leaves and roots. The abundance of the mRNA in endosperms was enhanced by gibberellic acid (GA) and accumulation of the mRNA was inhibited by abscisic acid (ABA). The rice gene for carboxypeptidase contained some pyrimidine boxes (C/TCTTTTC/T), in the 5' flanking region, which are a characteristic of a GA-responsive gene.
16277784	Despite intense discussion of the glycaemic index (GI) and glycaemic load (GL) concepts, data on the GI or GL levels in the diet of children are scarce. The present analysis determined trends in the levels of GI or GL of healthy children from 1990 to 2002 and examined the contribution of carbohydrate (CHO) sources to the overall GL, and the relationships of the GI and GL to the overall dietary quality. The analysis includes three cohorts of participants from the Dortmund Nutritional and Anthropometrical Longitudinally Designed study, aged 7-8 years in 1990 (n 53), 1996 (n 46) and 2002 (n 56). A GI value was assigned to all CHO foods recorded over three consecutive days. In comparison with 1990, 7-8-year-old children in 2002 had slightly higher GI (56.5 v. 55.1 %; P=0.03) and GL (17.5 v. 16.7 g/MJ; P=0.04) levels. In all three time periods the combined contribution of the 'tolerated food groups' (i.e. sweets, soft drinks, cakes and cookies, and salty snacks) to the overall GL exceeded that of bread and rolls (1990, 31 v. 24 %; 1996, 29 v. 31 %; 2002, 28 v. 25 %). Conversely, rice and fried or mashed potatoes had only a minor impact. Children in the lowest GI tertile, but not those in the lowest GL tertile, had a better nutrient profile and a more favourable food choice. In conclusion, partial replacement of high-GI 'tolerated food groups' for low-GI foods would help to reverse the slight recent increases in GI and GL, and to improve the overall dietary quality of 7-8-year-old children.
16277791	Recent findings suggest that Western diets based on highly palatable foods are likely to be much less satiating than more traditional diets or those typical of less developed countries. In particular, some alternative crops (for example, buckwheat, oat, barley, spelt, rye, quinoa, amaranth) seem to be of great nutritional interest and to represent important recipes for healthier and typical regional foods. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effect on subsequent food intake and feelings of satiety of alternative oat bread, oat and buckwheat pasta and of quinoa as compared with their wheat counterparts and rice, respectively. Three different experiments (one specific for each alternative crop food) were conducted, all with a within-subjects design. The preloading paradigm strategy was used. Results showed that preload energy level influenced total energy intake (preload plus ad libitum test meal intake), larger preloads inducing more eating than smaller preloads. No effect of formulation was observed on energy intake, as the consumption of alternative crop formulations did not decrease the total energy intake as compared with that of the counterparts. Satiating efficiency indices (SEI) for alternative crop foods were higher with respect to traditional cereal foods. In particular, white bread was the least satisfying food (SEI =0.2) and the different time of consumption (for lunch or as a snack) did not affect energy intake. In conclusion, oat or buckwheat formulations, and also quinoa, may be exploited for their potential impact on eating behaviour, particularly considering they are good sources of functional substances.
16278301	Peptide immunotherapy using multiple predominant allergen-specific T cell epitopes is a safe and promising strategy for the control of type I allergy. In this study, we developed transgenic rice plants expressing mouse dominant T cell epitope peptides of Cry j I and Cry j II allergens of Japanese cedar pollen as a fusion protein with the soybean seed storage protein glycinin. Under the control of the rice seed storage protein glutelin GluB-1 promoter, the fusion protein was specifically expressed and accumulated in seeds at a level of 0.5% of the total seed protein. Oral feeding to mice of transgenic rice seeds expressing the T cell epitope peptides of Cry j I and Cry j II before systemic challenge with total protein of cedar pollen inhibited the development of allergen-specific serum IgE and IgG antibody and CD4(+) T cell proliferative responses. The levels of allergen-specific CD4(+) T cell-derived allergy-associated T helper 2 cytokine production of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 and histamine release in serum were significantly decreased. Moreover, the development of pollen-induced clinical symptoms was inhibited in our experimental sneezing mouse model. These results indicate the potential of transgenic rice seeds in production and mucosal delivery of allergen-specific T cell epitope peptides for the induction of oral tolerance to pollen allergens.
16278346	We have isolated phytochrome B (phyB) and phyC mutants from rice (Oryza sativa) and have produced all combinations of double mutants. Seedlings of phyB and phyB phyC mutants exhibited a partial loss of sensitivity to continuous red light (Rc) but still showed significant deetiolation responses. The responses to Rc were completely canceled in phyA phyB double mutants. These results indicate that phyA and phyB act in a highly redundant manner to control deetiolation under Rc. Under continuous far-red light (FRc), phyA mutants showed partially impaired deetiolation, and phyA phyC double mutants showed no significant residual phytochrome responses, indicating that not only phyA but also phyC is involved in the photoperception of FRc in rice. Interestingly, the phyB phyC double mutant displayed clear R/FR reversibility in the pulse irradiation experiments, indicating that both phyA and phyB can mediate the low-fluence response for gene expression. Rice is a short-day plant, and we found that mutation in either phyB or phyC caused moderate early flowering under the long-day photoperiod, while monogenic phyA mutation had little effect on the flowering time. The phyA mutation, however, in combination with phyB or phyC mutation caused dramatic early flowering.
16278694	To describe the pattern of meal glycaemic load of children in Hong Kong and to determine whether the meal glycaemic load is associated with childhood overweight. Dietary records (3-day) of 316 Hong Kong children aged 6-7 years were collected. Glycaemic load was calculated from the estimated weight (WT), carbohydrate content (%CHO) and glycaemic index (GI) of each food taken using the equation: (% CHO x GI x WT/100). The meal glycaemic load was then the sum of the glycaemic loads of all food taken in each meal. Logistic regression analyses were used to compare the average meal glycaemic load (of breakfast, lunch and dinner) and other dietary parameters between overweight children and normal-weight children. Breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks provided, respectively, 17, 29, 29 and 25% of the total glycaemic load in a day. White rice (excluding congee (rice porridge) and glutinous rice) contributed almost half of the total glycaemic load. Adjusted logistic regression showed that the meal glycaemic load was not significantly associated with childhood overweight after adjusting for parental obesity, birth weight, sleeping duration, mean energy intake and paternal smoking. Meal glycaemic load calculated from current diet was not an independent factor associated with childhood overweight in children aged 6-7 years. Our data suggested that modifying the type of rice/staple consumed and choosing low-GI snacks could have a major influence on the total meal glycaemic load of young Hong Kong children.
16279173	In this paper, we introduce a new statistical distribution for modeling non-Rayleigh amplitude statistics, which we have called the Rician inverse Gaussian (RiIG) distribution. It is a mixture of the Rice distribution and the inverse Gaussian distribution. The probability density function (pdf) is given in closed form as a function of three parameters. This makes the pdf very flexible in the sense that it may be fitted to a variety of shapes, ranging from the Rayleigh-shaped pdf to a noncentral chi2-shaped pdf. The theoretical basis of the new model is quite thoroughly discussed, and we also give two iterative algorithms for estimating its parameters from data. Finally, we include some modeling examples, where we have tested the ability of the distribution to represent locale amplitude histograms of linear medical ultrasound data and single-look synthetic aperture radar data. We compare the goodness of fit of the RiIG model with that of the K model, and, in most cases, the new model turns out as a better statistical model for the data. We also include a series of log-likelihood tests to evaluate the predictive performance of the proposed model.
16283113	To date, 26 species of Phytophthora have been reported in mainland China but only 23 are accepted as good taxa. Phytophthora nicotianae (P. parasitica) is the single most important species causing over 40 different plant diseases; P. boehmeriae is widespread attacking Gossypium, Boehmeria, Citrus, Broussonetia papyrifera and Pterocarya stenoptera; P. "fragariae var. oryzo-bladis" is unique to mainland China causing blight of Oryza sativa seedlings; P. megasperma sensu lato has been isolated from Glycine max, Asparagus officinalis and Spinacia oleracea. In Hainan Province, P. heveae is present in the soil without causing apparent diseases to Hevea brasiliensis there.
16283302	Monascus or more commonly known as red mold rice is fermented rice on which Monascus purpureus has been grown. It has been a traditional Chinese food additive for thousands of years in China. Secondary metabolite product of Monascus, monacolin K, has been proven that it could be used as an antihypercholesterolemic agent. In this study, M. purpureus NTU568 mutated and selected from a monacolin K productivity strain-M. purpureus HM105 produced high quantities of monacolin K at a level of 9,500 mg kg(-1). This research focused on the effect of adding red mold rice powder of M. purpureus NTU568 to a hamster diet on total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C). In the results, the oral administration of Monascus powder in hyperlipidemia hamster was indeed proven to decrease TC, TG, and LDL-C levels. Plasma TC levels in hamster fed with Monascus powder at one-fold dosage [10.78 mg (day 100 g bw)(-1)] for 4 and 8 weeks were significantly lower (31.2 and 22.0%, respectively) than that in hyperlipidemia hamster. Plasma TG (30.1 and 17.9%) and LDL-C levels (36.0 and 20.7%) were also significantly lowered by feeding Monascus powder at one-fold dosage for 4 and 8 weeks compared to hyperlipidemia hamster. In addition, examinations of liver TC and TG levels of hyperlipidemia hamster were also performed and showed similar effects on lipid-lowering action by oral administration of Monascus powder. Since citrinin is a mycotoxin that possesses nephrotoxic and hepatoxic effects, it has a negative impact on the safety of red mold rice for people. This study examined the liver somatic index [plasma glutamyl oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) and glutamyl pyruvic transaminase (GPT) levels] and liver biopsy to investigate whether Monascus powder induced damage in liver. It was found that the plasma GOT and GPT levels were not significantly increased by feeding Monascus powder. There was no difference in the results of the liver biopsy between the Monascus powder-treated groups and the control group.
16283384	In plant genomes, there exist discrete regions rich in CpG dinucleotides, namely CpG clusters. In rice, most of these CpG clusters are associated with genes. Rice genes are grouped into one of the five classes according to the position of an associated CpG cluster. Among them, class 1 genes, which harbor a CpG cluster at the 5'-terminus, share similarities with human genes having CpG islands. In the present study, by analyzing plant genome sequence data, primarily from rice, we investigated the chromosomal distribution of genes of each class, mainly class 1 genes. Class 1 genes were not uniformly distributed across the rice genome, but were clustered into discrete chromosomal segments. EST-based analysis of the distribution of expressed genes indicates that this segmental distribution of class 1 genes caused a preferential distribution of expressed genes within class 1 gene-rich segments. We then compared the methylation status of genes of each class to examine the possibility that differential DNA methylation, if any, is relevant to the observed differential expression level of genes inside and outside the class 1 segments. The difference in the methylation level between these genes was revealed to be fairly small, which does not support the above-mentioned possibility.
16284311	Genome-wide 70-mer oligonucleotide microarrays of rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis thaliana were used to profile genome expression changes during light-regulated seedling development. We estimate that the expression of approximately 20% of the genome in both rice and Arabidopsis seedlings is regulated by white light. Qualitatively similar expression profiles from seedlings grown under different light qualities were observed in both species; however, a quantitatively weaker effect on genome expression was observed in rice. Most metabolic pathways exhibited qualitatively similar light regulation in both species with a few species-specific differences. Global comparison of expression profiles between rice and Arabidopsis reciprocal best-matched gene pairs revealed a higher correlation of genome expression patterns in constant light than in darkness, suggesting that the genome expression profile of photomorphogenesis is more conserved. Transcription factor gene expression under constant light exposure was poorly conserved between the two species, implying a faster-evolving rate of transcription factor gene expression in light-grown plants. Organ-specific expression profiles during seedling photomorphogenesis provide genome-level evidence for divergent light effects in different higher plant organs. Finally, overrepresentation of specific promoter motifs in root- and leaf-specific light-regulated genes in both species suggests that these cis-elements are important for gene expression responses to light.
16284406	The transcription factors dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 1s (DREB1s)/C-repeat-binding factors (CBFs) specifically interact with the DRE/CRT cis-acting element and control the expression of many stress-inducible genes in Arabidopsis. The genes for DREB1 orthologs, OsDREB1A and OsDREB1B from rice, are induced by cold stress, and overexpression of DREB1 or OsDREB1 induced strong expression of stress-responsive genes in transgenic Arabidopsis plants, resulting in increased tolerance to high-salt and freezing stresses. In this study, we generated transgenic rice plants overexpressing the OsDREB1 or DREB1 genes. These transgenic rice plants showed not only growth retardation under normal growth conditions but also improved tolerance to drought, high-salt and low-temperature stresses like the transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing OsDREB1 or DREB1. We also detected elevated contents of osmoprotectants such as free proline and various soluble sugars in the transgenic rice as in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants. We identified target stress-inducible genes of OsDREB1A in the transgenic rice using microarray and RNA gel blot analyses. These genes encode proteins that are thought to function in stress tolerance in the plants. These results indicate that the DREB1/CBF cold-responsive pathway is conserved in rice and the DREB1-type genes are quite useful for improvement of stress tolerance to environmental stresses in various kinds of transgenic plants including rice.
16284419	Transacting factors often form homo- and heterodimers and regulate various targets, the type of regulation depending on the dimeric combination. The WUS and TALE subfamilies are two atypical homeodomains in plants. A homeodomain mediates sequence-specific binding to its target DNA and usually consists of 60 amino acid residues, whereas atypical homeodomains have extra amino acid residues in the well-conserved region. The genes OsWUS and OsPRS, which encode atypical homeodomain proteins from the WUS subfamily, and OsBEL and OSH15, which encode those from the TALE subfamily, were isolated from rice and tested for their interactions by yeast two-hybrid analysis. OsWUS and OsPRS formed homodimers and formed heterodimers with each other but did not form dimers with the TALE family homeodomain proteins OSH15 or OsBEL. Likewise, OSH15 and OsBEL formed homodimers and heterodimers but did not form dimers with the WUS family homeodomain proteins OsWUS and OsPRS. These findings suggest that the combinations of dimers are well correlated with the classification of these proteins on the basis of sequence similarity. RT-PCR analysis revealed that expression of OsWUS and OsPRS was detected in the same organs, namely floral buds, roots, and suspension cells. Therefore, it is possible that the proteins encoded by both of these genes function as homo- and heterodimers in planta. These results suggest that, during the evolution of these subfamilies, various combinations of dimers within proteins encoded by paralogous genes were formed and generated independent regulatory networks that enabled complex patterns of plant development.
16284938	Large-scale analyses of proteins and metabolites are intimately bound to advancements in MS technologies. The aim of these non-targeted "omic" technologies is to extend our understanding beyond the analysis of only parts of the system. Here, metabolomics and proteomics emerged in parallel with the development of novel mass analyzers and hyphenated techniques such as gas chromatography coupled to time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOF-MS) and multidimensional liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The analysis of (i) proteins (ii) phosphoproteins, and (iii) metabolites is discussed in the context of plant physiology and environment and with a focus on novel method developments. Recently published studies measuring dynamic (quantitative) behavior at these levels are summarized; for these works, the completely sequenced plants Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice) have been the primary models of choice. Particular emphasis is given to key physiological processes such as metabolism, development, stress, and defense. Moreover, attempts to combine spatial, tissue-specific resolution with systematic profiling are described. Finally, we summarize the initial steps to characterize the molecular plant phenotype as a corollary of environment and genotype.
16286085	Macro-invertebrate assemblages on organic and conventional rice fields were quantitatively compared in the Camargue (Rhone delta, France). There was no major difference in family richness, but significant differences as regard to abundance. Fipronil, the insecticide used to control chironomid larvae, was one of the main factors explaining those differences. Its negative impact on predatory invertebrates appears to explain the paradoxical lack of difference in chironomid abundance between organic and conventional fields, observed during the study. Macro-invertebrate biomass estimation showed that, for some birds such as herons, conventional rice fields offered a lower value as foraging habitats than organic ones.
16286450	The wall-associated kinase (WAK) gene family, one of the receptor-like kinase (RLK) gene families in plants, plays important roles in cell expansion, pathogen resistance, and heavy-metal stress tolerance in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Through a reiterative database search and manual reannotation, we identified 125 OsWAK gene family members from rice (Oryza sativa) japonica cv Nipponbare; 37 (approximately 30%) OsWAKs were corrected/reannotated from earlier automated annotations. Of the 125 OsWAKs, 67 are receptor-like kinases, 28 receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases, 13 receptor-like proteins, 12 short genes, and five pseudogenes. The two-intron gene structure of the Arabidopsis WAK/WAK-Likes is generally conserved in OsWAKs; however, extra/missed introns were observed in some OsWAKs either in extracellular regions or in protein kinase domains. In addition to the 38 OsWAKs with full-length cDNA sequences and the 11 with rice expressed sequence tag sequences, gene expression analyses, using tiling-microarray analysis of the 20 OsWAKs on chromosome 10 and reverse transcription-PCR analysis for five OsWAKs, indicate that the majority of identified OsWAKs are likely expressed in rice. Phylogenetic analyses of OsWAKs, Arabidopsis WAK/WAK-Likes, and barley (Hordeum vulgare) HvWAKs show that the OsWAK gene family expanded in the rice genome due to lineage-specific expansion of the family in monocots. Localized gene duplications appear to be the primary genetic event in OsWAK gene family expansion and the 125 OsWAKs, present on all 12 chromosomes, are mostly clustered.
16287625	Ascorbate peroxidase (APX, EC 1.11.1.11) plays a major role in H(2)O(2)-scavenging in plants and can help to avoid reactive oxygen species (ROS) damage. A new cytosolic APX gene was cloned from tomato (designated LecAPX2) by RACE-PCR. The full-length cDNA of LecAPX2 contained a complete open reading frame (ORF) of 753 bp, which encoding 250 amino acid residues. Homology analysis of LecAPX2 showed a 94% identity with potato cAPX gene and 92% identity with another tomato cAPX gene (APX20), the deduced amino acid showed 88% homology with APX20 protein and 75-92% identity with cAPX from other plants such as potato, tobacco, broccoli, spinach, pea, rice, etc. LecAPX2 revealed the existence of a haem peroxidase and plant APX family signatures. Northern blot analysis showed that LecAPX2 was constitutively expressed in root, stem, leaf, flower and fruit of tomato, whereas the expression levels were different. LecAPX2 was mapped to 6-A using 75 tomato introgression lines (ILs), each containing a single homozygous RFLP-defined chromosome segment from the green-fruited species Lycopersicon pennellii.
16288879	Three castasterone (CS) derivatives with varied side-chain moieties, 26,27-bisnorcastasterone (20S-bisnorCS), 20-epi-26,27-bisnorcastasterone (20R-bisnorCS), and 21,26,27-trisnorcastasterone (trisnorCS), were synthesized stereoselectively from either stigmasterol or dehydroisoandrosterone. The 50% effective doses (ED50, nmol/plant) in the concentration-response curve for brassinolide-like activity in the rice lamina inclination assay were determined to be 0.020 nmol (pED50 = 10.7) for 20S-bisnorCS, 3.2 nmol (pED50 = 8.5) for 20R-bisnorCS, and 2.0 nmol (pED50 = 8.7) for trisnorCS. An analog containing an ester linkage between the steroid and the side-chain moiety of 20S-bisnorCS was also synthesized and its activity was evaluated to be 3.2 nmol (pED50 = 8.5), being equipotent to 20R-bisnorCS and trisnorCS. The activity of 20S-bisnorCS was 1/40 that of CS. The conformation analysis was conducted using a systematic search, showing that the activity decreases with an increase in the degree of freedom of the side chain of the steroidal skeleton.
16289622	The objective of this study is to determine the changes brought about by germination on water soluble feruloyl arabinoxylans (feraxans), one of the major components of soluble fibre from rice and ragi and their consequence on antioxidant activity. Soluble feraxans, isolated from native and malted rice and ragi were fractionated on DEAE-cellulose. Ferulic acid content of the major [0.1 molar ammonium carbonate (AC) eluted] fraction was higher in malts (rice: 1045 microg/g; ragi: 1404 microg/g) than in native (rice: 119 microg/g; ragi: 147 microg/g) and this fraction was separated by Sephacryl S-300 chromatography into two peaks each in rice (native: 232 and 24.4 kDa; malt: 75.4 and 39.6 kDa) and ragi (native: 140 and 15.4 kDa; malt: 38.9 and 15.4 kDa). 0.1 molar AC eluted fractions showed very strong antioxidant activity in vitro as determined by beta-carotene-linoleate emulsion (IC50: 0.16-0.24 mg), DPPH* (IC50: 4.1-11.4 mg) and Ferric reducing/antioxidant power, FRAP (EC1: 0.76-3.1mg) assays. Antioxidant activity of feraxans was several (4.9-1400) folds higher than the expected activity due to their bound ferulic acid content. Apart from ferulic acid, presence of sugars with >C=O (uronyl/acetyl) groups and degree/nature of glycan-polymerization were observed to influence antioxidant activity of the polysaccharides. Malting resulted in many dynamic changes in the ferulic acid content in different feraxan types and affected their antioxidant activity.
16289628	The genomic and cDNA sequences of three PDI homoeologous genes located on chromosomes 4A, 4B and 4D of bread wheat and their promoters were cloned and sequenced. The three sequences showed a very high conservation of the coding region and of the exon/intron structure, which consisted of ten exons. The comparison of wheat sequences with those of rice and Arabidopsis showed a significant conservation of the exon/intron structure across the three species. The expression of each gene was analysed by RT-PCR in different plant tissues (roots, coleoptiles, spikelets, leaves and developing caryopses). All the genes showed a higher expression in developing caryopses than in other analysed tissues, wherein some differences were detected. The promoter sequences of the three genes possessed some regulatory motifs typical of endosperm specific expression.
16290010	Retrotransposition typically generates pseudogenes. Here we demonstrate a different fate of the retro-processed genes through a novel mechanism in which the retro-processed genes still maintain their sequence intactness and the original functions. We show that the shrimp cathepsin L (CatL) gene MeCatL has lost all of its five introns. Also, ProEPB, the ancestor of the CatL-like barley EPBs and rice REP1, has lost all of its three introns. The multiple introns in a gene might have been eliminated simultaneously and precisely at the original locus for the CatL-like genes of shrimp, barley, rice, Drosophila, and Theileria. We reason that retrotransposition is not responsible for the generation of a processed active intronless (PAI) gene when the gene product retains its sequence intactness and its original function. We propose that double-strand-break repair (DSBR) machinery might play a role in cDNA-mediated homologous recombination (cDMHR) that causes the loss of introns. The cDMHR/DSBR pathway is probably a fundamental mechanism for intron loss in PAI genes and in some asymmetric-intron genes.
16290176	NADP-malic enzymes (NADP-ME) are isozymes in plants. To clarify the diversity and function of NADP-ME isozymes in rice, we produced two active GST-fused NADP-ME proteins, NADP-ME2 and NADP-ME3 in Escherichia coli, and the fusion proteins were purified by affinity chromatography using a glutathione-Sepharose 4B column. After enzymatic cleavage of the GST tag, final yields were 1.4 mg/g wet cell weight (wcw) for NADP-ME2 and 3.5 mg/g wcw for NADP-ME3, respectively, and the molecular weights of NADP-ME2 and NADP-ME3 were about 65 and 62 kDa, respectively. The optimum pH is 7.3 for NADP-ME2 and 7.7 for NADP-ME3. The Km values for malate of NADP-ME2 and NADP-ME3 were 2.6 and 3.1 mM, whereas the Km values for NADP were 79 and 93 microM, respectively. The Kcat values of NADP-ME2 and NADP-ME3 for malate were about 91.7 and 96.7 s-1, respectively, and the Kcat values for NADP about 88.3 and 98.3 s-1, respectively. These results suggest that the two rice isozymes of NADP-ME in vitro have similar kinetic parameter.
16290186	The plant specific LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES (LOB) domain (LBD) gene family has a potential role in lateral organ development. Thirty-five LBD genes in a japonica rice (Nipponbare) (designated OsJLBD) and in an indica rice (9311) (designated OsILBD) were identified based on the current databases of the two rice subspecies. A new rice LBD gene with two LOB domains and two predicted coiled coil structures in both subspecies was found, which is not found in other plant species based on the current NCBI Genbank database. OsJLBD and OsILBD genes have similar chromosomal distribution pattern. Both OsJLBD and OsILBD genes can be divided into 7 subclasses (classes Ia-e, II and III (see)) and no subclass-specific expression pattern was observed. No introns have been predicted in all class Ie genes in both OsJLBD and OsILBD subfamilies. The genome and tandem duplication has contributed to the neofunctionalization and formation of new rice subclasses, but the mechanism of diploidization and limited tandem duplication have contributed to fewer LBD genes in rice than in Arabidopsis. Functional studies of genes in subclasses may help to determine whether special sequence structure (intron-exon, spacing characters of motifs) has caused special expression pattern of subclasses.
16290216	China is the largest producer and consumer of rice in the world and a pioneer in applying hybrid rice technology. Although hybrid rice has contributed greatly to Chinese agriculture in the past decades, its potential to improve grain quality further is being questioned. However, to meet the challenges posed by severe crop damage by pests and diseases, the extensive use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers, and a shortage of water and energy, more elite rice cultivars are needed. In recent years, China has seen continued improvements in rice genetics, powered by functional genomics as a way forward to safeguard its rice production. Here, we briefly review the current status of rice breeding in China through strategies integrating hybrid rice technology, molecular marker-assisted breeding, functional genomics and genetically modified rice.
16291769	Seed germination and early seedling growth are regulated by an intricate network of hormonal signaling pathways. The plant hormones gibberellic acid (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) are particularly important positive and negative regulators of these processes, respectively. In the cereal rice, mutant analysis has implicated heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein) signaling in GA-stimulated expression of several genes, including expression of the gene encoding the hydrolytic enzyme alpha-amylase, which breaks down carbohydrate reserves and thus mobilizes nutrients that nourish the young seedling.
16291770	When the effects of specific pathogen-produced elicitor compounds on plant cells are recognized by specific plant resistance (R) gene products, a local defense response called the hypersensitive response is triggered. Production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and induction of defense genes are components of this response. In rice cultivars harboring null mutations in the G protein alpha subunit, RGA1, ROS production and defense gene induction by the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea and its sphingolipid elicitors are reduced or delayed. These results implicate heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) as important players in plant pathogen response.
16294303	Accumulating evidence suggests that redox regulations play important roles in a broad spectrum of biological processes. Recently, Yano et al. developed a disulfide proteome technique that comprehensively visualizes redox change in proteins. In this paper, using the disulfide proteome, we examined rice bran and identified fragments of embryo-specific protein and dienelactone hydrolase as putative targets of thioredoxin. Also, monitoring of the endogenous and recombinant effects of thioredoxin on rice bran proteins and supporting in vivo observations propose a mechanism of redox regulation in seed germination, in which thioredoxin activates cysteine protease with a concurrent unfolding of its substrate, the embryo-specific protein. Our findings suggest that thioredoxin controls the lifetime of specific proteins effectively by regulating the redox reactions coordinately. The model study demonstrates that the disulfide proteome technique is useful not only for identifying targets of thioredoxin, but also for clarify the detailed mechanism of redox regulation.
16294922	In Thailand, agriculture is one of the major occupations; however, there is no comprehensive agricultural occupational health promotion and disease prevention model available. Objectives of this study were to empower farmers to study occupational health and safety situation in rice farming and to develop model to promote their health and prevent occupational health hazards among them. This participatory action research was performed in Tambol Klong 7, Klongluang district, Pathumthani, Thailand. The 24 rice farmers from 9 villages were voluntarily recruited as members of research team called farmer-leader research group. This group had a monthly meeting to discuss issues of agricultural occupational health and safety during 3 yr study period. At first stage, farmer-leader research group analyzed occupational health and safety during rice farming process. After we had results from situation analysis, farmer-leader research group decided which problems would be solved first. We developed model to solve those problems during the second stage. Finally, model was implemented to farmers in the study area. During first stage, results of questionnaires showed that there were 3 major occupational health and safety problems among these farmers; symptoms from pesticide exposure (65% of respondents), musculoskeletal problems during various process (16.6%-75.9%), and injuries during various process (1.1%-83.2%). From these results, farmer-leader research group decided to deal with pesticide problem. There was an experiment comparing using biofertilizers and bio pest-control with using chemical fertilizers and pesticides in the rice paddy. Results showed that the biological field produced the same amount of rice as the chemical field but cost less money than the chemical one. Benefits from using biofertilizers and bio pest-control were having higher profit, less exposure to chemicals, and good mental health from higher profit. After this experiment, biofertilizers and bio pest-control were disseminated to rice-farmers and students and teachers in local schools. At the end of study, we found that there were networks of farmers and networks of students-teachers using biological methods. This study showed that participation with farmers could create a real sustainable model to promote farmers' health and prevent them from occupational health hazards.
16295678
16295883	China is one of countries with the highest mercury production in the world. The Guizhou Province in Southwestern China is currently one of the world's most important mercury production areas. In order to study the neurotoxicity of rice from Qingzhen Chemical Plant area and probe into the signal transduction molecular mechanism of injury in rat brain stimulation by mercury contaminated rice. The rats were exposed to mercury contaminated rice for 20 d. Both of the measurements of NO and NOS were processed according to the protocol of the kit. The effect of Hg contaminated rice on the expression of c-fos mRNA in rat brain and the expression of c-FOS protein in cortex, hippocampus were observed using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemical methods. The results showed the neural transmitter NO and NOS in brain were significantly change between exposure groups and control group; the mercury polluted rice induced significantly the expression of c-fos mRNA; the c-FOS positive cells in hippocampus and cortex of exposure groups were significant different from control group (p < 0.01). It could be concluded that nitric oxide was involved in mercury contaminated rice induced immediate early gene c-fos expressions in the rat brain. Through food chain, local ecosystem and health of local people iave been deteriorated seriously by mercury. This serious situation will last a long period. In order to alleviate mercury pollution, more work needs to do.
16297065	Methylthioadenosine (MTA) is formed as a by-product of ethylene biosynthesis from S-adenosyl-L-methionine (AdoMet). The methionine cycle regenerates AdoMet from MTA. In two independent differential screens for submergence-induced genes and for 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC)-induced genes from deepwater rice (Oryza sativa L.) we identified an acireductone dioxygenase (ARD). OsARD1 is a metal-binding protein that belongs to the cupin superfamily. Acireductone dioxygenases are unique proteins that can acquire two different activities depending on the metal ion bound. Ectopically expressed apo-OsARD1 preferentially binds Fe(2+) and reconstituted Fe-OsARD1 catalyzed the formation of 2-keto-pentanoate and formate from the model substrate 1,2-dihydroxy-3-ketopent-1-ene and dioxygen, indicating that OsARD1 is capable of catalyzing the penultimate step in the methionine cycle. Two highly homologous ARD genes were identified in rice. OsARD1 mRNA levels showed a rapid, early and transient increase upon submergence and after treatment with ethylene-releasing compounds. The second gene from rice, OsARD2, is constitutively expressed. Accumulation of OsARD1 transcript was observed in the same internodal tissues, i.e. the meristem and elongation zone, which were previously shown to synthesize ethylene. OsARD1 transcripts accumulated in the presence of cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, indicating that OsARD1 is a primary ethylene response gene. Promoter analysis suggests that immediate-early regulation of OsARD1 by ethylene may involve an EIN3-like transcription factor. OsARD1 is induced by low levels of ethylene. We propose that early feedback activation of the methionine cycle by low levels of ethylene ensures the high and continuous rates of ethylene synthesis required for long-term ethylene-mediated submergence adaptation without depleting the tissue of AdoMet.
16297069	The Arabidopsis Yellow Stripe 1-Like (YSL) proteins have been identified by homology with the maize (Zea mays) Yellow Stripe 1 (YS1) transporter which is responsible for iron-phytosiderophore (PS) uptake by roots in response to iron shortage. Although dicotyledonous plants do not synthesize PS, they do synthesize the PS precursor nicotianamine, a strong metal chelator essential for maintenance of iron homeostasis and copper translocation. Furthermore, ZmYS1 and the rice (Oryza sativa) protein OsYSL2 have metal-nicotianamine transport activities in heterologous expression systems. In this work, we have characterized the function of AtYSL1 in planta. Two insertional loss-of-function ysl1 mutants of Arabidopsis were found to exhibit increased nicotianamine accumulation in shoots. More importantly, seeds of both ysl1 knockouts contained less iron and nicotianamine than wild-type seeds, even when produced by plants grown in the presence of an excess of iron. This phenotype could be reverted by expressing the wild-type AtYSL1 gene in ysl1 plants. ysl1 seeds germinated slowly, but this defect was rescued by an iron supply. AtYSL1 was expressed in the xylem parenchyma of leaves, where it was upregulated in response to iron excess, as well as in pollen and in young silique parts. This pattern is consistent with long-distance circulation of iron and nicotianamine and their delivery to the seed. Taken together, our work provides strong physiological evidence that iron and nicotianamine levels in seeds rely in part on AtYSL1 function.
16297077	We have developed a novel system for insertional mutagenesis in rice (Oryza sativa) based on the maize (Zea mays) enhancer/suppressor mutator (En/Spm) element. In this system, a single T-DNA construct with Spm-transposase and the non-autonomous defective suppressor mutator (dSpm) element is used in conjunction with green fluorescent protein (GFP) and Discosoma sp. Red Fluorescence Protein (DsRed) fluorescent markers to select unlinked stable transpositions of dSpm. Using this system, we could demonstrate high frequencies of unlinked germinal transposition of dSpm in rice. Analysis of dSpm flanking sequences from 353 stable insertion lines revealed that the dSpm insertions appear to be widely distributed on rice chromosomes with a preference for genic regions (70%). The dSpm insertions appear to differ from Activator-Dissociation (Ac-Ds) elements in genomic distribution and exhibit a greater fraction of unlinked transpositions when compared with Ds elements. The results obtained in this study demonstrate that the maize En/Spm element can be used as an effective tool for functional genomics in rice and can complement efforts using other insertional mutagens. Further, the efficacy of the non-invasive fluorescence-based selection system is promising for its application to other crops.
16297656	Provitamin A accumulates in the grain of Golden Rice as a result of genetic transformation. In developing countries, where vitamin A deficiency prevails, grain from Golden Rice is expected to provide this important micronutrient sustainably through agriculture. Since its original production, the prototype Golden Rice has undergone intense research to increase the provitamin A content, to establish the scientific basis for its carotenoid complement, and to better comply with regulatory requirements. Today, the current focus is on how to get Golden Rice effectively into the hands of farmers, which is a novel avenue for public sector research, carried out with the aid of international research consortia. Additional new research is underway to further increase the nutritional value of Golden Rice.
16298126	The fixed bed pyrolysis of rice husk was studied under conventional conditions with the aim of determining the characteristics of the charcoal formed for its applicability as a solid fuel. Thermoanalytic methods were used to determine the kinetic parameters of its combustion. Palletisation using different binders and techniques to improve the time of sustained combustion of the char pallets were investigated. The optimum temperature for carbonization to obtain a char having moderately high heating value was found as 400 degrees C. For the active char combustion zone, the order of reaction was nearly 1, the activation energy 73.403 kJ/mol and the pre-exponential factor 4.97 x 10(4)min(-1). Addition of starch as a binder and 10% ferrous sulphate heptahydrate or sodium hypophosphite as an additive enhanced the ignitibility of the char pallets.
16298143	Human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (hG-CSF), a human cytokine, was expressed in transgenic rice cell suspension culture. The hG-CSF gene was cloned into the rice expression vector containing the promoter, signal peptide, and terminator derived from a rice alpha-amylase gene Amy3D. Using particle bombardment-mediated transformation, hG-CSF gene was introduced into the calli of rice (Oryza sativa) cultivar Dong-jin. Expression of the hG-CSF gene was confirmed by ELISA and Northern blot analysis. The amount of recombinant hG-CSF accumulated in culture medium from transgenic rice cell suspension culture on the sugar starvation was determined by time series ELISA. Biological activity of the plant derived hG-CSF was confirmed by measuring the proliferation of the AML-193 cells, and was similar to that of the commercial Escherichia coli-derived hG-CSF. In this paper, we discuss the attractive attributes of using rice cell suspension system for the expression of therapeutic recombinant hG-CSF.
16298179	Arsenic speciation analysis suffers in general from high sample handling time required by sample preparation. In a previous work, ultrasonic probe has been proved to reduce sample treatment time for arsenic extraction in rice to only a few minutes. Base upon the obtained results, here several extraction media for chicken, fish and soil samples (SEAS G6RD-CT2001-00473) have been studied and evaluated employing the same technique. Chicken sample needed an enzymatic treatment in order to liberate the species linked to the protein matrix. Extraction of the major species in fish, AsB, was quantitatively achieved in water in 1 min. Also 1 min was enough to leach about 85% of species present in soils and sediments, mainly the inorganic ones, using H(3)PO(4). In all cases, no inter-conversion among As species was observed. The five species found in those samples were separated using an improved HPLC-ICP-MS method in only 11 min, with detection limits at the ng l(-1) level. The proposed methods were validated by analysing several Certified Reference Materials: SRM 1,568 a rice flour, CRM-627 tuna fish tissue, SOIL-7 soil and MURST-ISS-A1 Antarctic sediment.
16299003	Plant roots retain developmental plasticity and respond to environmental stresses or exogenous plant growth regulators by undergoing profound morphological and physiological alteration. In this study, we investigated the effects of exogenous ABA on root growth and development in Taichung native 1 (TN1) rice. Exogenous application of 10 microM ABA leads to swelling, root hair formation and initiation of lateral root primodia in the tips of young, seminal rice roots. Cortex cells increased in size and were irregularly shaped. ABA treatment significantly increased 2, 3, 5-triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TTC) reductase ability in the root tips and the exudation rate of xylem sap. In addition, the K(+) ion content in xylem sap increased nearly 2-fold, but not that of Ca(2+) or Mg(2+). Analysis of proteins expressed in the root tips identified several ABA-induced or -repressed proteins, including actin depolymerization factor (ADF), late embryo abundant protein (LEA), putative steroid membrane-binding protein, ferredoxin thionine reductase and calcium-binding protein. The effects of ABA on root morphogenesis change were Ca(2+) dependent and required the participation of calmodulin and de novo protein synthesis. A model is presented that illustrates how ABA acts through a potential cellular and signal transduction mechanism to induce morphological and physiological changes in rice roots.
16299167	The mechanisms of viral diseases are a major focus of biology. Despite intensive investigations, how a plant virus interacts with host factors to cause diseases remains poorly understood. The Rice dwarf virus (RDV), a member of the genus Phytoreovirus, causes dwarfed growth phenotypes in infected rice (Oryza sativa) plants. The outer capsid protein P2 is essential during RDV infection of insects and thus influences transmission of RDV by the insect vector. However, its role during RDV infection within the rice host is unknown. By yeast two-hybrid and coimmunoprecipitation assays, we report that P2 of RDV interacts with ent-kaurene oxidases, which play a key role in the biosynthesis of plant growth hormones gibberellins, in infected plants. Furthermore, the expression of ent-kaurene oxidases was reduced in the infected plants. The level of endogenous GA1 (a major active gibberellin in rice vegetative tissues) in the RDV-infected plants was lower than that in healthy plants. Exogenous application of GA3 to RDV-infected rice plants restored the normal growth phenotypes. These results provide evidence that the P2 protein of RDV interferes with the function of a cellular factor, through direct physical interactions, that is important for the biosynthesis of a growth hormone leading to symptom expression. In addition, the interaction between P2 and rice ent-kaurene oxidase-like proteins may decrease phytoalexin biosynthesis and make plants more competent for virus replication. Moreover, P2 may provide a novel tool to investigate the regulation of GA metabolism for plant growth and development.
1629999	Glycaemic index of local staple foods was determined. In first phase, the post prandial blood glucose response of isocaloric portion of wheat chapati and gram flour (baisen) chapati, were compared in 11 type II diabetic patients as a part of mixed meal in fasting state, alternately. The glycaemic index of baisen chapati was 39 as compared with wheat chapati. In second phase of the study, 22 type II diabetic patients were given isocaloric portions of wheat chapati and boiled rice as a part of mixed meal alternately. The glycaemic index of rice was 98 as compared with wheat chapati. This study favours the belief that baisen chapati is better and refutes that rice is bad for diabetics. It also upholds that glycaemic index is useful for planning a diabetic diet.
16300882	Graft copolymerization of acrylonitrile onto maize starch by a simultaneous irradiation technique using gamma-rays as the initiator was studied with regard to the various parameters of importance: the monomer-to-maize starch ratio and total dose (kGy). The water absorption of the modified maize starch was measured. The starch modified by acrylonitrile gives low water absorbance. Conversion of the copolymer to the amidoxime form gives high swelling. The gel (%) and the grafting efficiency were measured. An investigation was carried out to study the adsorption of basic violet 7, basic blue 3, direct yellow 50 and acid red 37 from aqueous solutions by the water-insoluble modified starch containing amidoxime groups and rice straw. The effects of initial pH of the solution, pollutant concentration and treatment time on the adsorption were studied and it was found that the maximum adsorption was at 1:2 (starch/acrylonitrile) at irradiation dose 30 kGy.
16301530
16302746	In this paper, accelerated solvent extraction (ASE) for the analysis of ochratoxin A (OTA) is applied for the first time. Optimization of the method is given for the extraction of OTA from rice samples. Several parameters such as type of solvent, temperature, pressure, static time, and cell size were investigated thoroughly to find the optimal extraction conditions. The optimum ASE operating conditions were methanol as extraction solvent, 1500 psi, 40 degrees C, 5 min of static time, 50% flush volume, 60 s of purge, 1 cycle, and 11 mL cell size. The total extraction time was approximately 15 min. OTA was determined by liquid chromatography coupled with a fluorescence detector and confirmed by methyl ester derivatization. The analytical performance of the method was monitored with quality control parameters. Finally, the optimized method was used to evaluate 12 rice samples, 1 of which was positive with an OTA content of 4.17 ng/g. The proposed method offers the possibility of a fast and simple process to obtain a quantitative extraction of OTA.
16302750	Supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) and the use of aminopropyl solid-phase material for "in-line" cleanup was evaluated for residue analysis of 22 GC-amenable pesticides in wild- and white-rice samples with a fat content of 1.9 and 0.4%, respectively. After optimizing the extraction conditions on glass beads as inert material and evaluating the fat amount extracted from rice by SFE, the use of Florisil, Celite, Extrelut, Hydromatrix, and an aminopropyl material as fat-retention materials for SFE "in-line" cleanup was assessed, aminopropyl being the most suitable material for this cleanup of fat. Pesticide mean recoveries obtained from rice samples, at fortification levels around 0.5 mg/kg, by means of the SFE/in-line cleanup method finally proposed (15-mL CO2 volume, 50 degrees C temperature, 200 atm pressure, 200 muL of methanol static modifier, and a 1-cm layer of aminopropyl at the bottom of the extraction vessel), ranged between 74 and 98%, except for captafol and dimethoate for which mean recoveries lower than 21% were determined.
16303748	Pollen allergens play important roles in plant development in addition to their allergenic nature for human. More than 10 groups of pollen allergens have been reported. Among them, Pollen_Ole_e_I (Ole), Pollen_allerg_1 (Allerg1) and Pollen_allerg_2 (Allerg2) domain-containing proteins are the majority of allergens. We have identified 114 pollen-allergen-like genes in rice genome by bioinformatics using public databases. Among them, 45 genes encode Ole domain-containing proteins, 62 with Allerg1 and 7 with Allerg2. They are distributed on 11 of 12 rice chromosomes excluding chromosome 11. Comparison analysis of coding regions from both predicted genes and isolated full-length cDNAs showed that most of predicted genes were correct in the splicing of exons and introns, and only 7 exhibited wrong predictions. The fact suggested the applicability of the prediction programs to identify pollen-allergen genes. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the high diversity within OsOle genes and recent evolutionary event in OsAllerg1 genes, and suggested that some of OsOle genes were new members of the family. Expression analysis by RT-PCR showed that most of the genes were expressed in all tested tissues and only eight genes exhibited panicle-specific expression, suggesting that pollen-allergen genes play roles in not only productive but also vegetative development.
1630454	The promoter of the constitutively expressed rice (Oryza sativa) actin 1 gene (Act1) is highly active in transformed rice plants (W. Zhang, D. McElroy, and R. Wu, Plant Cell 3:1150-1160, 1991). A region 834 bp upstream of the Act1 transcription initiation site contains all the regulatory elements necessary for maximal gene expression in transformed rice protoplasts (D. McElroy, W. Zhang, J. Cao, and R. Wu, Plant Cell 2:163-171, 1990). We have constructed a series of Act1 promoter deletions fused to a bacterial beta-glucuronidase reporter sequence (Gus). Transient expression assays in transformed rice protoplasts, as well as transformed maize cells and tissues, identified two distinct cis-acting regulatory elements in the Act1 promoter. A 38-bp poly(dA-dT) region was found to be a positive regulator of Act1 promoter activity. Deletion of the poly(dA-dT) element lowered Gus expression by at least threefold compared with expression produced by the full-length Act1 promoter. By gel retardation and footprinting, we identified a ubiquitous rice protein which specifically recognizes this poly(dA-dT) element in the constitutively active Act1 promoter. A CCCAA pentamer repeat-containing region was found to be a negative regulator of the Act1 promoter in transformed rice protoplasts. Transient expression assays in different maize cells and tissues with use of the Act1 deletion constructs suggested that the CCCAA pentamer repeat region functions in a complex tissue-specific manner. A CCCAA-binding protein was detected only in root extracts.
16305173	A simple and rapid method was developed for the screening of 82 pesticides/metabolites in a wide variety of crops, using solid-phase extraction and liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). After extraction with methanol, the filtered extracts were made up to 100 mL and a 2 mL aliquot was subjected to solid-phase extraction. Co-extractives were removed with a C18 mini-column, while pesticides were retained on 3 kinds of mini-columns (HLB, SAX, activated carbon), and then eluted with acetonitrile. Analysis was performed by LC/MS/MS, and MS acquisition parameters were established in positive and negative ESI modes. The utility of the method was demonstrated by the analysis of 6 crops (carrot, cabbage, onion, spinach, lemon, brown rice) and one mixed vegetable juice. Of 82 compounds tested, 75 in carrot and 62 in lemon were obtained with recoveries ranging from 70-120%. For all samples tested, 75 compounds could be obtained with recoveries of over 50%, and the detection limits of most compounds were lower than 0.01 microg/g. This method provides acceptable performance for analysis of these 75 compounds. Further, by using aliquots of the extracts with small-scale mini-columns, purified samples could be obtained. This proposed method with small matrix effects, is effective and suitable for screening of multiple residual pesticides by using LC/MS/MS.
16305175	Fungi growing on domestic rice were examined from April to June, 2003. One hundred samples of rice, which had been harvested in the autumn of 2002, were collected from the local market, and 15 samples of stored rice, which had been harvested in 2001 and stored in warehouses under government control, were used as samples. From each sample, 50 grains (100 grains in total) were plated on potato-dextrose agar (PDA) and malt yeast 40% sucrose agar (M40YA) containing chloramphenicol after being washed with sterile distilled water to remove any microorganisms on the surface, and incubated at 25 degrees C for a week. For most of the rice samples harvested in the preceding year, the proportion of grains infected with fungi was less than 20% of the total grains tested. In about half the samples of rice stored for one and half years, more than 80% of the grains were infected with fungi that grew on M40YA. The major genera of fungi isolated from the rice harvested in the preceding year were Penicillium and Alternaria, and those from the rice stored for one and a half years were Aspergillus, Penicillium and Eurotium. P. islandicum, A. versicolor, A. ochraceus and others were isolated as possible mycotoxin-producers in the mycoflora of domestic rice. P. islandicum was isolated from 3 samples, and 82% of the grains were infected with this fungus in one sample. All three isolates from these samples appeared to produce luteoskyrin on Czapek yeast extract agar, based on TLC and HPLC analysis.
16306061	Elongation of rice internodes is one of the most important agronomic traits, which determines the plant height and underlies the grain yield. It has been shown that the elongation of internodes is under genetic control, and various factors are implicated in the process. Here, we report a detailed characterization of an elongated uppermost internode1 (eui1) mutant, which has been used in hybrid rice breeding. In the eui1-2 mutant, the cell lengths in the uppermost internodes are significantly longer than that of wild type and thus give rise to the elongated uppermost internode. It was found that the level of active gibberellin was elevated in the mutant, whereas its growth in response to gibberellin is similar to that of the wild type, suggesting that the higher level accumulation of gibberellin in the eui1 mutant causes the abnormal elongation of the uppermost internode. Consistently, the expression levels of several genes which encode gibberellin biosynthesis enzymes were altered. We cloned the EUI1 gene, which encodes a putative cytochrome P450 monooxygenase, by map-based cloning and found that EUI1 was weakly expressed in most tissues, but preferentially in young panicles. To confirm its function, transgenic experiments with different constructs of EUI1 were conducted. Overexpression of EUI1 gave rise to the gibberellin-deficient-like phenotypes, which could be partially reversed by supplementation with gibberellin. Furthermore, apart from the alteration of expression levels of the gibberellin biosynthesis genes, accumulation of SLR1 protein was found in the overexpressing transgenic plants, indicating that the expression level of EUI1 is implicated in both gibberellin-mediated SLR1 destruction and a feedback regulation in gibberellin biosynthesis. Therefore, we proposed that EUI1 plays a negative role in gibberellin-mediated regulation of cell elongation in the uppermost internode of rice.
16306388	The vast majority of introns in protein-coding genes of higher eukaryotes have a GT dinucleotide at their 5'-terminus and an AG dinucleotide at their 3' end. About 1-2% of introns are non-canonical, with the most abundant subtype of non-canonical introns being characterized by GC and AG dinucleotides at their 5'- and 3'-termini, respectively. Most current gene prediction software, whether based on ab initio or spliced alignment approaches, does not include explicit models for non-canonical introns or may exclude their prediction altogether. With present amounts of genome and transcript data, it is now possible to apply statistical methodology to non-canonical splice site prediction. We pursued one such approach and describe the training and implementation of GC-donor splice site models for Arabidopsis and rice, with the goal of exploring whether specific modeling of non-canonical introns can enhance gene structure prediction accuracy. Our results indicate that the incorporation of non-canonical splice site models yields dramatic improvements in annotating genes containing GC-AG and AT-AC non-canonical introns. Comparison of models shows differences between monocot and dicot species, but also suggests GC intron-specific biases independent of taxonomic clade. We also present evidence that GC-AG introns occur preferentially in genes with atypically high exon counts. Source code for the updated versions of GeneSeqer and SplicePredictor (distributed with the GeneSeqer code) isavailable at http://bioinformatics.iastate.edu/bioinformatics2go/gs/download.html. Web servers for Arabidopsis, rice and other plant species are accessible at http://www.plantgdb.org/PlantGDB-cgi/GeneSeqer/AtGDBgs.cgi, http://www.plantgdb.org/PlantGDB-cgi/GeneSeqer/OsGDBgs.cgi and http://www.plantgdb.org/PlantGDB-cgi/GeneSeqer/PlantGDBgs.cgi, respectively. A SplicePredictor web server is available at http://bioinformatics.iastate.edu/cgi-bin/sp.cgi. Software to generate training data and parameterizations for Bayesian splice site models is available at http://gremlin1.gdcb.iastate.edu/~volker/SB05B/BSSM4GSQ/
16307368	Drought stress near heading reduces grain yield in rice cultivars by inhibiting processes such as anther dehiscence and panicle exsertion. Because cell-wall invertases play an important role in carbon allocation to developing organs, we examined the tissue-specific expression and drought sensitivity of the corresponding genes (OsCIN1-9) at heading in the widely grown cultivar IR64. OsCIN1-5,8 were expressed to varying degrees in flag leaf, panicle, anthers and peduncle at 1 day before heading (1 DBH). When water was withheld for 2 days starting 3 DBH, anthesis and peduncle elongation were halted. At the same time, transcript levels for OsCIN1-5,8 genes were all markedly down-regulated in anthers and/or peduncles but were not affected in flag leaves. Re-watering allowed anthesis and peduncle elongation to proceed and restored expression of OsCIN1-5,8. We conclude that cell-wall invertase genes, as a class, respond rapidly to water deficit in anthers and peduncles and through a reduction in sink strength help to coordinate a delay in anthesis and heading. By contrast, vacuolar invertase OsVIN2 was up-regulated by drought stress in flag leaves, panicles, anthers and peduncles. Although OsCIN1-3,5,8 were active in the peduncle, only OsCIN2 was expressed strongly and preferentially at the base, where cell division and cell elongation occur. OsCIN2 was expressed principally in the primary and secondary vascular systems, consistent with a role in diverting sucrose from the phloem to the dividing and expanding cells of the peduncle, whereas the less abundant OsCIN1,3,5,8 transcripts were found principally in parenchyma cells. The OsCIN2 transcript levels in the base were highest at 1 DBH, when rapid peduncle elongation began. Drought stress halted peduncle elongation and reduced OsCIN2 transcript level to 8% of the control level. On re-watering, peduncle elongation was restored and OsCIN2 transcript level recovered to 24% of the control. The abscisic acid (ABA) level of peduncles increased 7-fold on drought stress and returned to the control level on re-watering. Detached peduncles floated on water elongated little and lost all OsCIN2 transcripts, but on 50-100 microM GA3 they elongated rapidly and maintained high OsCIN2 transcript levels. ABA antagonized both peduncle elongation and maintenance of OsCIN2 transcript levels. We conclude that this antagonism is a potential intervention point for breeding strategies directed at enhancing panicle exsertion during or after drought stress at heading.
16308134	This study estimated dietary vitamin B6 intake and its food sources in young Koreans by using a modified Korean vitamin B6 database. Dietary vitamin B6 intake and food sources were estimated from a 3-d recall method for 294 Korean college undergraduates (149 men and 145 women, age range 17 approximately 25 y) who had no health problems. Food portions were estimated by using standard household measurements and published average portions. Average daily intakes of vitamin B6 were 1.57 mg/d in men and 1.44 mg/d in women. Average consumptions of vitamin B6 were 104% of the Korean recommended dietary allowance in men for vitamin B6 and 102% in women. However, 37% of men and 32% of women subjects consumed less than 75% of the Korean recommended dietary allowance for vitamin B6. Major dietary sources of vitamin B6 for Korean young men were pork, rice, onion, potatoes, garlic, mackerel, spinach, egg, carrot, and chicken. Major dietary sources of vitamin B6 for young Korean women were rice, pork, kimchi, beef, bean sprout, potatoes, dumplings, and onions. As for major dietary sources of vitamin B6, the top 20 foods provided nearly 89% of total vitamin B6 in men and 70% of total vitamin B6 in women. Intake of vitamin B6 by young Koreans was adequate in general, but the supply of vitamin B6 for Koreans should be based on sufficient amounts and specific food sources because fewer foods contribute to vitamin B6 intake of Koreans and these foods are mainly of plant origin and less bioavailable.
16309215	We have recently demonstrated that breast cancer cell (BCC) lines undergo apoptosis following phagocytosis of S. cerevisiae. Arabinoxylan rice bran extract (MGN-3/Biobran) has been shown to enhance this effect. Since previous data were obtained using cells in suspension, the present study was undertaken to examine monolayer BCC that more closely model cancer cell growth. Monolayers of both breast cancer (MCF-7) and non-tumorgenic breast epithelial (MCF-10A) cells grown on glass coverslips were cultured with heat-killed S. cerevisiae at a ratio of 1:10, respectively. MCF-7 cells phagocytized yeast in a time-dependent manner, 6.9% to 14.3% from 1 h to 4 h, respectively, with a 2-fold increase in the presence of MGN-3. On the other hand, there was virtually no phagocytosis of yeast by MCF-10A cells. Similarly, yeast-induced apoptosis of MCF-7 cells occurred in a time-dependent manner, from 11.5% after 1 h to 21.7% after 4 h, and was enhanced in the presence of MGN-3. These data may have implications in the treatment of breast cancer.
16310363	Trans-cinnamic acid (CA) can be isomerized to cis-CA in Arabidopsis thaliana extract under sunlight. Piperonylic acid treatment of Arabidopsis under ultraviolet (UV) light increased the level of cis-CA in these treated tissues. Similarly, cis-CA was also detected from Oryza sativa seedlings grown under sunlight. These results suggest that cis-CA may occur in planta. Application of cis-CA to seedlings of both wild type Arabidopsis and auxin-insensitive mutants, aux1 and axr2, resulted in nearly identical dose response curves in root growth, indicating that the mode of action by which cis-CA affects plant growth is different from that of auxins. According to root growth inhibition assay, cis-CA is nearly 10 times more active than trans-CA. These results suggest that cis-CA is a unique plant growth regulator but its in vivo function remains to be elucidated.
16310370	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) roots were fed with L-ascorbic acid (AsA) and its putative precursors to observe AsA and oxalate concentrations and the resistance of rice to chilling, water stress, and Al toxicity. AsA concentration was significantly enhanced in both shoots and roots of rice seedlings by feeding with D-glucose or L-galactono-gamma-lactone. AsA or L-galactono-gamma-lactone treatment increased accumulation of oxalate mainly in soluble form, while these treatments decreased electrolyte leakage from root cells, H2O2 and lipid peroxidation level in rice seedlings subjected to chilling, water stress, and Al toxicity. They also alleviated the inhibition on root growth by Al. These results indicated that AsA and its immediate precursor protected plants against the oxidative damages induced by various stresses. However, 0.5 mM AsA and 10 mM L-galactono-gamma-lactone treatment had no significant effect on superoxide dismutase and catalase activity and ascorbate-peroxidase activities. Enhanced Al resistance caused by AsA and L-galactono-gamma-lactone may possibly be resulted from increased level of oxalate, which acts as metal chelator. Thus it is proposed that manipulation of AsA and oxalate biosynthesis through enhancement of L-galactono-gamma-lactone level in plants could be a strategy for improving abiotic stress tolerance.
16310723	In the postgenomic era, metabolomics is expected to be the newest useful omics science for functional genomics. However, in plant science, the present metabolomics technology cannot be considered a universal tool to perfectly elucidate perturbations imposed on sample plants although this is desired by plant physiologists. Despite it being an immature technology, metabolomics has already been used as a powerful tool for precise phenotyping, particularly for industrial application. Metabolomics is the best technology for the analysis of large mutant or transgenic libraries of model experimental plants, such as Arabidopsis, rice, etc. Here, we review the applications and technical problems of metabolomics. We also suggest the potential of metabolomics for plant post-genomic science.
16310727	Seeds of rice (Oryza sativa L. var. Koshihikari) were soaked in water for 2 d. Thereafter, the embryo containing an apical meristem was inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens by piercing a site of the husk overlying the embryonic apical meristem with a needle that had been dipped in an A. tumefaciens inoculum. The inoculated seeds were then grown to maturation (T0 plants) and allowed to pollinate naturally to set seeds (T1 plants) in pots under nonsterile conditions. To examine the transformation by various means, three different strains of A. tumefaciens were used for transformation: an M-21 mutant, which is an avirulent mutant with a Tn5 insertion in the iaaM gene, and two LBA4404 strains each with a different binary vector. Five different lines of evidence were demonstrated the transformation: the altered phenotype and its inheritance by the next generation, histochemical detection of beta-glucuronidase, resistance to hygromycin B, detection of the transgene by PCR and rescue of a plasmid consisting of the integrated T-DNA and the flanking rice genome DNA. Transformation efficiency of T1 plants was estimated to be 40% and 43% by PCR and a histochemical assay of beta-glucuronidase, respectively.
16310915	Total Hg and methyl-Hg were evaluated in mine wastes, soils, water, and vegetations from the Wuchuan Hg-mining areas, Guizhou, China. Mine wastes contain high total Hg concentrations, ranging from 79 to 710 microg g(-1), and methyl-Hg from 0.32 to 3.9 ng g(-1). Total Hg in soil samples range from 0.33 to 320 microg g(-1) and methyl-Hg from 0.69 to 20 ng g(-1). Vegetations present a high average total Hg concentration of 260 ng g(-1), which greatly exceeds the maximum Hg concentration of 20 ng g(-1) recommended by the Chinese National Standard Agency for food sources. The rice samples contain elevated methyl-Hg concentrations, ranging from 4.2 to 18 ng g(-1). Stream water collected from Hg-mining areas is also contaminated, containing Hg as high as 360 ng l(-1), and methyl-Hg reaches up to 5.7 ng l(-1). Data indicate heavy Hg-contaminations and significant conversion of methyl-Hg in the study areas.
16311724	The broad-spectrum stem rust resistance gene Sr2 has provided protection in wheat against Puccinia graminis Pers. f. sp. tritici for over 80 years. The Sr2 gene and an associated dark pigmentation trait, pseudo-black chaff (PBC), have previously been localized to the short arm of chromosome 3B. In a first step towards the positional-based cloning of Sr2, we constructed a high-resolution map of this region. The wheat EST (wEST) deletion bin mapping project provided tightly linked cDNA markers. The rice genome sequence was used to infer the putative gene order for orthologous wheat genes and provide additional markers once the syntenic interval in rice was identified. We used this approach to map six wESTs that were collinear with the physical order of the corresponding genes on rice chromosome 1 suggesting there are no major re-arrangements between wheat and rice in this region. We were unable to separate by recombination the tightly linked morphological trait, PBC from the stem rust resistance gene suggesting that either a single gene or two tightly linked genes control both traits.
16313414	To determine the profile of volatile compounds responsible for the aroma of Soumbala produced spontaneously and with pure and mixed cultures of Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus pumilus. Traditional and controlled fermentation trials of African locust bean with pure and mixed starter cultures of B. subtilis (B7, B9 and B15) and B. pumilus (B10) were performed. Aroma volatiles were analysed using Likens-Nikerson method coupled with gas chromatography and mass spectrophotometry. Sensory analysis of Soumbala as well as rice dishes prepared with each type of Soumbala were carried out by 10 panellists. In total 116 compounds were identified. They included pyrazines, aldehydes, ketones, esters, alcohols, acids, alkanes, alkenes, amines, pyridines, benzenes, phenols, sulphurs, furans and other compounds. Using principal component analysis for comparison, the aroma profiles of the Soumbala samples could be separated into three groups. The sensory evaluation showed variable acceptability. However, it was noticed that Soumbala samples produced with starter cultures were scored higher than traditionally prepared Soumbala. Aroma volatiles and organoleptic properties of Soumbala vary according to the Bacillus isolates involved in the fermentation. This study contributes to the selection of Bacillus starter cultures for controlled production of Soumbala.
16313593	Oryza officinalis Wall. ex Watt. is an agriculturally important but seriously endangered species of wild rice. To obtain more accurate estimates of population structure for improved conservation planning of the species, genetic variability at 14 microsatellite DNA loci was examined in population samples covering most of the species' range in China. Considerable genetic variability (overall Na = 1.886, P = 62%, HO = 0.056, HE = 0.216, and HS = 0.277) was detected at the 14 loci in 442 individuals of the 18 natural populations. The evaluation of partitioning of genetic variability (FST = 0.442) suggested high genetic differentiation among the Chinese O. officinalis populations. An overall value of Nm = 0.316 suggested limited gene flow occurred among the sampled populations. Most of the populations showed heterozygote deficits in tests of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and significantly positive FIS values. This could be due to some inbreeding occurring in this predominantly outcrossing species. For effective in situ conservation and restoration genetics, maintenance of significant historical processes is particularly important, including high outbreeding, considerable gene flow, and large population effective sizes. The high FST values detected among populations in this study are instructive for adopting a conservation plan that includes representative populations with the greatest genetic variation for either in situ conservation management or germplasm collection expeditions.
16313639	Crop-to-crop transgene flow will affect seed purity of non-GM rice varieties, leading to unwanted consequences. To assess the maximum probability of transgene outflow in rice (Oryza sativa), gene flow experiments were conducted with three cultivation patterns with different mixed-planting proportions of adjacent GM and non-GM rice at two sites in Fujian and Hainan Provinces of China. Three GM rice lines containing two insect-resistance genes (Bt/CpTI) and their non-GM counterparts were used in the experiments to allow natural hybridization to occur. A hygromycin resistance gene was used as a selective marker for identifying hybrids. Based on the examination of > 645 700 geminated seeds, the result showed low frequencies (0.05-0.79%) of transgene flow from GM to non-GM rice at close spacing, although with significant variation among mixed-planting proportions. It is concluded that rice transgene flow will occur at a very low frequency (< 1.0%), even if the GM rice is planted at close spacing with non-GM rice, and high densities of GM rice cultivated in the neighborhood of non-GM rice will increase the probability of outcrossing with the non-GM rice.
16315095	We introduced two novel types of pig (Sus scrofa) cytochrome P450, CYP2B22 and CYP2C49, into rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv. 'Nipponbare') to produce herbicide-tolerant plants and to confirm the metabolic activities of the cytochrome P450 species. In germination tests, both types of transgenic plants showed tolerance to various herbicides with different modes of action. CYP2B22 rice plants showed tolerance towards 12 herbicides including chlortoluron (100 microM), amiprofos-methyl (2.5 microM), pendimethalin (10 microM), metolachlor (2.5 microM), and esprocarb (20 microM). CYP2C49 rice plants showed tolerance towards 13 herbicides, including chlortoluron (100 microM), norflurazon (0.5 microM), amiprofos-methyl (2.5 microM), alachlor (0.8 microM), and isoxaben (1 microM). The herbicide tolerance was considered to reflect the substrate specificity of the introduced P450 species. We used (14)C-labeled metolachlor and norflurazon to confirm the P450 activity in the transgenic rice plants. The herbicides were metabolized more quickly in the transgenic rice plants than in the nontransgenic rice plants. Therefore, CYP2B22 and CYP2C49 rice plants became more tolerant to various herbicides than nontransgenic control plants because of accelerated metabolism of the herbicides by the introduced P450 species. Assuming that public and commercial acceptance is forthcoming, these transgenic rice plants may become useful tools for the breeding of herbicide-tolerant crops.
16315177	By using an in vivo hydroponic rice seedling culture system, we investigated the physiological and biochemical responses of a model rice japonica cultivar Nipponbare to salt stress using proteomics and classical biochemical methods. Yoshida's nutrient solution (YS) was used to grow rice seedlings. YS-grown 18-day-old seedlings manifested highly stable and reproducible symptoms, prominently the wilting and browning of the 3rd leaf, reduced photosynthetic activity, inhibition in overall seedling growth, and failure to develop new (5th) leaf, when subjected to salt stress by transferring them to YS containing 130 mM NaCl for 4 days. As leaf response to salt stress is least investigated in rice by proteomics, we used the 3rd leaf as source material. A comparison of 2-DE protein profiles between the untreated control and salt-stressed 3rd leaves revealed 55 differentially expressed CBB-stained spots, where 47 spots were increased over the control. Of these changed spots, the identity of 33 protein spots (27 increased and 5 decreased) was determined by nESI-LC-MS/MS. Most of these identified proteins belonged to major metabolic processes like photosynthetic carbon dioxide assimilation and photorespiration, suggesting a good correlation between salt stress-responsive proteins and leaf morphology. Moreover, 2-DE immunoblot and enzymatic activity analyses of 3rd leaves revealed remarkable changes in the key marker enzymes associated with oxidative damage to salt stress: ascorbate peroxidase and lipid peroxidation were induced, and catalase was suppressed. These results demonstrate that hydroponic culture system is best suited for proteomics of salt stress in rice seedling.
1631532	To examine possible reduction in dietary cadmium (Cd) intake, 24-h duplicates of diet were collected twice in the same village in north-eastern Japan, once in 1976-1977 (71 samples) and then in 1989 (198 samples) and analyzed for Cd contents. The statistical analysis by sex and age decade showed that there has been a significant (P less than 0.01-0.05, depending on sex and age) reduction in Cd intake during this 12-year period. The intake by men at 30-59 years was 28.8 micrograms/day (as a geometric mean of 41 samples) in 1976-1977 and 20.8 micrograms/day in 1989, indicating some 28% reduction, whereas the value for women of the same age range was 24.9 micrograms/day in 1976-1977 and 15.7 micrograms/day in 1989, with a reduction by 37%. A similar reduction in Cd contents was observed in cooked rice samples collected in 1980 and 1990 in the vicinity of the study field. Probable reasons for the improvement are discussed.
16315595	We reported the isolation and identification of 10828 putative full-length cDNAs (FL-cDNA) from an indica rice cultivar, Minghui 63, with the long-term goal to isolate all full-length cDNAs from indica genome. Comparison with the databases showed that 780 of them are new rice cDNAs with no match in japonica cDNA database. Totally, 9078 of the FL-cDNAs contained predicted ORFs matching with japonica FL-cDNAs and 6543 could find homologous proteins with complete ORFs. 53% of the matched FL-cDNAs isolated in this study had longer 5'UTR than japonica FL-cDNAs. In silico mapping showed that 9776 (90.28%) of the FL-cDNAs had matched genomic sequences in the japonica genome and 10046 (92.78%) had matched genomic sequences in the indica genome. The average nucleotide sequence identity between the two subspecies is 99.2%. A majority of FL-cDNAs (90%) could be classified with GO (gene ontology) terms based on homology proteins. More than 60% of the new cDNAs isolated in this study had no homology to the known proteins. This set of FL-cDNAs should be useful for functional genomics and proteomics studies.
16316704	Ochratoxin A (OTA) was extracted from 84 rice samples and rice products by using accelerated solvent extraction (ASE) and analysed with liquid chromatography coupled with fluorescence detection. Samples were collected from rice cultivars, local markets and supermarkets; 64 were of non-organic and 20 of organic production. 7.8% of non-organic samples had OTA levels from 4.3 to 27.3 microg/kg and in 30% of organic samples was detected the presence of this mycotoxin varying from 1.0 to 7.1 microg/kg. OTA presence was confirmed by methyl-ester derivatization. Rice and rice products labelled with denomination of origin (DO) were not detected OTA due to the fact that its production has implemented food safety measures such as good agricultural practices (GAPs), good manufacturing practices (GMPs), and the hazard analysis and critical control point (HACCP) system. Estimated daily intake of OTA was 0.17 ng/kg b.w./day. This value reflects that the analysed samples have a minimal contribution to toxicological risk.
16316980	Low temperature is one of the major abiotic stresses limiting the productivity and the geographical distribution of many important crops. To gain a better understanding of chilling stress responses in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare), we carried out a comparative proteomic analysis. Three-week-old rice seedlings were treated at 6 degrees C for 6 or 24 h and then recovered for 24 h. Chilling treatment resulted in stress phenotypes of rolling leaves, increased relative electrolyte leakage, and decreased net photosynthetic rate. The temporal changes of total proteins in rice leaves were examined using two-dimensional electrophoresis. Among approximately 1,000 protein spots reproducibly detected on each gel, 31 protein spots were down-regulated, and 65 were up-regulated at least at one time point. Mass spectrometry analysis allowed the identification of 85 differentially expressed proteins, including well known and novel cold-responsive proteins. Several proteins showed enhanced degradation during chilling stress, especially the photosynthetic proteins such as Rubisco large subunit of which 19 fragments were detected. The identified proteins are involved in several processes, i.e. signal transduction, RNA processing, translation, protein processing, redox homeostasis, photosynthesis, photorespiration, and metabolisms of carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, and energy. Gene expression analysis of 44 different proteins by quantitative real time PCR showed that the mRNA level was not correlated well with the protein level. In conclusion, our study provides new insights into chilling stress responses in rice and demonstrates the advantages of proteomic analysis.
16317034	Large areas of northern China have alkaline soil due to the accumulation of sodium carbonates (NaHCO3, Na2CO3). To understand better how plants can tolerate alkaline soil, a cDNA library was prepared from rice (Oryza sativa L.) roots grown in the presence of NaHCO3 stress. A cDNA clone isolated from this library was identified by a homology search as a mitochondrial ATP synthase 6 kDa subunit gene (RMtATP6; GenBank accession nos AB055076, BAB21526). In transformed yeast and tobacco protoplasts, the RMtATP6 protein was localized in mitochondria using the green fluorescent protein (GFP) marker. Analysis of RMtATP6 mRNA levels suggested that the expression of this gene was induced by stress from sodium carbonates and other sodium salts. Transgenic tobacco overexpressing the RMtATP6 gene had greater tolerance to salt stress at the seedling stage than untransformed tobacco. Among the other genes for F1F0-ATPase of rice, some were found to be up-regulated by some environmental stresses and some were not. These data suggest that the RMtATP6 protein acts as a subunit of ATP synthase, and is expressed in response to stress from several salts, with the other genes coding for the subunits of the same ATP-synthase.
16317127	Iron deficiency is endemic in much of the world, and food system-based approaches to eradication may be viable with new plant breeding approaches to increase the micronutrient content in staple crops. It is thought that conventional plant breeding approaches provide varieties of rice that have 400-500% higher iron contents than varieties commonly consumed in much of Asia. The efficacy of consuming high-iron rice was tested during a 9-mo feeding trial with a double-blind dietary intervention in 192 religious sisters living in 10 convents around metro Manila, the Philippines. Subjects were randomly assigned to consume either high-iron rice (3.21 mg/kg Fe) or a local variety of control rice (0.57 mg/kg Fe), and daily food consumption was monitored. The high-iron rice contributed 1.79 mg Fe/d to the diet in contrast to 0.37 mg Fe/d from the control rice. The 17% difference in total dietary iron consumption compared with controls (10.16 +/- 1.06 vs. 8.44 +/- 1.82 mg/d) resulted in a modest increase in serum ferritin (P = 0.10) and total body iron (P = 0.06) and no increase in hemoglobin (P = 0.59). However, the response was greater in nonanemic subjects for ferritin (P = 0.02) and body iron (P = 0.05), representing a 20% increase after controlling for baseline values and daily rice consumption. The greatest improvements in iron status were seen in those nonanemic women who had the lowest baseline iron status and in those who consumed the most iron from rice. Consumption of biofortified rice, without any other changes in diet, is efficacious in improving iron stores of women with iron-poor diets in the developing world.
16318281	Ferrous iron toxicity is the main factor limiting the productivity of rice in gleyic paddy soils. In this study, an F2 and an equivalent F3 populations derived from a japonica/indica cross of rice, Longza8503/IR64, were raised under iron-enriched solution cultures, and used to map QTLs controlling ferrous iron toxicity tolerance. A genetic linkage map consisting of 101 SSR markers was constructed to determine the position and nature of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting Fe2+ toxicity tolerance. Three characters, i.e., leaf bronzing index (LBI), plant height (PH) and maximum root length (MRL) were evaluated for the F2 plants and F3 lines and the parents at the seedling stage in nutrient solution. A total of 20 QTLs for LBI, PH and MRL under the Fe2+ stress were detected over 10 of the 12 rice chromosomes, reflecting multigenic control of these traits. QTLs controlling LBI were located at the region of RM315-RM212 on chromosome 1, RM6-RM240 on chromosome 2 and RM252-RM451 on chromosome 4. Compared with other mapping results: (1) the QTL for LBI located at the region of RM252-RM451 on chromosome 4 was identical with the QTL for decreased chlorophyll content on a rice function map. Another QTL for LBI located at the region of RM315-RM212 on chromosome 1 was linked with the QTL for chlorophyll content which located at the region of C178-R2635 on a rice function map. (2) The third QTL for LBI located at the region of RM6-RM240 on choromosome 2 was linked with the QTL for potassium uptake located at the region of RZ58-CDO686 under potassium deficiency stress.
16318282	We identified and isolated a dual-specificity kinase gene,OsSTY kinase (O. sative serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase) gene, from rice. OsSTY kinase gene encoded a protein of 417 amino acids with calculated molecular weight 45926 Da and isoelectric point 7.689. OsSTY kinase is involved in the multiple stresses signaling pathway. Low- and high-temperature (4 degrees C and 37 degrees C) stresses significantly induce the expression of OsSTY kinase. The kinase is also up-regulated upon wounding (by cut), salicylic acid (SA) and ethophon (ET). Moreover,ectopic expression of OsSTY kinase gene in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae ste7/ste7 mutant partially suppressed the pseudohyphal development defect of the strain under the condition of nitrogen starvation. Ste7 is a serine/threonine/tyrosine kinase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which shares 32% identity and 50% similarity with OsSTY kinase in the kinase domains. This finding suggested that OsSTY kinase could correct, at least partially, the defect of ste7/ste7 mutant.
16321601	Mealtime glycemic load is associated with risk for chronic disease. This study examined whether complementary foods (vinegar and peanut products) could lower postprandial glycemia without altering mealtime glycemic load. Eleven healthy subjects consumed two test meals (bagel and juice, glycemic load=81; or chicken and rice, glycemic load=48) under three conditions (control, vinegar, or peanut) using a randomized, crossover design. Vinegar or peanut ingestion reduced the 60-minute glucose response to both test meals by approximately 55%, but these reductions were significant only for the high-glycemic load meal. After consumption of the high-glycemic load meal, energy consumption for the remainder of the day was weakly affected by the vinegar and peanut treatments, a reduction of approximately 200 to 275 kcal (P=.111). Regression analyses indicated that 60-minute glucose response to the test meals explained 11% to 16% of the variation in later energy consumption. In conclusion, the addition of vinegar or peanut products to a high-glycemic load meal significantly reduced postprandial glycemia.
1632200	Aspergillus ochraceus IMI 317911 was screened to be a high cellobiase producing strain (2.40 IU/ml). The mixed batch cultivation of Trichoderma reesei QM 9414/Rut C-30 and A. ochraceus IMI 317911 resulted in a balanced enzyme as compared to singly grown cultures. The milled rice straw (6%, w/v) as carbon source was found suitable for production of cellulases resulting in a Filter Paper Activity (FPA) of 1.83 IU/ml and a cellobiase production of 1.63 IU/ml after 7 days of stirred cultivation. An overall cellulase productivity of 10.89 IU/l/h and an enzyme ratio to cellobiase of 1.12 was achieved.
16322516	Wheat-barley chromosome addition lines are useful genetic resources for a variety of studies. In this study, transcript accumulation patterns in Betzes barley, Chinese Spring wheat, and Chinese Spring-Betzes chromosome addition lines were examined with the Barley1 Affymetrix GeneChip probe array. Of the 4014 transcripts detected in Betzes but not in Chinese Spring, 365, 271, 265, 323, 194, and 369 were detected in wheat-barley disomic chromosome addition lines 2(2H), 3(3H), 4(4H), 7(5H), 6(6H), and 1(7H), respectively. Thus, 1787 barley transcripts were detected in a wheat genetic background and, by virtue of the addition line in which they were detected, were physically mapped to barley chromosomes. We validated and extended our approach to physically map barley genes to the long and short arms of chromosome 6(6H). Our physical map data exhibited a high level of synteny with homologous sequences on the wheat and/or rice syntenous chromosomes, indicating that our barley physical maps are robust. Our results show that barley transcript detection in wheat-barley chromosome addition lines is an efficient approach for large-scale physical mapping of genes.
16322522	This study was conducted to determine whether quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling traits of agronomic importance detected in recombinant inbred lines (RILs) are also expressed in testcross (TC) hybrids of rice. A genetic map was constructed using an RIL population derived from a cross between B5 and Minghui 63, a parent of the most widely grown hybrid rice cultivar in China. Four TC hybrid populations were produced by crossing the RILs with three maintaining lines for the widely used cytoplasmic male-sterile (CMS) lines and the genic male-sterile line Peiai64s. The mean values of the RILs for the seven traits investigated were significantly correlated to those of the F1 hybrids in the four TC populations. Twenty-seven main-effect QTL were identified in the RILs. Of these, the QTL that had the strongest effect on each of the seven traits in the RILs was detected in two or more of the TC populations, and six other QTL were detected in one TC population. Epistatic analysis revealed that the effect of epistatic QTL was relatively weak and cross combination specific. Searching publicly available QTL data in rice revealed the positional convergence of the QTL with the strongest effect in a wide range of populations and under different environments. Since the main-effect QTL is expressed across different testers, and in different genetic backgrounds and environments, it is a valuable target for gene manipulation and for further application in rice breeding. When a restorer line that expresses main-effect QTL is bred, it could be used in a number of cross combinations.
16323000	The degree of aluminium tolerance varies widely across cereal species, with oats (Avena spp.) being among the most tolerant. The objective of this study was to identify molecular markers linked to aluminium tolerance in the diploid oat A. strigosa. Restriction fragment length polymorphism markers were tested in regions where comparative mapping indicated the potential for orthologous quantitative trait loci (QTL) for aluminium tolerance in other grass species. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and sequence-characterized amplified region (SCAR) markers were used to provide additional coverage of the genome. Four QTL were identified. The largest QTL explained 39% of the variation and is possibly orthologous to the major gene found in the Triticeae as well as Alm1 in maize and a minor gene in rice. A second QTL may be orthologous to the Alm2 gene in maize. Two other QTL were associated with anonymous markers. Together, these QTL accounted for 55% of the variation. A SCAR marker linked to the major QTL identified in this study could be used to introgress the aluminium tolerance trait from A. strigosa into cultivated oat germplasm.
16323277	A suppression subtractive hybridization technique was used to screen for brown planthopper (BPH)-inducible genes in rice (Oryza sativa). cDNAs from a BPH-resistant rice line (B5) infested by BPH were used as the tester population, and mixed cDNAs from a BPH-sensitive line (MH63) and a control (uninfested B5) as the driver population. After hybridizing and cloning, forward and reverse subtraction cDNA libraries were obtained, containing 5700 clones. These clones were further analyzed by differential gene expression screening, and 154 clones that were clearly induced by BPH were identified. Sequencing analysis and homology searching showed that these clones represent 136 single genes, which were assigned to functional categories, including 10 putative cellular functions, according to categories established for Arabidopsis. The 136 genes include 21 known to be related to disease, wound and other stresses, most of which were found to be up-regulated in BPH feeding responses. In addition, an Oryza cysteine inhibitor and a beta-glucosidase belonging to the 21 genes group were found in the rice response to BPH feeding, these two genes have previously been shown to be induced in plant responses to chewing insects. Our results not only confirm that several identical genes are activated in defense mechanisms against both sucking and chewing insects, but also show that genes have overlapping functions in both pathogen and insect resistance.
16324848	It is well known that zinc (Zn) is one of the micronutrients essential for normal growth and development of plants. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the regulation of plant growth by Zn are still not completely understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the signalling transduction pathways activated by Zn. We show that Zn elicited a remarkable increase in myelin basic protein (MBP) kinase activities. By immunoblot analysis, we suggest that Zn-activated 40- and 42-kDa MBP kinases are mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK). Pre-treatment of rice roots with reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger, sodium benzoate, was able to effectively prevent Zn-induced MAPK activation. However, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI-3K) inhibitor, LY294002, was unable to inhibit Zn-induced MAPK activation. These results suggest that the ROS may function in the Zn-triggered MAPK signalling pathway in rice roots.
16326928	The C-class MADS box gene AGAMOUS (AG) plays crucial roles in Arabidopsis thaliana development by regulating the organ identity of stamens and carpels, the repression of A-class genes, and floral meristem determinacy. To examine the conservation and diversification of C-class gene function in monocots, we analyzed two C-class genes in rice (Oryza sativa), OSMADS3 and OSMADS58, which may have arisen by gene duplication before divergence of rice and maize (Zea mays). A knockout line of OSMADS3, in which the gene is disrupted by T-DNA insertion, shows homeotic transformation of stamens into lodicules and ectopic development of lodicules in the second whorl near the palea where lodicules do not form in the wild type but carpels develop almost normally. By contrast, RNA-silenced lines of OSMADS58 develop astonishing flowers that reiterate a set of floral organs, including lodicules, stamens, and carpel-like organs, suggesting that determinacy of the floral meristem is severely affected. These results suggest that the two C-class genes have been partially subfunctionalized during rice evolution (i.e., the functions regulated by AG have been partially partitioned into two paralogous genes, OSMADS3 and OSMADS58, which were produced by a recent gene duplication event in plant evolution).
16328082	Historic Japanese culture evolved from at least two distinct migrations that originated on the Asian continent. Hunter-gatherers arrived before land bridges were submerged after the last glacial maximum (>12,000 years ago) and gave rise to the Jomon culture, and the Yayoi migration brought wet rice agriculture from Korea beginning approximately 2,300 years ago. A set of 81 Y chromosome single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) was used to trace the origins of Paleolithic and Neolithic components of the Japanese paternal gene pool, and to determine the relative contribution of Jomon and Yayoi Y chromosome lineages to modern Japanese. Our global sample consisted of >2,500 males from 39 Asian populations, including six populations sampled from across the Japanese archipelago. Japanese populations were characterized by the presence of two major (D and O) and two minor (C and N) clades of Y chromosomes, each with several sub-lineages. Haplogroup D chromosomes were present at 34.7% and were distributed in a U-shaped pattern with the highest frequency in the northern Ainu and southern Ryukyuans. In contrast, haplogroup O lineages (51.8%) were distributed in an inverted U-shaped pattern with a maximum frequency on Kyushu. Coalescent analyses of Y chromosome short tandem repeat diversity indicated that haplogroups D and C began their expansions in Japan approximately 20,000 and approximately 12,000 years ago, respectively, while haplogroup O-47z began its expansion only approximately 4,000 years ago. We infer that these patterns result from separate and distinct genetic contributions from both the Jomon and the Yayoi cultures to modern Japanese, with varying levels of admixture between these two populations across the archipelago. The results also support the hypothesis of a Central Asian origin of Jomonese ancestors, and a Southeast Asian origin of the ancestors of the Yayoi, contra previous models based on morphological and genetic evidence.
16328148	The full lengths of three genome segments of Iranian wheat stripe virus (IWSV) were amplified by reverse transcription (RT) followed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using a primer complementary to tenuivirus conserved terminal sequences. The segments were sequenced and found to comprise 3469, 2337, and 1831 nt, respectively. The gene organization of these segments is similar to that of other known tenuiviruses, each displaying an ambisense coding strategy. IWSV segments, however, are different from those of other viruses with respect to the number of nucleotides and deduced amino acid sequence for each ORF. Depending on the segment, the first 16-22 nt at the 5' end and the first 16 nt at the 3' end are highly conserved among IWSV and rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV), rice stripe virus (RSV) and maize stripe virus (MStV). In addition, the first 15-18 nt at the 5' end are complementary to the first 16-18 nt at the 3' end. Phylogenetic analyses showed close similarity and a common ancestor for IWSV, RHBV, and Echinochloa hoja blanca virus (EHBV). These findings confirm the position of IWSV as a distinct species in the genus Tenuivirus.
16328230	Bacterial blight, caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), is one of the most serious diseases of rice worldwide. Thirty bacterial blight resistance (R) genes (21 dominant genes and 9 recessive genes) in rice have been identified. They are the main sources for the genetic improvement of rice for resistance to Xoo. However, little is known about the recessive R genes. To clone and characterize the recessive R genes, we fine-mapped xa13, a fully recessive gene for Xoo resistance, to a DNA fragment of 14.8 kb using the map-based cloning strategy and a series of sequence-based molecular markers. Sequence analysis of this fragment indicated that this region contains only two apparently intact candidate genes (an extensin-like gene and a homologue of nodulin MtN3) and the 5' end of a predicted hypothetical gene. These results will greatly facilitate the isolation and characterization of xa13. Four PCR-based markers, E6a, SR6, ST9 and SR11 that were tightly linked to the xa13 locus, were also developed. These markers will be useful tools for the marker-assisted selection of xa13 in breeding programs.
16328232	The mature spike rachis of wild emmer [Triticum turgidum L. ssp. dicoccoides (Körn. ex Asch. and Graebner) Thell.] disarticulates spontaneously between each spikelet leading to the dispersion of wedge-type diaspores. By contrast, the spike rachis of domesticated emmer (Triticum turgidum L. ssp. turgidum) fails to disarticulate and remains intact until it is harvested. This major distinguishing feature between wild and domesticated emmer is controlled by two major genes, brittle rachis 2 (Br-A2) and brittle rachis 3 (Br-A3) on the short arms of chromosomes 3A and 3B, respectively. Because of their biological and agricultural importance, a map-based analysis of these genes was undertaken. Using two recombinant inbred chromosome line (RICL) populations, Br-A2, on chromosome 3A, was localized to a approximately 11-cM region between Xgwm2 and a cluster of linked loci (Xgwm666.1, Xbarc19, Xcfa2164, Xbarc356, and Xgwm674), whereas Br-A3, on chromosome 3B, was localized to a approximately 24-cM interval between Xbarc218 and Xwmc777. Comparative mapping analyses suggested that both Br-A2 and Br-A3 were present in homologous regions on chromosomes 3A and 3B, respectively. Furthermore, Br-A2 and Br-A3 from wheat and Btr1/Btr2 on chromosome 3H of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) also were homologous suggesting that the location of major determinants of the brittle rachis trait in these species has been conserved. On the other hand, brittle rachis loci of wheat and barley, and a shattering locus on rice chromosome 1 did not appear to be orthologous. Linkage and deletion-based bin mapping comparisons suggested that Br-A2 and Br-A3 may reside in chromosomal areas where the estimated frequency of recombination was approximately 4.3 Mb/cM. These estimates indicated that the cloning of Br-A2 and Br-A3 using map-based methods would be extremely challenging.
16328642	The authors describe a modified method for determining the size of implants in augmentation mammaplasty. Preoperatively, 35 women filled their brassieres with rice bags and expressed their opinion and wishes. Postoperatively, all of them were satisfied with their new breasts.
16329594	This article studied on the food safety of HPT protein (Hygromycin B Phosphotransferase), a kind of plant selectable marker gene expression product, which mainly included the quantity and quality detection of HPT in the SCK transgenic rice plants, the possible dietary intakes and its stability in the simulative digestive system. HPT cDNA fragment was inserted into the prokaryotic expressing vector pBV222 for the expression of 6His-HPT fusion protein. The inclusion bodies were denatured by 8 mol/L urea and purifiee with metal chelate affinity chromatography on Ni-NTA agarose under denaturing condition. The purified 6His-HPT were used to immunize rabbit and BALB/C mice for the preparation of the polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies, and the double-Ab sandwich ELISA to detect HPT was established then. Concerning the sensitivity assessment of HPT protein, the amino acid sequences of HPT was compared with the other allergens and the simulative digestive experiment in vitro was carried out too. 6His-HPT protein was obtained with the purity up to 95%. The specificity of antisera and ascites was detected by Western blot, which showed specific binding reaction between the antibodies to the purified 6His-HPT proteins and their expressed product. The double-Ab sandwich ELISA system was established successfully with the sensitivity of 30 ng/ml. The HPT expression level in the leaves of transgenic rice was proved in the range of 80 - 150 ng/ml, yet we cannot detect HPT protein in the seeds of the same rice. There showed no comparability in the amino acid sequences between HPT and other allergens, and HPT protein was digested quickly in the simulated stomach and intestines liquids. All the results showed that the expression level of HPT in the SCK transgenic rice plants is very low and they are not stable in the simulative digestive system. So we inferred that under the current detection level, HPT protein might not be able to induce any safety problem. Yet further study on the acute toxicity and sensitivity experiments by the animals need to be carried out, and the results will be reported in the near future.
16329876	Methane-oxidising bacteria (MOB) play an important role in the reduction of methane emissions from rice agriculture. In rice fields, they are subjected to many environmental and field management parameters, which may have a significant impact on their community composition. To study this in greater detail, the community structure of methano- and methylo-trophic bacteria was investigated in a rice field in northern Italy during the summer 1999 and compared to a microcosm study described previously. We used PCR-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis applying 16S rDNA (9alpha and 10gamma) and mxaF (methanol-dehydrogenase) primer sets. In parallel, population size and activity of MOB were determined. This study provides the first comprehensive investigation of different compartments (bulk soil, rhizosphere, rhizoplane, and homogenate) throughout an entire rice-growing season in the field. Lower cell numbers of MOB were detected in the field compared to the microcosms, possibly due to lower CH4 concentrations in the soil pore water. In both studies, growth of MOB occurred predominantly at the root surface (rhizoplane) and in the root (homogenate), whereas cell numbers in bulk soil showed only minor changes throughout the season. Molecular analysis detected only few changes in alpha-proteobacterial methylotrophs during the season, whereas a higher variability was detected in gamma-proteobacteria. Nevertheless, the sequences of electrophoretic bands showed that the diversity in the field study and in the microcosms was comparable. Activity patterns of MOB and the population structure of methylotrophic bacteria agreed well between both studies, even though the detected quantities differed. Extrapolations of microcosm data to the field scale are thus possible, but should be used carefully when concerning quantitative changes.
16329880	Methane production was studied in an Italian rice field over two consecutive years (1998, 1999) by measuring the rates of total and acetate-dependent methanogenesis in soil and root samples. Population dynamics of methanogens were followed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and real-time PCR targeting archaeal SSU rRNA genes. Rates of total and acetate-dependent methanogenesis in soil increased during the season, reached a maximum at about 70-80 days after flooding and then decreased again. In contrast, the size of the archaeal community remained relatively constant. Therefore, the seasonal changes in the methanogenic processes were probably not caused by changes in the size of the methanogenic community but in its activity. During the 1998/1999 winter period, a slight decrease in archaeal cell numbers was found. In both years, the dominant groups were methanogens affiliated with Rice cluster I, Methanosaetaceae, Methanosarcinaceae and Methanobacteriaceae. Correspondence analysis showed, however, that the archaeal community structure was different in 1998 and 1999. Methanogens with potential acetoclastic activity made up a larger fraction of the total archaeal community in 1999 (32-53%) than in 1998 (20-32%). Furthermore, the frequency of Methanosaetaceae relative to Methanosarcinaceae was significantly higher in 1999 than in 1998. This difference could be explained by the much lower soil acetate concentrations in 1999, to which Methanosaetaceae are physiologically better adapted than Methanosarcinaceae. Over the season, however, the composition of the archaeal community remained relatively constant and thus did not reflect the observed seasonal change in CH(4) production activity. The analysis of rice root samples in 1999 showed that the archaeal community structure on the roots was similar to that in soil but with acetoclastic methanogens being relatively less common. This observation is in agreement with domination of CH(4) production by H(2)/CO(2)-dependent methanogenesis on roots. Our study provided a link between size, structure and function of the methanogenic community in an Italian rice field.
16329891	Production of CH(4) in anoxic rice field soil is stimulated by the addition of rice straw. Previous experiments showed that acetate and propionate are the most important intermediates of the carbon flow to CH(4), and accumulate if CH(4) production is inhibited by 2-bromoethanesulfonate (BES). However, some unidentified compounds were found to accumulate in addition. We now identified them as benzoate, phenylpropionate, and phenylacetate by comparison of the retention times in HPLC chromatograms with authentic standards and by mass spectrometry. These aromatic compounds accumulated only to concentrations <100 microM, especially in soil amended with rice straw (stem, sheath or blade straw). Phenylpropionate and benzoate were the most abundant aromatic intermediates contributing up to 4% to total CH(4) production. Phenylacetate, on the other hand, contributed very little (<0.3%). Gibbs free energies (DeltaG) were calculated for different anaerobic degradation pathways of the aromatic compounds at the actual incubation conditions. Conversion of benzoate to acetate, CO(2) and H(2) was strongly exergonic (DeltaG = -86 kJ mol(-1)) under methanogenic conditions, but became less exergonic (DeltaG = -30 kJ mol(-1)) when CH(4) production was inhibited. The primary oxidation of phenylpropionate was only exergonic for alpha-oxidation (i.e. phenylacetate as product) but not for beta-oxidation (i.e. benzoate as product). However, the DeltaG values for the complete degradation of phenylpropionate to acetate, CO(2) and H(2) were similar for both pathways and were also similar to those of benzoate degradation. Collectively, the results suggest that aromatic compounds are minor intermediates of anaerobic degradation of organic matter in rice field soil, and are syntrophically degraded by coupling to methanogenesis.
16329896	Methanogenesis in rice field soils starts soon after flooding while potentially competing processes like reduction of sulphate and iron take place. Early methanogenesis is mainly driven by hydrogen, while later in the season acetate tends to become more important. Anaerobic ciliates are abundant during this period, and their endosymbionts use hydrogen produced by the ciliates to reduce carbon dioxide to methane. These endosymbiotic methanogens are protected from the competition for substrates with other bacteria that may control methanogenesis outside the protozoan cells. Thus, we focussed on early methanogenesis and on the potential contribution from ciliates and their endosymbionts. Only ciliates of the genus Metopus were found to harbour methanogens, as identified by the F(420)-fluorescence of the endosymbionts. We followed the population dynamics of the ciliates with time, and calculated the ratio of symbiotic methane production to overall methanogenesis. Symbiotic methane production was calculated from the species-specific numbers of methanogenic endosymbionts times the cell-specific methane production of the symbionts. According to this calculation, the symbionts' contribution to overall methane production was only 6.4% at the beginning and decreased with time. In a second experiment, colchicine and cycloheximide were used to inhibit all eukaryotes, comparing the remaining methane production rate to a control without inhibitors. In the inhibition experiment, the contribution from symbionts decreased from 40% to 6% during the first days after flooding, and dropped to near zero within 2 weeks. However, nearly all methane produced from H(2)/CO(2) could be attributed to the ciliates' symbionts between days 5 and 10 after flooding. Both experiments showed that the contribution of methanogenic symbionts to overall methane production is a transient phenomenon, restricted to the first 2 weeks.
16329932	Emissions of the greenhouse gas methane from Arctic wetlands have been studied extensively, though little is known about the ecology and community structure of methanogenic archaea that catalyze the methane production. As part of a project addressing microbial transformations of methane in Arctic wetlands, we studied archaeal communities in two wetlands (Solvatnet and Stuphallet) at Spitsbergen, Norway (78 degrees N) during two summer seasons. Directly extracted peat community DNA and enrichment cultures of methanogenic archaea were analyzed by nested PCR combined with denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and subsequent sequencing of 16S rRNA gene fragments. Sequences affiliated with Methanomicrobiales, Methanobacteriaceae, Methanosaeta and Group I.3b of the uncultured crenarchaeota were detected at both sites. Sequences affiliated with Methanosarcina were recovered only from the site Solvatnet, while sequences affiliated with the euryarchaeotal clusters Rice Cluster II and Sediment 1 were detected only at the site Stuphallet. The phylogenetic affiliation of the recovered sequences suggested a potential of both hydrogenotrophic and acetoclastic methanogenesis at both sites. At Solvatnet, there were clear temporal trends in the archaeal community structure over the Arctic summer season. The archaeal community composition was significantly affected by factors influencing the activity of the overall bacterial community, as measured by in situ emissions of CO2. Methane emissions at both sites were influenced more by peat temperatures and thaw depth than by the archaeal community structure. Enrichment cultures for methanogenic archaea determined that most of the methanogens detected directly in peat could grow in culture at 10 degrees C. Culture based biases were indicated in later enrichment steps by the abundant growth of a Methanosarcina strain that was not detected directly in peat samples.
16329940	We report first insights into a representative genome of rice cluster I (RC-I), a major group of as-yet uncultured methanogens. The starting point of our study was the methanogenic consortium MRE50 that had been stably maintained for 3 years by consecutive transfers to fresh medium and anaerobic incubation at 50 degrees C. Process-oriented measurements provided evidence for hydrogenotrophic CO(2)-reducing methanogenesis. Assessment of the diversity of consortium MRE50 suggested members of the families Thermoanaerobacteriaceae and Clostridiaceae to constitute the major bacterial component, while the archaeal population was represented entirely by RC-I. The RC-I population amounted to more than 50% of total cells, as concluded from fluorescence in situ hybridization using specific probes for either Bacteria or Archaea. The high enrichment status of RC-I prompted construction of a large insert fosmid library from consortium MRE50. Comparative sequence analysis of internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions revealed that three different RC-I rrn operon variants were present in the fosmid library. Three, approximately 40-kb genomic fragments, each representative for one of the three different rrn operon variants, were recovered and sequenced. Computational analysis of the sequence data resulted in two major findings: (i) consortium MRE50 most likely harbours only a single RC-I genotype, which is characterized by multiple rrn operon copies; (ii) seven genes were identified to possess a strong phylogenetic signal (eIF2a, dnaG, priA, pcrA, gatD, gatE, and a gene encoding a putative RNA-binding protein). Trees exemplarily computed for the deduced amino acid sequences of eIF2a, dnaG, and priA corroborated a specific phylogenetic association of RC-I with the Methanosarcinales.
16329979	Cyanobacteria are one of the main components of the microbiota in rice paddy fields and significantly contribute to its fertilization. The diversity and changes of the cyanobacterial assemblage were investigated during a rice growth season and after harvest in a paddy field located in Fujian Province, China. The cyanobacterial populations were analyzed by a semi-nested PCR, followed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis. Twenty-four phylotypes were identified from the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles. The number of cyanobacterial phylotypes showed a seasonal variation and reached a peak in September, both in the upper (0-5 cm) and the deeper (10-15 cm) soil fractions. Some cyanobacterial sequences were only present during the rice growth season, while others were only found after harvest.
16330066	The impact of oxygen diffusion from plant roots on the soil redox in the root zone in flooded rice bays was investigated using two Australian rice growing soils. The rates of production of Fe(II) and Mn(II) in pore water resulting from the reduction of soil minerals was used to gauge the extent of development of anaerobic conditions and the time taken for equilibrium to establish. Soil concentrations of readily reducible Fe were 13-28 times greater than Mn, making Fe a more reliable indicator of redox conditions than Mn. In addition, Mn(II) concentrations reached equilibrium far more rapidly than Fe, which made the identification of any contribution to soil redox by oxygen diffusing from rice plant roots difficult to observe. Dissection of soil cores showed that more than 80% of the rice root mass occurred in the top 4 cm of soil, suggesting that any contribution roots may make to the redox potential of the flooded soils would occur in this region. However, studies conducted indicated that the diffusion of oxygen from the surface floodwater into soil pore water in the 2.5 cm layer of soil was so substantial that it would mask any contribution made by rice plant roots to the overall soil redox in this root zone.
16330527	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that the interaction between abscisic acid (ABA) and ethylene may be involved in mediating the post-anthesis development of spikelets in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Two rice genotypes were field-grown, and the changes of ABA, ethylene, and 1-aminocylopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) levels in spikelets during grain filling and their relationships with endosperm-division and grain-filling rates were investigated. The results showed that earlier-flowering superior spikelets exerted dominance over later-flowering inferior spikelets in endosperm cell-division and grain-filling rates. The two genotypes behaved the same. Later-flowering spikelets had higher levels of ethylene and ACC than earlier-flowering spikelets. The ethylene evolution rate was significantly and negatively correlated with the cell division and grain filling rates. By contrast to ethylene, later-flowering spikelets contained a lower ABA content/concentration and showed a low content ratio of ABA to ACC than earlier-flowering ones. The cell-division and grain-filling rates were significantly and positively correlated with both ABA contents and the ratio of ABA to ACC. Application of cobalt ion (inhibitor of ethylene synthesis) or ABA at an early grain-filling stage significantly increased endosperm cell division rate and cell number, grain-filling rate, and grain weight of inferior spikelets. Application of ethephon (an ethylene-releasing agent) or fluridone (an inhibitor of carotenoid synthesis) had the opposite effect. The results suggest that antagonistic interactions between ABA and ethylene mediate endosperm cell-division and grain-filling in rice. A higher ratio of ABA to ethylene in rice spikelets is required to maintain a faster grain-filling rate.
16331475	Two sets of reciprocal introgression line (IL) populations, i.e., ILs with Lemont as recurrent parent (IL_LT) and ILs with Teqing as recurrent parent (IL_TQ), were developed and evaluated for traits representing panicle size, including primary branch number (PBN), secondary branch number (SBN), and spikelet number per panicle (SNP). Together with the regression to recurrent parent by advanced backcross, transgressive segregations were observed for all traits. Correlation and regression analysis showed that SBN had much higher contribution to SNP than PBN. It was confirmed by the QTL analysis that many common loci were detected between SBN and SNP, in comparison with single common locus between PBN and SNP. One and three main effect QTLs (M-QTLs) were detected for PBN in IL_LT and IL_TQ, respectively. Six M-QTLs per trait per populations were associated with SBN and SNP. Less number and lower contribution of epistasis were detected in IL populations in comparison with mapping result from F2 or RI population. There were only four QTLs in fourteen loci (near 30%) commonly detected in both reciprocal IL populations implying the large impact of genetic background on QTLs expression.
16331476	Introgression lines (ILs) are useful tools for precise mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and the evaluation of gene action or interaction in theoretical studies. A set of 159 ILs carrying variant introgressed segments from Chinese common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.), collected from Dongxiang county, Jiangxi Province, in the background of Indica cultivar (Oryza sativa L.), Guichao 2, was developed using 126 polymorphic simple sequence repeats (SSR) loci. The 159 ILs represented 67.5% of the genome of O. rufipogon. All the ILs have the proportions of the recurrent parent ranging from 92.4 to 99.9%, with an average of 97.4%. The average proportion of the donor genome for the BC(4)F(4) population was about 2.2%. The mean numbers of homozygous and heterozygous donor segments were 2 (ranging 0-8) and 1 (ranging 0-7), respectively, and the majority of these segments had sizes less than 10 cM. QTL analysis was conducted based on evaluation of yield-related traits of the 159 ILs at two sites, in Beijing and Hainan. For 6 out of 17 QTLs identified at two sites corresponding to three traits (panicles per plant, grains per panicle and filled grains per plant, respectively), the QTLs derived from O. rufipogon were usually associated with an improvement of the target trait, although the overall phenotypic characters of O. rufipogon were inferior to that of the recurrent parent. Of the 17 QTLs, 5 specific QTLs strongly associated with more than one trait were observed. Further analysis of the high-yielding and low-yielding ILs revealed that the high-yielding ILs contained relatively less introgressed segments than the low-yielding ILs, and that the yield increase or decrease was mainly due to the number of grain. On the other hand, low-yielding ILs contained more negative QTLs or disharmonious interactions between QTLs which masked trait-enchancing QTLs. These ILs will be useful in identifying the traits of yield, tolerance to low temperature and drought stress, and detecting favorable genes of common wild rice.
16332011	The reaction mechanism of C6H5 + C6H5NO involving four product channels on the doublet-state potential energy surface has been studied at the B3LYP/6-31+G(d, p) level of theory. The first reaction channel occurs by barrierless association forming (C6H5)2NO (biphenyl nitroxide), which can undergo isomerization and decomposition. The second channel takes place by substitution reaction producing C12H10 (biphenyl) and NO. The third and fourth channels involve direct hydrogen abstraction reactions producing C6H4NO + C6H6 and C6H5NOH + C6H4, respectively. Bimolecular rate constants of the above four product channels have been calculated in the temperature range 300-2000 K by the microcanonical Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory and/or variational transition-state theory. The result shows the dominant reactions are channel 1 at lower temperatures (T < 800 K) and channel 3 at higher temperatures (T > 800 K). The total rate constant at 7 Torr He is predicted to be k(t) = 3.94 x 10(21) T(-3.09) exp(-699/T) for 300-500 K, 2.09 x 10(20) T(-3.56) exp(2315/T) for 500-1000 K, and 1.51 x 10(2) T(3.30) exp(-3043/T) for 1000-2000 K (in units of cm3 mol(-1) s(-1)), agreeing reasonably with the experimental data within their reported errors. The heats of formation of key products including biphenyl nitroxide, hydroxyl phenyl amino radical, and N-hydroxyl carbazole have been estimated.
16332535	The FUSED (FU) Ser/Thr protein kinase family has a key role in the hedgehog signaling pathway known to control cell proliferation and patterning in fruit flies and humans . The genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice each encode a single Fu ortholog, but their role is unknown. Here, we show that cytokinesis-defective mutants, which we named two-in-one (tio), result from mutations in Arabidopsis Fu. Phenotypic analysis of tio mutants reveals an essential role for TIO in conventional modes of cytokinesis in plant meristems and during male gametogenesis. TIO also has a key role in nonconventional modes of cytokinesis (cellularization) during female gametogenesis. We demonstrate that TIO is tightly localized to the midline of the nascent phragmoplast and remains associated with the expanding phragmoplast ring. These data reveal the evolution of a divergent role for the Fu kinase family as an essential phragmoplast-associated protein that functions in different cell type-specific modes of cytokinesis in plants.
16332744	Cucurbit yellow vine disease (CYVD) is caused by disease-associated Serratia marcescens strains that have phenotypes significantly different from those of nonphytopathogenic strains. To identify the genetic differences responsible for pathogenicity-related phenotypes, we used a suppressive subtractive hybridization (SSH) strategy. S. marcescens strain Z01-A, isolated from CYVD-affected zucchini, was used as the tester, whereas rice endophytic S. marcescens strain R02-A (IRBG 502) was used as the driver. SSH revealed 48 sequences, ranging from 200 to 700 bp, that were present in Z01-A but absent in R02-A. Sequence analysis showed that a large proportion of these sequences resembled genes involved in synthesis of surface structures. By construction of a fosmid library, followed by colony hybridization, selection, and DNA sequencing, a phage gene cluster and a genome island containing a fimbrial-gene cluster were identified. Arrayed dot hybridization showed that the conservation of subtracted sequences among CYVD pathogenic and nonpathogenic S. marcescens strains varied. Thirty-four sequences were present only in pathogenic strains. Primers were designed based on one Z01-A-specific sequence, A79, and used in a multiplex PCR to discriminate between S. marcescens strains causing CYVD and those from other ecological niches.
16332801	The expression of nitrogenase genes of Herbaspirillum sp. B501 associated in shoot (leaf and stem) of wild rice, Oryza officinalis, was studied by means of reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) targeted at the nifH gene. RT-PCR analyses indicate that nifH transcript was detected exclusively from nitrogen-fixing cells of gfp-tagged strain B501gfp1 in both free-living and endophytic states by using a constitutive gfp gene transcript as a positive control. Transcription of nifH and nitrogen fixation in free-living cells were induced maximally at a 2% O2 concentration and repressed in free air (21% O2). nifH transcription was monitored in the endophytic cells by using total RNA extracted from B501gfp1-inoculated wild rice plants during daily light-dark cycles. The level of nifH transcription in planta varied dramatically, with a maximum during the light period. Moreover, the light radiation enhanced nifH expression even in free-living cells grown in culture. These results suggest that in planta nitrogen fixation by the endophyte shows a daily rhythm determined by the plant's light environment.
16332933	Both small GTPase and its activating protein (GAP) superfamilies exist in various eukaryotes. The small GTPases regulate a wide variety of cellular processes by cycling between active GTP- and inactive GAP-bound conformations. The GAPs promote GTPase inactivation by stimulating the GTP hydrolysis. In this study, we identified 111 small GTPases and 85 GAPs in rice, 65 GAPs in Arabidopsis, 90 small GTPases in Drosophila melanogaster, and 35 GAPs in Saccharomyces cerevisiaeby genome-wide analysis. We then analyzed and compared a total of 498 small GTPases and 422 GAPs from these four eukaryotic and human genomes. Both animals and yeast genomes contained five families of small GTPases and their GAPs. However, plants had only four of these five families because of a lack of the Ras and RasGAP genes. Small GTPases were conserved with common motifs, but GAPs exhibited higher and much more rapid divergence. On the basis of phylogenetic analysis of all small GTPases and GAPs in five eukaryotic organisms, we estimated that their ancestors had small sizes of small GTPases and GAPs and their large-scale expansions occurred after the divergence from their ancestors. Further investigation showed that genome duplications represented the major mechanism for such expansions. Nonsynonymous substitutions per site (Ka) and synonymous substitutions per site (Ks) analyses showed that most of the divergence due to a positive selection occurred in common ancestors, suggesting a major functional divergence in an ancient era.
16333324	Rice synthesizes and accumulates high levels of 2 distinct classes of seed storage proteins and sorts them to separate intracellular compartments, making it an ideal model system for studying the mechanisms of storage protein synthesis, transport, and deposition. In rice, RNA localization dictates the initial site of storage protein synthesis on specific subdomains of the cortical endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and there is a direct relation between the RNA localization site and the final destination of the encoded protein within the endomembrane system. Current data support the existence of 3 parallel RNA localization pathways leading from the nucleus to the actively synthesizing cortical ER. Additional pathways may exist for the synthesis of cytoplasmic and nuclear-encoded proteins targeted to organelles, the latter located in a stratified arrangement in developing endosperm cells. The study of rice mutants, which accumulate unprocessed glutelin precursors, indicates that these multiple pathways prevent nonproductive interactions between different classes of storage proteins that would otherwise disrupt protein sorting. Indeed, it appears that the prevention of disruptive interactions between different classes of storage proteins plays a key role in their biosynthesis in rice. In addition to highlighting the unique features of the plant endomembrane system and describing the relation between RNA and protein localization, this minireview will attempt to address a number of questions raised by recent studies on these processes.
16334963	To assess antiulcerogenic properties of 3 dietary oils. 8 healthy adult mares. A protocol to induce gastric ulcers was used and included 240 mL of water plus corn oil, refined rice bran oil, or crude rice bran oil administered each day for 6 weeks according to a 4 x 4 Latin square randomized crossover design with 5-week washout intervals. A 7-day alternating feed deprivation period was included between weeks 5 and 6. Omeprazole was administered daily for the last 14 days of each washout interval. Endoscopic examinations of the stomach were performed at 0, 5, and 6 weeks, and the number (0 to 4 scale) and severity (0 to 5 scale) of ulcers were scored. Gastric fluid was collected at 0 and 5 weeks. Median body weight significantly increased by 29 kg (range, 10 to 50 kg). Mean +/- SE gastric fluid pH significantly decreased from 4.9 +/- 0.4 to 3.1 +/- 0.3 over 5 weeks, and total volatile fatty acid concentration significantly decreased over time. Mean +/- SE severity of nonglandular ulcers significantly increased from 0.4 +/- 0.1 to 1.2 +/- 0.2 over 5 weeks. Nonglandular ulcers significantly increased in number (mean +/- SE, 1.3 +/- 0.2 to 3.0 +/- 0.2) and severity (mean +/- SE, 1.2 +/- 0.2 to 2.6 +/- 0.2) during the 7-day alternating feed deprivation period. No effects of treatment were detected. In this model dietary oils did not prevent gastric ulcers from forming in the nonglandular portion of the stomach of horses.
16335770	Tables of food frequency and nutrient intake were created for a random sample of 266 lactating women from different areas of Shiraz city, Islamic Republic of Iran. Women were interviewed at home in 1998 and nutrient intake was calculated from a food frequency questionnaire and 24-hour dietary recall. On average, daily consumption was 2 servings of dairy foods, 4 of bread/rice, 2 of vegetables and 3 of fruits; weekly consumption was 5 servings of meat and 3 of legumes. Estimated average daily energy intake was 2250 kcal. Protein and vitamin C intake were significantly higher than United States recommended dietary allowances (RDA), while iron and calcium intake were significantly lower. Protein intake was insufficient among 9.0% of women, calcium in 35.7%, iron in 18.8% and vitamin C in 15.0%.
16335881	A forty-eight-year-old man presented with multiple pinhead to rice-sized papules on the face. Histopathologic examination showed a typical syringoma and dilated hair follicles containing several vellus hairs in the middle of a fibrotic stroma. We discuss the possible pathomechanism between these two conditions in the same lesion.
16336045	The majority of well-documented cases of horizontal transfer between higher eukaryotes involve the movement of transposable elements between animals. Surprisingly, although plant genomes often contain vast numbers of these mobile genetic elements, no evidence of horizontal transfer of a nuclear-encoded transposon between plant species has been detected to date. The most mutagenic known plant transposable element system is the Mutator system in maize. Mu-like elements (MULEs) are widespread among plants, and previous analysis has suggested that the distribution of various subgroups of MULEs is patchy, consistent with horizontal transfer. We have sequenced portions of MULE transposons from a number of species of the genus Setaria and compared them to each other and to publicly available databases. A subset of these elements is remarkably similar to a small family of MULEs in rice. A comparison of noncoding and synonymous sequences revealed that the observed similarity is not due to selection at the amino acid level. Given the amount of time separating Setaria and rice, the degree of similarity between these elements excludes the possibility of simple vertical transmission of this class of MULEs. This is the first well-documented example of horizontal transfer of any nuclear-encoded genes between higher plants.
16338038	A tiered protocol for assessing ecological risks has been applied to the rice pesticide profoxydim. The initial assessment (Tier I) was based on toxicity exposure ratio (TER) calculations based on laboratory data using a worst-case rice scenario. The first refinement (Tier II) was based on direct toxicity assessment (DTA) of water samples collected during a field-mesocosm study. Finally, a higher-tier assessment on the in situ assessment of paddy community responses (field-mesocosm-Tier III) was performed. A successive application of three pesticides, the herbicides azimsulfuron, propanil and the insecticide malathion, was used as reference controls. The refined assessments indicated a lower risk than that predicted from TER estimations. DTA-based Tier II showed toxicity effects only for concentrations above the recommended dose of profoxydim. Effects for reference controls were observed in DTA which were not expected from Tier I. The field-mesocosm study confirmed these effects but also showed that they were transient and of low relevance.
16339361	The economic and scientific importance of the cereals has motivated a rich history of research into their genetics, development, and evolution. The nearly completed sequence of the rice genome is emblematic of a transition to high-throughput genomics and computational biology that has also pervaded study of many other cereals. The relatively close (ca. <50 million years old) relationships among morphologically diverse cereals native to environments that sample much of global geographic diversity make the cereals particularly attractive for comparative studies of plant genome evolution. Extensive germplasm resources, largely a byproduct of their economic importance, together with growing collections of defined mutants, provide foundations for a host of post-genomic studies to shed more light on the relationship between sequence and function in this important group. Using the rapidly growing capabilities of several informatics resources, genomic data from model cereals are likely to be leveraged tremendously in the study and improvement of a wide range of crop plants that sustain much of the world's population, including many which still lack primary genomic resources.
16339807	Maize (Zea mays or corn) plays many varied and important roles in society. It is not only an important experimental model plant, but also a major livestock feed crop and a significant source of industrial products such as sweeteners and ethanol. In this study we report the systematic analysis of contiguous sequences of the maize genome. We selected 100 random regions averaging 144 kb in size, representing about 0.6% of the genome, and generated a high-quality dataset for sequence analysis. This sampling contains 330 annotated genes, 91% of which are supported by expressed sequence tag data from maize and other cereal species. Genes averaged 4 kb in size with five exons, although the largest was over 59 kb with 31 exons. Gene density varied over a wide range from 0.5 to 10.7 genes per 100 kb and genes did not appear to cluster significantly. The total repetitive element content we observed (66%) was slightly higher than previous whole-genome estimates (58%-63%) and consisted almost exclusively of retroelements. The vast majority of genes can be aligned to at least one sequence read derived from gene-enrichment procedures, but only about 30% are fully covered. Our results indicate that much of the increase in genome size of maize relative to rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) is attributable to an increase in number of both repetitive elements and genes.
16339852	Ser/Arg-rich (SR) proteins play important roles in the constitutive and alternative splicing of pre-mRNA. We isolated 20 rice (Oryza sativa) genes encoding SR proteins, of which six contain plant-specific characteristics. To determine whether SR proteins modulate splicing efficiency and alternative splicing of pre-mRNA in rice, we used transient assays in rice protoplasts by cotransformation of SR protein genes with the rice Waxy(b) (Wx(b))-beta-glucuronidase fusion gene. The results showed that plant-specific RSp29 and RSZp23, an SR protein homologous to human 9G8, enhanced splicing and altered the alternative 5' splice sites of Wx(b) intron 1. The resulting splicing pattern was unique to each SR protein; RSp29 stimulated splicing at the distal site, and RSZp23 enhanced splicing at the proximal site. Results of domain-swapping experiments between plant-specific RSp29 and SCL26, which is a homolog of human SC35, showed the importance of RNA recognition motif 1 and the Arg/Ser-rich (RS) domain for the enhancement of splicing efficiencies. Overexpression of plant-specific RSZ36 and SRp33b, a homolog of human ASF/SF2, in transgenic rice changed the alternative splicing patterns of their own pre-mRNAs and those of other SR proteins. These results show that SR proteins play important roles in constitutive and alternative splicing of rice pre-mRNA.
16340607	This paper describes a dynamic compartment model for evaluating the tritium level in agricultural plants after a short-term exposure to HTO vapor and its comparison with experimental results to test the predictive accuracy of the model. The model uses a time-dependent growth equation of a plant so that it can predict the contamination level of tritium depending on the stage of the growth of the plant, which is a major difference from some other compartment models using a constant crop yield. The model is able to calculate the time variable concentrations of the compartments representing the atmosphere, soil, and plants of four categories including leafy vegetables, root vegetables, grains, and tuber plants. Experimental results include the tissue free water tritium (TFWT) and the organically bound tritium (OBT) concentration of rice, soybean, cabbage, and radish exposed to HTO vapor for 1 h in the daytime at different growth stages. The model predictions showed that the model could simulate well not only the time-dependent tritium concentration of the plants but also the effect of the growth stage of the plant at the exposure time. Comparison of the model predictions with the experimental results suggested that the model could predict reasonably well the observed TFWT and OBT concentrations of the plants considered.
16340942	Information on modifiable lifestyle factors associated with constipation is limited, especially among non-Western populations. We examined associations between dietary intake and self-reported constipation in young Japanese women. Cross-sectional study. A total of 1,705 female Japanese dietetic students aged 18-20 years and free of current disease and current dietary counseling. Dietary intake was estimated over a 1-month period with a validated, self-administered, diet history questionnaire, and lifestyle variables including self-reported constipation were assessed by a second questionnaire designed for this survey. A total of 436 women (26%) reported themselves to be 'constipated'. A multivariate odds ratio (OR) for women in the highest quartile of rice intake was 0.47 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.33, 0.68) compared with the lowest. Additionally, women in the highest category of coffee intake had a multivariate OR of 0.67 (0.47, 0.94) compared with women in the lowest. Conversely, women in the highest quartile of confectionery intake had a multivariate OR of 1.54 (1.12, 2.13) compared with women in the lowest. Moreover, a multivariate OR for constipation for women in the highest quartile of Japanese and Chinese tea intake was 1.49 (1.09, 2.05) compared with women in the lowest. Neither total dietary fiber intake nor other lifestyle factors examined were associated with constipation. The consumption of rice and coffee was inversely associated with and that of confectioneries and Japanese and Chinese tea was positively associated with a prevalence of self-reported constipation.
16341429	Since microorganisms are important components in the structure and function of water systems, the present paper reports work done to identify groups making up bacterial communities present in rice irrigation water. To this end, water samples were collected in five rice-growing areas of Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil. The identification of the main bacterial groups found in flooded areas was carried out based on colony morphology, taking into account shape, elevation, and edges. Internal and external cell structure was characterized as cocci or rod, gram-positive or gram-negative, and spore forming or not. The results obtained regarding density and bacterial distribution in the water samples from rice growing areas of RS showed a higher abundance of morphotypes of bacterial colonies in the irrigation channels (F(1,12) = 8.74; p < 0.05) when compared to the culture plots in the five production regions, and in the final culture phase (F(1,12) = 8.86; p < 0.05). In the five rice production areas the occurrence of gram-positive and spore-forming rods was prevalent. Rods showed more abundance (F(1,26) = 15.12; p < 0.05) in the early culture phase, with a significant prevalence of gram-positive rods (F(1,26) = 25.99; p < 0.05) in all rice growing regions under investigation. The group of spore-forming bacteria was significantly more abundant (F(1,30) = 14.06; p < 0.05) when compared with the non-spore-forming ones in all investigated regions. Data showed that the irrigated rice crop affects the density and morphotype colonies in the bacteria found in the water used to flood rice-growing plots.
16342143	The definition of dominance or epistasis is generally on the basis of a descriptive characterization for these crops in the field, such as yield per hectare and the weight of grain. Since these trait examinations lack molecular information, how to precisely predict the phenotypic changes in filial generation is still a problem in heterosis studies. For rice, the genetic information caused by hybridization can be archived through analyzing of proteomes of rice seeds. Differential analysis of proteomes was introduced for the rice seeds of three cultivars, 9311, PA64S and LYP9, an elite rice hybrid from cross between 9311 and PA64S. In the three rice endosperms, the expression profiles of proteins were similar with the stained spots of 47 +/- 1, 46 +/- 0.6 and 44 +/- 0.6, for 9311, PA64S and LYP9, respectively; however, the number of proteins expressed in the rice embryos was significantly increased with the stained spots of 395.3 +/- 12.9, 350 +/- 9.2, and 389.3 +/- 16.4, for 9311, PA64S and LYP9, respectively. Importantly, the image comparisons and protein identifications have revealed in significantly different embryo protein spots among the three rice cultivars. By carefully analyzing these different 2-DE spots, many of them from the three embryos were shown to display a mirrored relationships between parents and the first filial generation. Furthermore, all of stained spots in LYP9 embryo were found on the 2-DEs from its parents, indicating that there was a genetic linkage. These results suggest that proteomic approach is able to serve pedigree analysis and functional prediction for new rice breeds.
16342320	CE has been applied for the first time to the simultaneous separation of soybean and rice proteins. Treated and untreated capillaries with different effective lengths as well as separation media at different pHs were tested. For that purpose, samples and standard solutions were prepared in 25:75 ACN-water media containing 0.3% v/v acetic acid. The use of an untreated capillary of 50 cm effective length together with an 80 mM borate buffer (pH 8.5) modified with 20% v/v ACN and UV detection at 254 nm were the conditions working the best. These conditions enabled the determination of soybean proteins in gluten-free dietary commercial products elaborated with soybean protein and/or soybean flour and rice flour using the standard additions calibration method. The method was linear up to 26 mg/mL of soybean proteins, the precision (expressed as RSD) was always better than 6%, and recoveries obtained for soybean proteins when spiking commercial products were very close to 100%.
16342535	Bangkok, while improving the wastewater treatment in order to alleviate the river pollution, faces important amounts of sewage sludge. The sewage sludge contains organic matter, nitrogen and phosphorus available for plant growth. However, it may contain pathogenic microorganisms. To be used for agricultural purposes, these pathogens should be destroyed, which can be achieved with the thermophilic phase of composting. As the sewage sludge is dense and unable to compost alone (low C/N ratio), it should be mixed with an organic by-product. Two by-products available in large quantities in Thailand (wood chips and rice husk) have been tested for mixture with sewage sludge. As these products are not easy to decompose (presence of silica in rice husk and lignin/tannins in wood chips), the addition of a microbial activator for composting has been tested in controlled conditions (small quantities of organic mixtures, 55 degrees C, moisture maintained at 60-70% of water holding capacity). The monitoring of the decomposition has been made by measuring the carbon dioxide respiration, pH, organic matter and nitrogen contents and the evolution of enzymatic activities. When mixed with sewage sludge, wood chips and rice husk do not show significant differences concerning decomposition after 63 days. The use of an activator within the experimental conditions does not improve the decomposition of organic matter contained in the mixture of sewage sludge and rice husk or wood chips.
16344555	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is the most important food crop in the world and a model system for plant biology. With the completion of a finished genome sequence we must now functionally characterize the rice genome by a variety of methods, including comparative genomic analysis between cereal species and within the genus Oryza. Oryza contains two cultivated and 22 wild species that represent 10 distinct genome types. The wild species contain an essentially untapped reservoir of agriculturally important genes that must be harnessed if we are to maintain a safe and secure food supply for the 21st century. As a first step to functionally characterize the rice genome from a comparative standpoint, we report the construction and analysis of a comprehensive set of 12 BAC libraries that represent the 10 genome types of Oryza. To estimate the number of clones required to generate 10 genome equivalent BAC libraries we determined the genome sizes of nine of the 12 species using flow cytometry. Each library represents a minimum of 10 genome equivalents, has an average insert size range between 123 and 161 kb, an average organellar content of 0.4%-4.1% and nonrecombinant content between 0% and 5%. Genome coverage was estimated mathematically and empirically by hybridization and extensive contig and BAC end sequence analysis. A preliminary analysis of BAC end sequences of clones from these libraries indicated that LTR retrotransposons are the predominant class of repeat elements in Oryza and a roughly linear relationship of these elements with genome size was observed.
16345120	A two-dimensional gas chromatography/combustion/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (2D-GC/C/IRMS) system was developed for stable carbon isotopic measurements of C(2)-C(5) non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHCs) in biomass burning smoke. The 2D-GC/C/IRMS system successfully improved the accuracy and precision for the measurements of C(4) and C(5) saturated compounds in a smoke sample by selective injection of target compounds into a combustion furnace and consequently allowed us to provide complete baseline separation for all individual NMHCs. The analytical precision of the delta(13)C of each compound was better than 0.5 per thousand for more than 500 pmolC injections and 2.1 per thousand for 30 pmolC injections, which was estimated from replicate analysis of standard gases. This system was applied to the analysis of NMHCs in smoke samples collected from laboratory biomass burning experiments. From the combustion of three fuel materials (rice straw, pine wood, and maize), we found that the isotopic fractionation between fuel material and individual NMHCs is almost independent of the fuel material and thus the delta(13)C values of the fuel materials are reflected in delta(13)C values of most of NMHCs. However, only i-butane emitted from maize combustion showed anomalous (13)C-depletion of -11.6 per thousand relative to the delta(13)C value of maize. Such a large (13)C depletion suggests the specific isotopic fractionation process which is attributed to the maize combustion itself or the chemical properties of i-butane during production from a radical recombination reaction.
16345243	Indonesian tapé ketan is a fermentation in which a mold, Amylomyces rouxii Calmette (Chlamydomucor oryzae Went and Prinsen Geerligs), in combination with one or more yeasts such as Endomycopsis burtonii converts steamed rice to a sweet-sour, slightly alcoholic paste. A study was made to determine the biochemical changes that occur in the substrate during fermentation. It was found that the product was ready for consumption after fermentation at 30 degrees C for 36 to 48 h. A. rouxii used about 30% of the total rice solids, resulting in a crude protein of 12% in 96 h, whereas the combination of the mold with E. burtonii reduced total solids by 50% in 192 h, causing crude protein to increase to 16.5%. Soluble solids increased from 5 to about 67% in 36 h and decreased to 12% at 192 h with A. rouxii alone, whereas soluble solids fell to about 8% at 192 h in the fermentation with both the mold and the yeast. The mold, by itself, reduced the starch content of the rice from 78 to 10% in 48 h and to less than 2% in 144 h. The mold plus yeast reduced the starch content to about 18% in 48 h; however the "starch" content did not fall below 6% even at 192 h, presumably because the yeast was producing glycogen, which was determined along with the residual starch. With both the mold and the mold plus yeast fermentations, reducing sugars increased from less than 1% to approximately 5% in 24 h and reached maximum concentration, 16 to 17%, between 36 and 48 h. A. rouxii by itself produced a maximum of about 5.6% (vol/vol) ethanol at 96 h. The highest concentration of ethanol (8%, vol/vol) was produced by the mold plus E. burtonii at 144 h. The mold by itself reduced the starting pH from 6.3 to about 4.0 in 48 h. The combination of the mold and yeast reduced the pH to 4.1 in 144 h. The mold increased total acidity to approximately 6.2 meq of H per 100 ml, and the combination of the mold and yeast increased the total acidity to 7.8 meq of H per 100 ml in 192 h. At 48 h there was practically no difference in the volatile acidity (0.20) for the combined fermentation compared with 0.26 meq of H per 100 ml for the mold fermentation. The mold and at least one species of yeast were required to develop the rich aroma and flavor of typical Indonesian tapé.
16345257	The acetylene reduction assay for the measurement of N(2) fixation in a water-saturated paddy soil is limited by the slow diffusion of acetylene and ethylene. In laboratory incubation tests, vigorous shaking after the assay period is needed to release ethylene into the gas within the assay vials. Shaking prior to the incubation is also effective for dissolving acetylene in the water-saturated soil. However, a water-saturated soil depth of less than 10 mm during incubation is recommended. In field assays, some amounts of ethylene remain in the water-saturated soil phase of the acetylene reduction assay chamber, but stirring the water-saturated soil before sampling reduces the amount of ethylene remaining in soil. Evidence of a downward movement of acetylene and an upward movement of ethylene through rice plants was obtained. Because of the rapid transfer of acetylene to rice plant roots, an in situ acetylene reduction assay covering a rice hill is likely to detect nitrogen fixation in the proximity of roots where acetylene is easily accessible. Acetylene introduction to the water-saturated soil phase prior to assay did not greatly increase the acetylene reduction rate. Carbon dioxide enrichment in the assay chamber did not enhance nitrogen fixation in a paddy including rice and algae during a 1-day cycle.
16345351	Acetylene reduction activity of intact rice plants was measured in closed assay chambers with plants grown in water culture. Acetylene was added to the liquid medium, and the ethylene formed was measured from both gas and liquid phases. After cutoff of mineral nitrogen supply and inoculation of fresh soil, rice plants grown from the seedling stage in water culture exhibited acetylene reduction activity after a lag period. However, rice plants grown in a paddy field and transferred to water culture were more suitable for N(2) fixation studies because of their higher, less variable acetylene reduction activity. The time course of acetylene reduction was monitored by continuous circulation of gas between the gas phase and the liquid phase, and the result showed an initial 2- or 3-h period of lower activity, followed by increased and almost constant activity up to 24 h. The effects on acetylene reduction activity of aeration, ammonium, chloramphenicol, and 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea addition are reported. Ammonium was inhibitive at 0.33 mM, and its depressive effect was alleviated by ammonium uptake by the plants.
16345379	Nitrogen-fixing activity associated with different wetland rice varieties was measured at various growth stages by an in situ acetylene reduction method after the activities of blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) in the flood water and on the lower portion of the rice stem were eliminated. Nitrogen-fixing activities associated with rice varieties differed with plant growth stages. The activities increased with plant age, and the maximum was about at heading stage. The nitrogen fixed during the whole cropping period was estimated at 5.9 kg of N per ha for variety IR26 (7 days) and 4.8 kg of N per ha for variety IR36 (95 days). The population of aerobic heterotrophic N(2)-fixing bacteria associated with rice roots and stems was determined by the most-probable-number method, using semisolid glucose-yeast extract and semisolid malate-yeast extract media. The addition of yeast extract to the glucose medium increased the number and activity of aerobic heterotrophic N(2)-fixing bacteria. The glucose-yeast extract medium gave higher counts of aerobic N(2)-fixing bacteria associated with rice roots than did the malate-yeast extract medium, on which Spirillum-like bacteria were usually observed. The lower portion of the rice stem was also inhabited by N(2)-fixing bacteria and was an active site of N(2) fixation.
16345433	The attachment of Rhizobium japonicum 61A89 and Rhizobium spp. 32H1 to the roots of wheat and rice seedlings is analyzed in terms of an equilibrium model. A Langmuir adsorption isotherm describes the binding. Strain 61A89 binds to a greater extent than does strain 32H1, and the equilibrium constants for each strain binding to wheat are strongly temperature dependent. Both time-dependent dissociation and association, predicted by an equilibrium model, have been found. The dissociation rate constant for 32H1 is approximately twice that of 61A89, and each is weakly temperature dependent. The rate equation for the binding of exponentially growing 61A89 to wheat roots has been solved as a function of time. Theory and experiment both indicate that the binding at very short times is much less than the equilibrium values. The binding of Azotobacter vinelandii 12837 to wheat roots has also been measured. Root-associated Azotobacter fixes nitrogen, whereas under aerobic growth conditions, root-associated 61A89 and 32H1 do not. The effect of metabolic inhibitors and antibiotics on the binding of Rhizobia and Azotobacter was examined.
16345449	A mutant of Sclerotium rolfsii CPC 142 that secretes about two times more filter paper-degrading activity in NM-2 growth medium in submerged cultures than the parent strain was obtained by ultraviolet mutagenesis of crushed sclerotia. The production of endo-beta-glucanase in the mutant was affected to a lesser extent. With the parent strain, the addition of 3% rice bran to NM-2 medium was essential for optimal formation of cellulase, including filter paper-degrading activity. However, with the mutant the addition of rice bran to NM-2 medium increased the formation of endo-beta-glucanase but not filter paper-degrading or cellobiase activity. An altered control mechanism for the production of filter paper-degrading enzymes is suggested. The genome(s) controlling the cellulase complex of enzymes in the UV-8 mutant is not under coordinate control.
16345463	Nitrogen fixation (C(2)H(2) reduction) by algae in flooded soil was limited by interactions within the algal community. Nitrogen fixation by either indigenous algae or Tolypothrix tenuis was reduced severalfold by a dense suspension of the green alga Nephrocytium sp. Similarly, interactions between the nitrogen-fixing alga (cyanobacterium) Aulosira 68 and natural densities of indigenous algae limited nitrogen-fixing activity in one of two soils examined. This was demonstrated by developing a variant of Aulosira 68 that was resistant to the herbicide simetryne at concentrations that prevented development of indigenous algae. More nitrogen was fixed by the resistant variant in flooded soil containing herbicide than was fixed in herbicide-free soil by either the indigenous algae or indigenous algae plus the parent strain of Aulosira. Interference from indigenous algae may hamper the development of nitrogen-fixing algae introduced into rice fields in attempts to increase biological nitrogen fixation.
16345507	Propanil (3',4'-dichloropropionanilide) was a potent inhibitor of the nitrogenase activity of blue-green algae (cyanobacteria) in flooded soil, but the herbicide at comparable concentrations was not toxic to rice, protozoa, and nitrogen-fixing bacteria. Ethanol-amended flooded soils treated with propanil exhibited higher rates of nitrogenase activity than those not treated with the herbicide. The enhanced nitrogenase activity in propanil-treated soils was associated with a rise in the population of purple sulfur bacteria, especially of cells resembling Chromatium and Thiospirillum. By employing propanil and a means of excluding light from the floodwater to prevent the development of phototrophs during rice growth under lowland conditions, the relative activities of blue-green algae, photosynthetic bacteria, and the rhizosphere microflora were determined. The results suggest that the potential contribution of photosynthetic bacteria may be quite high.
16345516	Five different isolates of Aspergillus and one of Mucor were compared with a Japanese commercial strain of Aspergillus oryzae for proteolytic activity on wheat bran substrate. One isolate of Aspergillus with superior protease production, identified as Aspergillus flavus var. columnaris, showed no detectable aflatoxin production on glutinous rice or soybean substrate. Preliminary tests using this fungus as a koji mold in a traditionally operated factory resulted in a soy sauce superior in quality to that usually produced.
16345528	Rice plants (IR26 and Latisail) obtained at near heading stage from a wetland field were transferred to water culture and exposed to N(2) in a gas-tight growth chamber for 7 days to measure N(2)-fixing activities associated with the rice. The activities measured varied from 6.5 to 11.6 mumol of N(2) fixed per hill per day. The outer leaf sheath had about 2.5 times higher N(2)-fixing activities per unit weight than the root. Slight activities were also found in the basal node and inner leaf sheath. Wrapping basal parts of the stem with aluminum foil did not decrease the activities of N(2) fixation in these parts. Thus, the outer leaf sheath as well as the root are N(2)-fixing sites in rice plants. N(2) fixation found in above-ground parts is not due to photoautotrophic organisms. Less than 10% of the fixed nitrogen was translocated from the fixing sites to the leaf blades and the young panicles.
16345630	In samples of flooded soil containing blue-green algae (cyanobacteria), the presence of rice plants did not influence the nitrogenase activity of the algae. Nitrogenase activity of heterotrophic bacteria was enhanced by the presence of rice plants, but this activity was not affected by changes in plant density. The rate of nitrogen fixation in the rhizosphere, however, varied significantly among the 16 rice varieties tested. A simple method was devised to test the nitrogen-fixing activity in the root zone of rice varieties, and data were obtained showing marked differences in the activities of the 16 varieties. In tests of two varieties with dissimilar rates of nitrogen fixation in their rhizospheres, the variety which had the greater root weight and lesser shoot weight and which supported greater methane formation had the greater nitrogenase activity.
16345684	The time course profiles of C(2)H(2) reduction by intact Scirpus olneyi (bulrush), Oryza sativa (rice) and Spartina alterniflora (cordgrass) with roots in atmospheres of N(2) and 30-day-old Glycine max (soybean) in air were all immediately linear. This is the first report of immediately linear rates of C(2)H(2) reduction by grass roots removed from soil. The immediately linear profile of C(2)H(2) reduction by soil-free grass roots was achieved by preventing contact between the roots and air. Roots of soybeans and S. olneyi receiving pretreatments of O(2) above normal environmental levels for 15 min before assay exhibited a short delay in C(2)H(2) reduction. These initially nonlinear rates of C(2)H(2) reduction are attributable to transient O(2) inhibition of nitrogenase. Initial nonlinear rates of C(2)H(2) reduction were also observed with immature soybean plants and with intact plant assays of O. sativa and S. olneyi in which C(2)H(2) was injected into cylinders surrounding the plant tops. These results indicate that, apart from O(2) inhibition of nitrogenase, the diffusion of C(2)H(2) and C(2)H(4) between the nitrogen-fixing sites and the sampling ports may cause initial nonlinear rates of C(2)H(2) reduction. We conclude that in situ plant-associated nitrogenase activity should result in immediate reduction of C(2)H(2) and that linear rates are observed when the proper assay conditions are used. Our data suggest that nitrogen fixation is closely associated with the roots of S. olneyi, O. sativa, and S. alterniflora growing in salt marsh sediment.
16345914	Nitrogen-fixing activity and populations of nitrogen-fixing bacteria associated with two varieties of rice grown in dryland and wetland conditions were measured at various growth stages during the dry season. Acetylene reduction activities were measured both in the field and for the hydroponically grown rice, which was transferred from the field to water culture 1 day before assay. The activities measured by both methods were higher in wetland than in dryland rice. The population of nitrogen-fixing heterotrophic bacteria associated with rhizosphere soil, root, and basal shoots was determined by the most probable number method with semisolid glucose-yeast extract and semisolid malate-yeast extract media. The number of nitrogen-fixing bacteria was higher in wetland conditions than in dryland conditions. The difference between two conditions was most pronounced in the population associated with the basal shoot. The glucose medium gave higher counts than did the malate medium. Colonies were picked from tryptic soy agar plates, and their nitrogen-fixing activity was tested on a semisolid glucose-yeast extract medium. The incidence of nitrogen-fixing bacteria among aerobic heterotrophic bacteria in association with rhizosphere soil, root, and basal shoots was much lower in dryland rice than in wetland rice.
16346046	The application of the insecticide carbofuran (technical or formulated) to rice rhizosphere soil suspensions at 10 and 100 ppm (mug/ml) of active ingredient distinctly stimulated the autotrophic oxidation of ammonium. Evidence suggested that Nitrosomonas sp. was enriched in the presence of carbofuran. Formulated carbofuran (Furadan 3G) exhibited a more pronounced stimulation of ammonium oxidation than that exhibited by technical-grade (99.5%) carbofuran, a result which was attributed to the CaCO(3) present in the formulation.
16346245	We studied CO(2) evolution from ring-labeled [2,6-C]parathion (O,O-diethyl-O-p-nitrophenyl phosphorothioate) in the rhizosphere of rice seedlings. The soil samples (nonflooded [60% water-holding capacity] and flooded) were treated first with technical parathion (20 mug/g) and then after 10 days with ring-labeled [C]parathion. In unplanted soil, less than 5.5% of the C in the parathion was evolved as CO(2) in 15 days under both flooded and nonflooded conditions. In soil planted with rice, 9.2% of the radiocarbon was evolved as CO(2) under nonflooded conditions, and 22.6% was evolved under flooded conditions. These results suggest that soil planted with rice permits significant ring cleavage, especially under flooded conditions.
16346301	Schizokinen, a siderophore previously isolated from low-iron cultures of Bacillus megaterium and Anabaena sp., was isolated from the soil of rice fields after the annual flooding period.
16346427	An innovation is described for producing soy sauce koji mold spore inoculum by using inexpensive autoclavable plastic bags and reuseable plastic enclosures to make culture vessels. After growth, the spore mass could be dried and packaged in the same bag after removing the enclosure. Broken rice was used as the substrate for mold cultivation. Viable spore counts of 10 spores per g were obtained under optimal conditions. After drying at 50 degrees C for 6 h, the moisture content of the spore mass decreased from 35.22 to 6.32% with no significant effect on spore viability. The dry spores could be stored in the refrigerator or at room temperature for at least 3 months.
16346650	Fusarium tricinctum Fn-2B was grown on a rice substrate at room temperature (22 to 26 degrees C) for 2 weeks followed by growth at a low temperature (10 to 12 degrees C) for an additional 2 weeks. A total of 1.5 g of nivalenol and 80 mg of fusarenone-X were obtained from 2 kg of rice culture. The methods of production, extraction, and purification are described.
16346873	The isolation and characterization of 10 isolates of six Fusarium spp. from plant and soil samples collected in Southeast Asia is reported. The ability of these isolates to produce trichothecenes both in liquid cultures (CZ, GYEP, and MYRO) and on rice was assessed, and their toxigenic potential was examined by skin assay and gavage studies with culture filtrates. Although culture filtrates of all the isolates caused minor damage to test animals, only that of F. equiseti DAOM 189762 produced trichothecenes.
16346926	Soybean rhizobia were isolated from two soils with different cropping histories from Hubei province in central China. The first, from Honghu county, has been under soybean cultivation for decades. All of the isolates obtained from nodules on soybeans growing in this soil were fast-growing, acid-producing rhizobia. However, slow-growing, alkali-producing isolates were obtained at higher dilutions of the same soil. The second soil, from Wuchang county, has been under rice cultivation with no record of previous soybean cultivation. All of the soybean rhizobia recovered from this soil, and at higher dilutions of the soil, were typical slow-growing, alkali-producing isolates. The isolates from both soils were grouped by using intrinsic antibiotic resistance, gel immunodiffusion, and fluorescent-antibody procedures. Representative isolates were tested for symbiotic effectiveness with four soybean cultivars (Peking, Davis, Williams, and Ai Jiao Zao) in a pot experiment. There were significant cultivar-rhizobial interactions. Moreover, on each cultivar, there was at least one fast-growing isolate among these new rhizobia that was as effective as the highly effective slow-growing reference strain USDA 110.
16346936	A method was developed for the production and purification of gregatin A from Phialophora gregata NRRL 13198 cultured on rice at 20 degrees C for 28 days. Liquid extraction followed by high-pressure liquid chromatography afforded 247.0 mg of crystalline gregatin A per kg of rice.
16347128	Deepoxy-diacetoxyscirpenol was isolated from a laboratory culture of Fusarium graminearum grown on a solid rice substrate. It was characterized as 3-hydroxy-4,15-diacetoxy-trichothec-9,12-diene by proton nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry. This is the first report of the occurrence of this metabolite in a fungus culture.
16347428	Pseudomonas fluorescens strains antagonistic to Sarocladium oryzae, the sheath rot (Sh-R) pathogen of rice (Oryza sativa L.), were evaluated in greenhouse and field tests for suppression of Sh-R severity and enhancement of grain yields of rice. Imprints of rice seedlings and a direct-observation technique of staining roots with fluorochromes confirmed the association of P. fluorescens with roots and the ability of the strain to move along shoot tips. In greenhouse tests, P. fluorescens-treated rice plants (cv. IR 20) showed a 54% reduction in the length of Sh-R lesions. In three field tests, treatment with P. fluorescens reduced the severity of Sh-R by 20 to 42% in five rice cultivars. Bacterization of rice cultivars with P. fluorescens enhanced plant height, number of tillers, and grain yields from 3 to 160%.
16347853	The survival of indigenous and introduced strains of Azorhizobium caulinodans in flooded soil and in the rice rhizosphere, where in situ Sesbania rostrata was incorporated before the rice crop, is reported. The azorhizobia studied were both root and stem nodulating. In a pot experiment, two crop cycles each of inoculated and noninoculated Sesbania-rice were compared with two crop cycles of flooded fallow-rice. In a field experiment, the effect of repeated incorporation of in situ S. rostrata in the Sesbania-rice sequence was studied. Soils in which inoculated S. rostrata was incorporated contained about 3,000 times more azorhizobia than did soils in the flooded fallow treatment and about 50 times more azorhizobia than did soils in the noninoculated Sesbania treatment. Azorhizobial numbers in the inoculated Sesbania treatment declined toward rice harvest but remained much higher than in the flooded fallow-rice treatment. Repeated incorporation of S. rostrata increased the population density of indigenous soil azorhizobia, whereas the population of inoculated strain ORS571 (Str Spc) declined to an undetectable level; this finding suggested low competitiveness by the introduced strain. In the incorporated Sesbania treatment, the rice rhizosphere harbored significantly more A. caulinodans and supported higher nitrogenase activity per plant than did the rhizosphere of the flooded fallow-rice treatment. Sterile rice seedlings inoculated with A. caulinodans showed nitrogenase activity comparable to that of seedlings inoculated with Azospirillum lipoferum 34H, a rice root isolate. Rhizobia from Sesbania aculeata, Sesbania sesban, a Trifolium sp., and Vigna unguiculata did not support appreciable nitrogenase activity.
16348305	A fluorescent compound was isolated and purified from rice cultures of Fusarium equiseti (Alaska 2-2). Mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance data indicated that its structure is 2,2-dimethyl-5-amino-6-(3'-hydroxyl-4'-methoxyl-butyryl)-4-chromone. It is an analog of the mycotoxin fusarochromanone, in which the amino group on C-3' is replaced by a hydroxyl group and the hydroxyl group on C-4' is replaced by a methoxyl group.
16348353	An ammonium-excreting mutant (SS1) of the rice field nitrogen-fixing cyanobacterium Anabaena siamensis was isolated after ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis by selection on 500 muM l-methionine-dl-sulfoximine. SS1 grew in the presence and absence of (l)-methionine-dl-sulfoximine at a rate comparable to that of the wild-type strain, with a doubling time of 5.6 h. The rate of ammonium release by SS1 depended on cell density; it peaked at the 12th hour of growth with 8.7 mumol mg of chlorophyll h (at a chlorophyll concentration of 5 mug ml) and slowed down to almost nil at the fourth day of growth. A similar pattern of release by immobilized SS1 was observed between 12 to 20 h after loading alginate beads in packed-bed reactors at the rate of 11.6 mumol mg of chlorophyll h. The rate was later reduced significantly due to the fast growth of SS1 on the substrate. Prolonged release of ammonium at the peak level was achieved only by maintaining SS1 under continuous cultivation at low chlorophyll levels (5 to 7 mug ml). Under these conditions, nitrogen fixation in the mutant was 30% higher than that in its parent and glutamine synthetase activity was less by 50%. Immunoblot analysis revealed that SS1 and its parent have similar quantities of glutamine synthetase protein under ammonium excretion conditions. In addition, a protein with a molecular weight of about 30,000 seems to have been lost, as seen by electrophoretic separation of total proteins from SS1.
16348605	DNA was extracted from rice plants infected with mycoplasmalike organisms (MLOs) causing yellow dwarf disease. DNA of the causal agent was separated from the host DNA by repeated bisbenzimide-CsCl equilibrium density gradient centrifugations. MLO DNA cut by HindIII was ligated into plasmid Bluescript II and cloned in Escherichia coli NM522. The DNA inserts were labeled with peroxidase and employed as probes in hybridization. Southern analysis revealed that the insert in pRYD-12 consisted of one, presumably chromosomal, piece of MLO DNA, whereas the insert in pRYD-19, another recombinant plasmid, consisted of one, presumably extrachromosomal, piece of MLO DNA. Cloned DNA probes were successfully applied in dot blot hybridization for the detection of rice yellow dwarf disease MLOs in rice plants and in an insect vector, the green rice leafhopper (Nephotettix cincticeps).
16349068	To determine the reasons for the natural occurrence of nivalenol in the northernmost area of Japan, scabby wheat was harvested from 19 crop fields in Hokkaido. Mycological surveys and analysis for mycotoxin contamination were performed. Among 13 wheat grain samples harvested in seven locations, 9, 2, and 6 samples were positive for deoxynivalenol, nivalenol, and zearalenone, respectively, at levels ranging from 0.03 to 1.28 mug/g, 0.04 to 1.22 mug/g, and 2 to 25 ng/g, respectively. The predominant Fusarium species of the scabby wheat examined were F. sporotrichioides, F. avenaceum, F. poae, and F. crookwellense. Fifteen of 48 F. poae isolates and all four F. crookwellense isolates were screened for the production of seven derivatives of trichothecenes and zearalenone respectively, on rice culture. One isolate of F. poae produced diacetoxyscirpenol alone (4.3 mug/g); seven produced nivalenol (1.3 to 23.8 mug/g), 4-acetylnivalenol (0.1 to 4.6 mug/g), and diacetoxyscirpenol (0.9 to 99.5 mug/g); and five produced nivalenol alone (0.4 to 3.5 mug/g). The remaining two isolates produced no trichothecenes. Zearalenone production was not found in any isolate of F. poae tested. All isolates of F. crookwellense produced nivalenol (0.9 to 22.5 mug/g), 4-acetylnivalenol (0.5 to 25.0 mug/g), and zearalenone (1.4 to 162.5 mug/g). From these results, it is apparent that deoxynivalenol and zearalenone, and occasionally nivalenol, occur naturally throughout Hokkaido, and it is suggested that nivalenol-producing F. poae and F. crookwellense strains are responsible for the natural contamination with nivalenol found in the northernmost area of Japan. Furthermore, it was found for the first time that several isolates of F. poae distributed in Hokkaido possessed the ability to produce both type A and type B trichothecenes.
16349159	From the second-highest dilution in a most-probable-number dilution series with lactate and sulfate as substrates and rice paddy soil as the inoculum, a strain of Desulfovibrio desulfuricans was isolated. In addition to reducing sulfate, sulfite, and thiosulfate, the strain also reduced nitrate to ammonia. The latter process was studied in detail, since the ability to reduce nitrate was strongly influenced by the presence of sulfide. Sulfide inhibited both growth on nitrate and nitrate reduction. A 70% inhibition of the nitrate reduction rate was obtained at 127 muM sulfide, and growth was inhibited by 50% at approximately 320 muM sulfide and was not detectable above 700 muM sulfide. In contrast, sulfate reduction was not affected at concentrations of up to 5 mM. After growth with sulfate, an induction period of 2 to 4 days was needed before nitrate reduction started. When nitrate and sulfate were present simultaneously, only sulfate was reduced, except when sulfate was present at very low concentrations (4 muM). At higher sulfate concentrations (500 muM), nitrate reduction was temporarily halted. The affinity for nitrate uptake was extremely high (K(m) = 0.05 muM) compared with that for sulfate uptake (K(m) = 5 muM). Thus, at low nitrate concentrations this bacterium is favored relative to denitrifiers (K(m) = 1.8 to 13.7 muM) or other nitrate ammonifiers (e.g., Clostridium spp. [K(m) = 500 muM]).
16349380	Several transposable elements were isolated from the genome of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. These elements and an avirulence gene isolated from X. oryzae pv. oryzae were used as hybridization probes for a collection of X. oryzae pv. oryzae strains from the Philippines. Each of the sequences was present in multiple copies in all strains examined and showed distinct patterns of hybridizing bands. Phenograms were derived from the restriction fragment length polymorphism data obtained for each of the individual probes and for pooled data from multiple probes. The phenograms derived from the different probes differed in topology and, on the basis of bootstrap analysis, were not equally robust. For all of the probes, including the avirulence gene, some groups (even some haplotypes) consisted of multiple races. The strains were grouped into four major clusters on the basis of the two probes giving the highest bootstrap values. These groups were inferred to represent phylogenetic lineages. Three of the six races of X. oryzae pv. oryzae appeared in more than one of the lineages, and another was present in two sublineages. For three of the races, strains representing different phenetic groups were inoculated on rice cultivars carrying 10 resistance genes. Two new races were differentiated, corresponding to pathogen lineages identified by DNA typing. On the basis of DNA and pathotypic analyses, together with information on the spatial and temporal distribution of the pathogen types from this and other studies, a general picture of X. oryzae pv. oryzae evolution in the Philippines is presented.
16349527	An oxygen-insensitive microscale biosensor for methane was constructed by furnishing a previously described biosensor with an oxygen guard. The guard consisted of a glass capillary containing heterotrophic bacteria, which consumed oxygen diffusing through the tip membrane, thus preventing it from diffusing into the methane-sensing unit. Oxygen microprofiles were measured through the oxygen guard capillary, demonstrating the principle and limitations of the method. When the tip of the guard capillary was exposed to 100% oxygen at 21 degrees C, heterotrophic oxygen consumption prevented oxygen from diffusing further than 170 mum into the capillary, whereas atmospheric levels of oxygen were consumed within 50 mum. The capacity of the oxygen guard for scavenging oxygen decreased with decreasing temperature, and atmospheric levels of oxygen caused oxygen penetration to 200 mum at 5 degrees C. The sensors could be manufactured with tip diameters as small as 25 mum, and response times were about 1 min at room temperature. Pore water profiles of methane concentrations in a rice paddy soil were measured, and a strong correlation between the depths of oxygen penetration and methane appearance was observed as a function of the light regimen; this finding confirmed the role of microbenthic photosynthesis in limiting methane emissions from surfaces of waterlogged sediments and soils.
16349926	Microorganisms isolated from ragi, originally obtained from Indonesia, were selected for their ability to convert steamed glutinous rice into tapé, an Indonesian fermented food. A mixture of Chlamydomucor oryzae and Endomycopsis fibuliger had good fermentation characteristics. Prepared starters, produced by growing pure cultures on rice and drying them, were as active as pure cultures grown for 4 days on Difco mycological agar slants at 30 C.
16350003	A method of growing Rhizopus oligosporus on cooked rice as the inoculum for the fermentation of soybeans into tempeh was described and evaluated. Isolated R. oligosporus spores on glass beads survived best at low temperature and intermediate humidity. The activity of the rice-grown inoculum to ferment soybeans into tempeh did not decrease appreciably when stored desiccated for one year at 4 C or room temperature. Bacterial contaminants as high as 10 counts per g of cooked soybeans did not seem to affect the fermentation.
16351169	Efficient detection of aflatoxins B1, B2, G1, and G2 has been performed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry using a UV-absorbing ionic liquid matrix to obtain "matrix-free" mass spectra and addition of NaCl to enhance sensitivity via Na+ cationization. Using ionic alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (Et3N-alpha-CHCA) as the matrix, matrix-free mass spectra in the m/z range of interest are acquired, and the B1, B2, G1, and G2 aflatoxins are readily detected with an LOD as low as 50 fmol. The technique is fast, requires little sample preparation and no derivatization or chromatographic separation, and seems therefore to be suitable for high-throughput aflatoxin screening. It should be easily extended to other micotoxins and provide an attractive technique to control the quality of major crops subjected to huge world commercial trades such as peanuts, corn, and rice as well as to monitor bioterrorism threats by micotoxin poisoning.
16351262	The effects of collision energy (E(col)) and six different H(2)CO(+) vibrational states on the title reaction have been studied over the center-of-mass E(col) range from 0.1 to 2.6 eV, including measurements of product ion recoil velocity distributions. Ab initio and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations were used to examine the properties of complexes and transition states that might be important in mediating the reaction. Reaction is largely direct, despite the presence of multiple deep wells on the potential surface. Five product channels are observed, with a total reaction cross section at the collision limit. The competition among the major H(2) (+) transfer, hydrogen transfer, and proton transfer channels is strongly affected by E(col) and H(2)CO(+) vibrational excitation, providing insight into the factors that control competition and charge state "unmixing" during product separation. One of the more interesting results is that endoergic charge transfer appears to be controlled by Franck-Condon factors, implying that it occurs at large inter-reactant separations, contrary to the expectation that endoergic reactions should require intimate collisions to drive the necessary energy conversion.
16352697	Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDK) is a negative regulator of the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (mtPDC) that plays a key role in intermediary metabolism. OsPDK1 was identified as a gibberellin-up-regulated gene using a cDNA microarray. The full-length cDNA for OsPDK1 was 1498 bp and encoded a predicted polypeptide of 363 amino acids. Genomic DNA analysis showed the presence of another isoform of PDK, OsPDK2, in rice. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis revealed differential expression of the two isoforms. OsPDK1 was expressed in leaf blade and leaf sheath but not in callus and root, while OsPDK2 was expressed constitutively in all tissues examined. Maximum expression of OsPDK1 in leaf sheath was detected by Northern blot analysis when seedlings were treated with 5 microM GA3 for 24 h. OsPDK1 expression was up-regulated by GA3, and there was little effect of other plant hormones. Mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) activity was reduced compared with control plants in 2-week-old seedlings treated with GA3. The beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene, driven by a 2,067 bp OsPDK1 promoter region fragment, was mainly expressed in the aleurone layer of germinating seed and leaf sheath. Transgenic rice expressing PDK1 RNAi had altered vegetative growth with reduced accumulation of vegetative tissues. These results suggest that gibberellin modulates the activity of mtPDC by regulating OsPDK1 expression and subsequently controlling plant growth and development.
16353550	The significance of AVR1-CO39, an avirulence gene of the blast fungus corresponding to Pi-CO39(t) in rice cultivars, during the evolution and differentiation of the blast fungus was evaluated by studying its function and distribution in Pyricularia spp. When the presence or absence of AVR1-CO39 was plotted on a dendrogram constructed from ribosomal DNA sequences, a perfect parallelism was observed between its distribution and the phylogeny of Pyricularia isolates. AVR1-CO39 homologs were exclusively present in one species, Pyricularia oryzae, suggesting that AVR1-CO39 appeared during the early stage of evolution of P. oryzae. Transformation assays showed that all the cloned homologs tested are functional as an avirulence gene, indicating that selection has maintained their function. Nevertheless, Oryza isolates (isolates virulent on Oryza spp.) in P. oryzae were exceptionally noncarriers of AVR1-CO39. All Oryza isolates suffered from one of the two types of known rearrangements at the Avr1-CO39 locus (i.e., G type and J type). These types were congruous to the two major lineages of Oryza isolates from Japan determined by MGR586 and MAGGY. These results indicate that AVR1-CO39 was lost during the early stage of evolution of the Oryza-specific subgroup of P. oryzae. Interestingly, its corresponding resistance gene, Pi-CO39(t), is not widely distributed in Oryza spp.
16353977	The purpose of this work was to investigate the effect of different polysulfonate resins and direct compression fillers on physical properties of multiple-unit sustained-release dextromethorphan (DMP) tablets. DMP resinates were formed by a complexation of DMP and strong cation exchange resins, Dowex 50 W and Amberlite IRP69. The tablets consisted of the DMP resinates and direct compression fillers, such as microcrystalline cellulose (MCC), dicalcium phosphate dihydrate (DCP), and spray-dried rice starch (SDRS). Physical properties of tablets, such as hardness, disintegration time, and in vitro release, were investigated. A good performance of the tablets was obtained when MCC or SDRS was used. The use of rod-like and plate-like particles of Amberlite IRP69 caused a statistical decrease in tablet hardness, whereas good tablet hardness was obtained when spherical particle of Dowex 50 W was used. The plastic deformation of the fillers, such as MCC and SDRS, caused a little change in the release of DMP. A higher release rate constant was found in the tablets containing DCP and Dowex 50 W, indicating the fracture of the resinates under compression, which was attributable to the fragmentation of DCP. However, the release of DMP from the tablets using Amberlite IRP69 was not significantly changed because of the higher degree of cross-linking of the resinates, which exhibited more resistance to deformation under compression. In conclusion, the properties of polysulfonate resin, such as particle shape and degree of cross-linking, and the deformation under compaction of fillers affect the physical properties and the drug release of the resinate tablets.
16354755	The abundance of repetitive DNA varies greatly across centromeres within an individual or between different organisms. To shed light on the molecular mechanisms of centromere repeat proliferation, we performed structural analysis of LTR-retrotransposons, mostly centromere retrotransposons of rice (CRRs), and phylogenetic analysis of CentO satellite repeats harbored in the core region of the rice chromosome 4 centromere (CEN4). The data obtained demonstrate that the CRRs in the centromeric region we investigated have been enriched more significantly by recent rounds of segmental duplication than by original integration of active elements, suggesting that segmental duplication is an important process for CRR accumulation in the centromeric region. Our results also indicate that segmental duplication of large arrays of satellite repeats is primarily responsible for the amplification of satellite repeats, contributing to rapid reshuffling of CentO satellites. Intercentromere satellite homogenization was revealed by genome-wide comparison of CentO satellite monomers. However, a 10-bp duplication present in nearly half of the CEN4 monomers was found to be completely absent in rice centromere 8 (CEN8), suggesting that CEN4 and CEN8 may represent two different stages in the evolution of rice centromeres. These observations, obtained from the only complex eukaryotic centromeres to have been completely sequenced thus far, depict the evolutionary dynamics of rice centromeres with respect to the nature, timing, and process of centromeric repeat amplification.
16355794	Based on the 2002 field experimental results in the Wusi Farm of Fengxian County in Shanghai and related studies, and by the methods of ecological economy and environmental economy, this article examined and estimated the nitrogen input and output, and the economic values of nitrogen transformation in rice field ecosystems. The results indicated that the plot without N fertilization showed a deficit of nitrogen budget, while those with urea application showed a surplus. The economic value of the plot without urea amendment was evaluated to be positive, while that of the plots with urea application was calculated to be negative. The negative value of the plots with urea amendment resulted from the nitrogen losses through ammonia volatilization, nitrogen leaching and runoff, which had serious harmful impacts on environment and human society. Therefore, only when some measures were taken to encourage and facilitate farmers to improve the efficiency of urea application and to mitigate the environment problems from N losses in the process of food production, the advantages of nitrogen transformation in rice fields could be promoted, and the sustainability of agriculture would become reality.
16356012	[reaction: see text] The key compound responsible for the aroma of bread, 6-acetyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyridine (1), has been constructed in an efficient three-step procedure from 2-piperidone in an overall yield of 56%. Compound 1 was liberated in the final step under basic conditions. A related synthetic route produced 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2), the principal component of cooked rice, in 10% overall yield.
16356283	Markers with segregation ratio distortion are commonly observed in data sets used for quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping. In this study, a multipoint method of maximum likelihood (ML) was newly developed to estimate the positions and effects of the segregation distortion loci (SDLs) in two F2 populations of rice (Oryza sativa L.), i.e. Taichung65/Bhadua (TB; japonica-indica cross) and CPSLO17/W207-2 (CW; japonica-japonica). Of the four parents, W207-2 and Bhadua were found to be spikelet semi-sterile and stably inherited through selfing, and spikelet fertility segregated in the two populations. Therefore, recombination frequencies were recalculated after mapping the SDLs by using the multipoint method, and the molecular linkage maps of the two F2 populations were constructed to detect QTLs underlying spikelet fertility. As a result, five SDLs in the TB population were mapped on chromosomes 1, 3, 8 and 9, respectively. Two major QTLs underlying spikelet fertility, namely qSS-6a and qSS-8a, were detected on chromosomes 6 and 8, respectively. In the CW population, a total of 12 SDLs were detected on all 12 chromosomes except 1, 5, 7 and 11. Three QTLs underlying spikelet sterility, namely qSS-2, qSS-6b and qSS-8b on chromosomes 2, 6 and 8, were determined on the whole genome scale. Interestingly, both qSS-6a and qSS-6b, detected in the two F2 populations respectively, were located on a similar position as the S5 gene on chromosome 6; while qSS-8a and qSS-8b were also simultaneously detected on similar positions of the short arm of chromosome 8 in the two populations, which should be a new sterility gene showing the same type of zygotic selection.
16357197	The current view of wheat genome composition is that genes are compartmentalized into gene-rich and gene-poor regions. This model can be tested by analyzing randomly selected bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones for gene content, followed by placement of these BACs onto physical and genetic maps. Map localization could be difficult for BACs that consist entirely of repeated elements. We therefore developed a technique where repeat junctions are used to generate unique markers. Four BAC clones from hexaploid wheat variety Chinese Spring were randomly selected and sequenced at 4- to 6-fold redundancy. About 50% of the BAC sequences corresponded to previously identified repeats, mainly LTR-retrotransposons, whereas most of the remaining DNA consisted of sequences with unknown origin or function. The average gene content was <1%, although each BAC contained one or two identified genes. Repeat boundaries were amplified and used to map each clone to a chromosome arm. Extrapolation from wheat-rice comparative knowledge suggests that three of the four BAC clones originate from "gene-rich" regions of the wheat genome. Nevertheless, because these BACs carry only a single gene (two BACs) or two genes (one BAC), the predicted gene density is approximately 1 gene per 75 kb, which is considerably lower than previously estimated gene densities (one gene per 5-20 kb) for gene-rich regions in wheat. This analysis of randomly selected wheat BAC clones suggests that genes are more evenly distributed in wheat than previously believed and substantiates the need for large-scale random BAC sequencing to determine wheat genome organization.
16358284	Cellular images obtained by light microscopy have been analyzed qualitatively, but there is still a lack of quantitative information about the variations in cellular metabolism of selective substances. A new approach using the multispectral imaging microscope (MIM) to observe rice (Oryza sativa L.) pollen grains is reported. A liquid crystal tunable filter device was used for wavelength selection from 400 to 720 nm and a cooled two-dimensional monochrome charge coupled device for image detection. Rice pollen were stained respectively by acetocarmine, Coomassie blue, or iodine potassium-iodine, and then imaged by MIM. The images were processed by the WuDa Image Analysis System 2003 (computer software), and the transmittance spectra for pollen grain images were obtained. The statistical analysis of the transmittance data showed that the macromolecular amount (nucleic acid, protein, starch) of male-sterile line (MSL) pollen grains was less than those of the fertility-maintaining line (FML). For instance there was a significantly lower nucleic acid content in the MSL than in the FML pollen. The results revealed that pollen abortion was directly related to the diminution of intracellular substances for metabolism. Consequently, we have established a quantitative criterion to determine pollen sterility. Comparing the spectra features of the FML with the MSL, we found that certain spectra features can be used to identify various types of abortion pollens and the deficient cytoplasm of male-sterile rice. Our experimental results offer the first quantitative understanding for evaluating cell morphological structure correlated with cellular physiological status.
16358827	A few culture-confirmed cases of S. sonnei have been notified from Korean hospitals. The source of epidemic can't be firmly determined in such cases because of the rarity of this illness in the local communities and the timing of the outbreaks. The objective of this study is to estimate the source of epidemic by investigating the patients' lifestyles. Alibi verification was used to access the presumed source of the epidemic. PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) was used to rapidly detect the genes of Shigella in water specimens. The common lifestyle trait among the Shigella-infected patients was connected with Mt. Martyr in J city, Korea. The first patient's son had gone on a pilgrimage to Mt. Martyr with 41 friends and he had only eaten rice cakes on April 5th; the second patients had visited Mt. Martyr with their mother for a picnic on April 12th; the third patient had visited Mt. Martyr with 22 friends for a pilgrimage and the patient had only drunk holy water on April 13th. Therefore, the holy water of Mt. Martyr was reckoned to be the source of the epidemic. PCR detected the genes of Shigella two days before the S. sonnei was confirmed. The patients' lifestyles for 7 days before the onset of symptoms should be determined in terms of time, place and contacted people to find the source of infection when cases with food poisoning are seen in the hospital setting.
16358980	Food allergy has been demonstrated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of atopic eczema dermatitis syndrome (AEDS), affecting often atopic infants and young children. The most commonly offending foods are cow's milk, hen's egg, wheat and soy; implicating immediate (IgE-mediated) and late-phase (T-cells) immunological reactions in the pathogenesis of skin lesions. The diagnostic work-up of suspected immediate food reactions includes skin prick tests (SPT) and the measurement of food-specific antibodies (sIgE). The methodology of atopy patch test (APT) has been reported as a diagnostic tool with high predictive capacity for late-phase clinical reactions in children with atopic dermatitis. Although APT has been introduced into the diagnostic procedure for food allergy, its diagnostic accuracy remains still controversial; especially in older children. The aim of study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the atopy patch test in the detection of food allergy in correlation with SPT, sIgE and positive oral food challenge to milk, in children suffering from AEDS and to assess the sensitivity and specificity of this method in dependence on the age of investigated children. 34 children (25 boys, 9 girls) aged 5 months-16 years with suspicion of milk-related AEDS were investigated. These patients were subdivided into 2 age groups: group A--20 children (<3 years), group B--14 children (>3 years). The diagnostic procedures as skin-prick tests and atopy patch test were performed. The specific IgE to cow's milk allergens were also measured. The open and blind diagnostic oral food challenge were performed to verify the results of tests. Sensitivity, specificity, positive (PPV) and negative (NPV) predictive value of APT were calculated in both age groups. A positive challenge response to milk was found in 65.0% of investigated children in group A and in 35.7% in group B. No statistical differences in the prevalence of immediate (p<0.1905) and delayed-type (p<0.409) reactions has been found between age groups. Positive APT to milk were noticed in 55.0% of patients in group A and in 35.7% of children from group B, that has been in correlation with positive delayed-type reactions in oral food challenge in 72.7% and 80.0% in corresponding age groups. Polysensitization to other food allergens confirmed by SPT and/or sIgE was detected in 35.0% of patients younger than 3 years of age and in 50.0% of older children. The prevalence of positive APT to other foods (soy, rice, maize, cereals) was significantly higher (p<0.0073) in the polysensitized children from group A. Sensitivity of SPT/sIgE in children with immediate-type reactions to milk was 100%, specificity 94%. Sensitivity of APT to cow's milk in children with late-phase reactions was 80% in both age groups; specificity 70%/89% with comparable PPV in both groups (73%/80%). Parallel skin testing with combined patch test and evaluation of sIgE enhanced the value of sensitivity to 92% in the group A and specificity to 89% in the group B. For PPV corresponding figures were 85%/80%. APT was found to be more sensitive and specific method than SPT/sIgE in diagnosing delayed food allergy in children with AEDS. No age correlation between positive results of APT and oral food challenge and higher specificity of APT in older children confirm its accuracy in diagnosing delayed cow's milk allergy in all age groups of children. Combined skin prick and patch testing significantly enhances identification of food allergy in children with AEDS. The outcome of the APT with food does not seem to be influenced by age of children, but because of its variability of sensitivity and specificity, a diagnosis of food allergy should be confirmed by oral food challenge.
16359387	The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) induces gene expression via the ABA-response element (ABRE) present in the promoters of ABA-regulated genes. A group of bZIP proteins have been identified as ABRE-binding factors (ABFs) that activate transcription through this cis element. A rice ABF, TRAB1, has been shown to be activated via ABA-dependent phosphorylation. While a large number of signalling factors have been identified that are involved in stomatal regulation by ABA, relatively less is known about the ABA-signalling pathway that leads to gene expression. We have shown recently that three members of the rice SnRK2 protein kinase family, SAPK8, SAPK9 and SAPK10, are activated by ABA signal as well as by hyperosmotic stress. Here we show that transient overexpression in cultured cell protoplasts of these ABA-activated SnRK2 protein kinases leads to the activation of an ABRE-regulated promoter, suggesting that these kinases are involved in the gene-regulation pathway of ABA signalling. We further show several lines of evidence that these ABA-activated SnRK2 protein kinases directly phosphorylate TRAB1 in response to ABA. Kinetic analysis of SAPK10 activation and TRAB1 phosphorylation indicated that the latter immediately followed the former. TRAB1 was found to be phosphorylated not only in response to ABA, but also in response to hyperosmotic stress, which was interpreted as the consequence of phosphorylation of TRAB1 by hyperosmotically activated SAPKs. Physical interaction between TRAB1 and SAPK10 in vivo was demonstrated by a co-immunoprecipitation experiment. Finally, TRAB1 was phosphorylated in vitro by the ABA-activated SnRK2 protein kinases at Ser102, which is phosphorylated in vivo in response to ABA and is critical for the activation function.
16359699	Overwintering larvae of the rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis accumulate glycerol and are freezing tolerant to about -25 degrees C. However, non-diapausing larvae cannot accumulate glycerol and are killed by freezing. We compared the extent of tissue damage, the effects of glycerol concentration, and the transport of glycerol and water in fat body tissues from these larvae at selected freezing temperatures. Tissues from overwintering larvae, but not non-diapausing larvae, survive when frozen at -20 degrees C with 0.25 M glycerol, but the protection afforded by glycerol is offset by the water-channel inhibitor mercuric chloride. Glycerol in higher concentration (0.75 M) affords some protection even to the fat body of non-diapausing larvae. Radiotracer assays of overwintering larvae show that water leaves the tissues during freezing while glycerol enters, and that mercuric chloride disrupts this process. Transport is also disrupted after lethal freezing at -35 degrees C. Therefore, membrane transport of water and glycerol is involved in the avoidance of freezing injury to fat body cells of the rice stem borer, apparently by mediating the replacement of water with glycerol in freezing-tolerant tissues.
16359716	Lectin plays an important role in defense signaling in plants. A few genes of this family have been cloned. Here we report on a mannose-specific jacalin-related lectin in rice. Using sequence information of wheat gene VER2, which we had previously cloned, we were able to amplify a cDNA of OsJAC1 from Oryza sativa by RT-PCR. The cDNA of OsJAC1 was 1172 bp and contained a 921-bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding dirigent (amino acids 26-139) and jacalin (amino acids 175-305) domains of 306 amino acids. Comparison of the OsJAC1 sequence with those of other lectins (jacalin) from rice, wheat and other species revealed that OsJAC1 had the 12 amino acid positions conserved in all mannose-binding lectins. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR revealed that OsJAC1 expression was present in stems, leaves and young spikes but not young roots; the expression was high in leaves and low in stems and spikes. And methyl jasmonate could induce the expression of OsJAC1. To test the activity of OsJAC1, the jacalin domain at the C-terminal was expressed in E. coli. BL21 (DE3). The purified recombinant protein could agglutinate red blood cells of rabbit, and the agglutination activity was strongly inhibited by mannose compared with other carbohydrates. These results indicate that lectin with dirigent and jacalin domains exists in rice as well as wheat. This is the first report of cDNA cloning of mannose-binding jacalin-related lectin with a dirigent domain in N-terminal region from O. sativa.
16360805	Actin-depolymerizing factors (ADF) is one of the small actin-binding proteins that regulate actin dynamics in cells. Analysis of the complete rice and Arabidopsis protein sequences revealed 12 ADF proteins, respectively. A further study on the similarities and differences between ADF throughout rice and Arabidopsis genome was carried out at the level of genomic organization and protein structure. The strict conservation of essential structural features suggested that the mode of action and physiological function of these proteins, as well as the expression pattern of their coding genes, might be very similar. The ADF proteins were divided into four groups based on the phylogenetic relationships of the amino acid sequences, and was comparable with previous studies.
16361516	Ran is an evolutionarily conserved eukaryotic GTPase. We previously identified a cDNA of TaRAN1, a novel Ran GTPase homologous gene in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and demonstrated that TaRAN1 is associated with regulation of genome integrity and cell division in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) systems. However, much less is known about the function of RAN in plant development. To analyze the possible biological roles of Ran GTPase, we overexpressed TaRAN1 in transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa). TaRAN1 overexpression increased the proportion of cells in the G2 phase of the cell cycle, which resulted in an elevated mitotic index and prolonged life cycle. Furthermore, it led to increased primordial tissue, reduced number of lateral roots, and stimulated hypersensitivity to exogenous auxin. The results suggest that Ran protein was involved in the regulation of mitotic progress, either in the shoot apical meristem or the root meristem zone in plants, where auxin signaling is involved. This article determines the function of RAN in plant development mediated by the cell cycle and its novel role in meristem initiation mediated by auxin signaling.
16361526	5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) is a key enzyme in the shikimate pathway and is targeted by the wide-spectrum herbicide glyphosate. Here, we describe the use of a selection system based on directed evolution to select glyphosate-resistant mutants of EPSPS. Using this system, the rice (Oryza sativa) EPSPS gene, mutagenized by Error-Prone polymerase chain reaction, was introduced into an EPSPS-deficient Escherichia coli strain, AB2829, and transformants were selected on minimal medium by functional complementation. Three mutants with high glyphosate resistance were identified in three independent glyphosate selection experiments. Each mutant contained a C(317)-->T transition within the EPSPS coding sequence, causing a change of proline-106 to leucine (P106L) in the protein sequence. Glyphosate resistance assays indicated a 3-fold increase in glyphosate resistance of E. coli expressing the P106L mutant. Affinity of the P106L mutant for glyphosate and phosphoenolpyruvate was decreased about 70-fold and 4.6-fold, respectively, compared to wild-type EPSPS. Analysis based on a kinetic model demonstrates that the P106L mutant has a high glyphosate resistance while retaining relatively high catalytic efficiency at low phosphoenolpyruvate concentrations. A mathematical model derived from the Michaelis-Menten equation was used to characterize the effect of expression level and selection conditions on kinetic (Ki and Km) variation of the mutants. This prediction suggests that the expression level is an important aspect of the selection system. Furthermore, glyphosate resistance of the P106L mutant was confirmed in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), demonstrating the potential for using the P106L mutant in transgenic crops.
16361783	The coding region of Bar gene, the left border of Ds element, the coding region of GUS gene, the transposase of Ac element, the right border of Ds element and the promoter of Ubi gene were inserted into the T-DNA region of vector pCAMBIA1300 in turn to construct plasmid p13B. The orientations of the ubiquitons' promoter, Ac transposase and Bar are identical but opposite to that of the GUS gene (Fig.1). The plasmid p13B was then introduced into the calli of Oryza sativa subsp. japonica cv. Zhonghua 11 by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transforming to trap genes in rice. Eighteen independent transgenic lines were obtained and propagated. T(2) generations of 18 independent transgenic lines were screening by herbicide (Basta) (Fig.2) and the herbicide-resistant plants obtained were analyzed by PCR (Fig.3). Ds element transposed in an inheritable manner was found in 37 plants, in which 5 plants showed GUS activity (Fig.4).
16361786	Oslh (lh=leafy hull), in the japonica cultivar 9522 background, a mutant of Oryza sativa L. spp. japonica cv. 9522 identified from an M(2) population, was mutagenized by irradiation with (60)Co gamma-ray. The Oslh mutant plants flowered about 15 days later than the wild-type plants (Fig.1e). The paleas, lemmas and lodicules of the flowers of Oslh mutant were transformed into leaf-like structures (Fig.1b, d). Genetic analysis of the F(2) progeny from a cross between the Oslh mutant and wild-type japonica cv. 9522 revealed that the Oslh mutant arouse from a single recessive nuclear gene mutation of the cv. 9522. To map the Oslh locus, an F(2) population generated by crossing between Oslh (japonica) mutant and Guangluai4 (indica) was analyzed. The Oslh locus was mapped to the long arm of rice chromosome 3, between a SSR marker RM5475 and an InDel marker GY305, 2.9 and 1.5 cM away from these two markers respectively (Fig.4). These results are useful for further cloning and functional analysis of the OsLH gene.
16361788	The rice Rim2/Hipa is a unique stress-induced transposon superfamily recently identified in Oryza genomes. In the present study, we conducted genome-wide screening of full-length Rim2 cDNA from the pathogen-induced cDNA libraries and mining of cDNA databases. Four indica and two japonica types of transcripts were identified, which were transcribed from the same Rim2 pseudogene Rim2-42 that contains premature stop codons in the TNP2-TPase coding region. These data demonstrated that the processing of the Rim2 transcripts exhibited variations within and between the two subspecies. These transcripts were found to be produced by alternative transcription (tailing) or splicing from Rim2-42 under stress conditions. An additional Rim2-like transcript (Rim2-XET), a chimera of Rim2 and XET genes, were also found to be derived from read-through. These results show that the Rim2 transposon probably loses its transposition capacity during evolution, and that Rim2-42 inserts downstream of the stress-inducible XET promoter, resulting in Rim2 transcript accumulation upon pathogen attack.
16361791	To make an genetic analysis of starch branching enzyme (Q enzyme) inheritance, which is important in catalyzing the formation of amylopectin and thereby raising the amylopectin/amylose ratio of starch in rice grains, a linkage map of 207 DNA markers were constructed by using 247 recombinant inbred lines derived from an indica-indica rice cross Zhenshan 97B/Milyang46. In 2002 and 2003, the activities of starch branching enzyme of the parents and 247 RILs were measured 10 d and 20 d respectively after flowering (Table 1). A total of 3 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were detected to have significant additive effects on Q enzyme activities 10 d after flowering with 10% phenotypic variations explained for the three QTLs (Table 2, Fig.1). Meanwhile, qQ10-6 with significant QTL x environment interaction was detected. Epistasis analysis detected 5 and 2 significant additive-by-additive interactions for Q enzyme 10 d and 20 d respectively after flowering (Table 3), and three pairs of QTLs 10 d after flowering with significant epistasis x environment interactions were detected, explaining 3% to 12% of the phenotypic variation. The results showed that the environmental factors had obvious effect on the gene expression of Q enzyme activity in rice grain. Meanwhile, the location of qQ10-6 in relation to that of QTLs for gelatinization temperature, gene loci involved in ADPG pyrophosphorylase and soluble starch synthase were discussed with the help of a genetic map.
16361793	The effects of brown planthopper on the activities of some key enzymes involved in defense response and the H(2)O(2) content were investigated in rice. From the fact that after piercing-sucking of brown planthopper, malondialdehyde (MDA) content of rice plant was increased rapidly (Fig.3), one can conclude that it induced lipid peroxidation; lipoxygenase (LOX), hydroperoxide lyase (HPL) and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) activities were increased significantly in plants of resistant and susceptible varieties by piercing-sucking of brown planthopper (Figs.1,2,4); whereas the catalase activity and the H(2)O(2) content were significantly different between resistant and susceptible plants by piercing-sucking of brown planthopper, the former being decreased and the latter increased in resistance plants of variety RH (Oryza sativa L. cv. Rathu Heenati), while the reverse was true in the susceptible plants of variety TN1 (Oryza sotiva L. cv. Taichung Native 1) (Figs.5,6). The effect of brown planthopper on the PAL activity and the H(2)O(2) content were systemic (Figs.4,6), but the effect on the LOX activity occurred only in stem, the organ which brown planthopper sucking (Fig.1).
16361795	The effects of high temperature on grain filling rate and some physiological indexes in flag leaves in hybrid rice Teyou 559 were studied. The results showed that chlorophyll content and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in flag leaves were lower significantly by high temperature stress (Figs.2A and 3A). The electrolyte leakage and malondialdehyde (MDA) content were higher significantly under high temperature stress (Figs.2B and 3B). The proline (Pro), ascorbic acid (AsA), glutathione (GSH), soluble protein and soluble sugar contents were lower significantly by high temperature stress than those of the control (Figs.4,5 and 6). Both the rate of grain filling and grain dry matter accumulation become lower significantly under high temperature stress (Figs.7 and 8). Therefore, it was suggested that high temperature accelerated the senescence of rice leaf and decreased the photosynthesis rate during grain filling period, and then which was the main reason in physiology which resulted the decrease of grain filling rate, seed setting rate, grain weight and yield.
16362900
16364243	Intrinsic DNA methylation pattern is an integral component of the epigenetic network in many eukaryotes. Exploring the extent to which DNA methylation patterns can be altered under a specific condition is important for elucidating the biological functions of this epigenetic modification. This is of added significance in plants wherein the newly acquired methylation patterns can be inherited through organismal generations. We report here that DNA methylation patterns of mobile elements but not of cellular genes were specifically altered in rice plants following hydrostatic pressurization. This was evidenced by methylation-sensitive gel-blot analysis, which showed that 10 out of 10 studied low-copy transposons and retrotransposons manifested methylation alteration in at least one of the 8 randomly chosen pressure-treated plants, whereas none of the 16 studied low-copy cellular genes showed any change. Both gel-blotting and genome-wide fingerprinting indicated that the methylation alteration in mobile elements was not accompanied by a general genetic instability. Progeny analysis indicated retention of the altered methylation patterns in most progeny plants, underscoring early occurrence of the alterations, and their faithful epigenetic inheritance.
16365756	The developments of molecular marker-based genetic linkage maps are now routine. Physical maps based on contigs of large insert genomic clones have been established in several plant species. However, integration of genetic, physical, and cytological maps is still a challenge for most plant species. Here we present an integrated map of rice (Oryza sativa L.) chromosome 5, developed by fluorescence in situ hybridization mapping of 18 bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones or PI-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) clones on meiotic pachytene chromosomes. Each BAC/PAC clone was anchored by a restriction fragment length polymorphism marker mapped to the rice genetic linkage map. This molecular cytogenetic map shows the genetic recombination and sequence information of a physical map, correlated to the cytological features of rice chromosome 5. Detailed comparisons of the distances between markers on genetic, cytological, and physical maps, revealed the distributions of recombination events and molecular organization of the chromosomal features of rice chromosome 5 at the pachytene stage. Discordance of distances between the markers was found among the different maps. Our results revealed that neither the recombination events nor the degree of chromatin condensation were evenly distributed along the entire length of chromosome 5. Detailed comparisons of the correlative positions of markers on the genetic, cytological, and physical maps of rice chromosome 5 provide insight into the molecular architecture of rice chromosome 5, in relation to its cytological features and recombination events on the genetic map. The prospective applications of such an integrated cytogenetic map are discussed.
16366490	The capability of degrading rice straw of lignocellulolytic composite microbial system MC1 was investigated under different methods of preservation and temperatures treatments of 80 degrees C to 95 degrees C, and stability of composite microbial system MC1 was studied through the method of Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE). The results indicate that the rice straw of 2% dry weight of medium can be degraded completely at 50 degrees C within 10 days under static culture. After 9 days inoculating MC1, the dry weight of rice straw, cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin content was degraded by 81% , 99%, 74% and 51%, respectively. Capability of cellulose degrading and stability of composite microbial system MC1 is sustained under 4 years of continuing subculture, 4 years of dry preservation at room temperature, 4 years of preservation at - 20 degrees C, 1 year of liquid preservation at room temperature and at 4 degrees C, and treatment of 90 degrees C for 30 min, respectively. Plate culture results show that composite microbial system MC1 are consisted of bacteria. The main DNA bands are not changed by the method of 16S rDNA PCR-DGGE after culture of six months so that microbial composition of MC1 is very stable.
16366491	An ultrafiltration membrane bioreactor consisted of 1 - 6 enzymatic vessel was used to increase the reducing sugar concentration. The effects of enzyme loading, the number of enzymatic vessel and the dilution rate on enzymatic hydrolysis of steam-exploded rice straw were studied. The results show that the best condition is: 20FPU/g, four enzymatic vessels and 0.075/h (D). Compared with traditional batch reaction, the conversion of substrate increased significantly from 18% - 21% to 39.5%. Compared with the ultrafiltration membrane bioreactor consisted of one enzymatic vessel, the production of reducing sugar increased from 0.25 g/ g to 0.4g/g, and the final reducing sugar concentration in the product stream increased from 4.56g/L to 27.23g/L.
16366703	The potential for reductive dechlorination of the herbicide thiobencarb (TB) by microbes and its prevention in saturated anaerobic rice field soils was examined in laboratory microcosms. TB is effective in controlling both annual grasses and broadleaf weeds. In anoxic microcosms, TB was effectively degraded within 30 days to its dechlorinated product, deschlorothiobencarb (DTB), in two Sacramento Valley rice field soils. TB dechlorination, and subsequent degradation, followed pseudo-zero- (lag phase) and first-order (degradation phase) kinetics. Logistic regression analysis (r2 > 0.841) produced a half-life (t(1/2)) in nonsterile soils ranging from 10 to 15 days, which was also observed when microcosms were amended with low concentrations (<3 mg L(-1)) of copper (Cu2+; as the fungicides Cu(OH)2 and CuSO4.5H2O). High Cu2+ concentrations (>40 mg L(-1)) were added to the microcosms to determine if copper toxicity to dechlorinating microbes is concentration dependent within the range used. After 30 days, the low-copper-amended soils closely resembled the nonsterile experiments to which no Cu2+ was added while the high-copper-amended microcosms were similar to the sterile experiment. Microcosms were also separately amended with 5.7 g L(-1) phosphate (PO4(2-); as KH2PO4), a nutrient regularly applied to rice fields. Phosphate-amended experiments also showed TB degradation, but no DTB formation, indicating the phosphate played a role, possibly as a microbial inhibitor or an alternative electron acceptor, in limiting the dechlorination of TB. In summary, TB dechlorination was inhibited at high Cu(OH)2, CuSO4.5H2O, and KH2PO4 concentrations.
16366728	A total of 60 food samples commonly consumed in China were analyzed for phytate using the anion-exchange method and for calcium, iron, and zinc using atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The foods analyzed included those based on cereal grains and soybean. Phytate contents expressed on a wet weight basis ranged from 0 for foods made from starches to 1878 mg/100 g for dried stick-shaped soybean milk film. The calcium contents were between 2.08 mg/100 g for ground corn and 760.67 mg/100 g for diced fried soybean curd. The lowest values of iron and zinc were 0.04 mg/100 g for Panjin pearl rice cooked with discarding extra water and 0.08 mg/100 g for potato and bean starches, while the highest values of iron and zinc were observed in dried stick-shaped soybean milk film. Although many foods were relatively rich in calcium, zinc, and iron, many also contained a higher level of phytate. Of the 60 food samples, 34 foods had a phytate/calcium molar ratio >0.24, 53 foods had a phytate/iron molar ratio >1, 31 foods had a phytate/zinc molar ratio >15, and only 7 foods had a phytate x calcium/zinc >200. Phytate in foods impair the bioavailability of calcium, iron, and zinc, which to some extent depends upon food processing and cooking methods.
16367274	Two aspects of a previous article by Rice, Greenfield, Alexander, and Sternbach (1976)--their errors with regard to a previous article by Thorpe and Swartz, and their statement regarding sex differences on Holtzman Inkblot Technique variables--are described and discussed.
16367907	Sphingolipids display a wide spectrum of biological activities, including cell growth, differentiation and apoptosis. However, precise mechanisms by which these compounds exert anticancer or cancer-preventive effects are not known. In the present study, we evaluated the preventive efficacy of enriched dietary monoglucosylceramide 1-O-beta-glucosyl-N-2'-hydroxyarachidoyl-4,8-sphingadienine (G(1)CM) on 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH)-induced aberrant crypt foci (ACF) and beta-catenin-accumulated crypt (BCAC) formation in F344 rats during initiation stage. We also examined whether G(1)CM affects cell proliferation and apoptosis in these lesions. Pure G(1)CM was isolated from rice bran. Forty-two rats were divided randomly into five experimental groups. Rats in groups 1-3 were given subcutaneous injections of DMH (40 mg/kg body weight) once a week for 2 weeks. One week before the first injection of DMH, rats in groups 2 and 3 were fed a diet containing 200 and 1,000 p.p.m. G(1)CM, respectively, for 5 weeks. Rats in group 4 were fed a diet containing 1,000 p.p.m. G(1)CM. Rats in group 5 were given the basal diet alone and served as untreated controls. The experiment was terminated 5 weeks after the start. Dietary G(1)CM at both doses (groups 2 and 3) significantly inhibited the induction of ACF and BCAC (P<0.001) when compared to group 1 treated with DMH alone. In groups 2 and 3, the proliferating cell nuclear antigen labeling indices of epithelial cells in ACF and BCAC were also lower than in group 1 (P<0.0001 for ACF, P<0.05 for BCAC). These results, that dietary G(1)CM has possible chemopreventive effects in the present short-term colon carcinogenesis bioassays, suggest that longer exposure may cause suppression of tumor development.
16367953	While characterized mutable alleles caused by DNA transposons have been abundant in maize since the discovery of Dissociation conferring variegation by Barbara McClintock, only a few mutable alleles have been described in rice even though the rice genome contains various transposons. Here, we show that a spontaneous mutable virescent allele, pyl-v, is caused by the disruption of the nuclear-coded essential chloroplast protease gene, OsClpP5, due to insertion of a 607-bp non-autonomous DNA transposon, non-autonomous DNA-based active rice transposon one (nDart1), belonging to the hAT superfamily. The transposition of nDart1 can be induced by crossing with a line containing an autonomous element, aDart, and stabilized by segregating out of aDart. We also identified a novel mutable dwarf allele thl-m caused by an insertion of nDart1. The japonica cultivar Nipponbare carries no aDart, although it contains epigenetically silenced Dart element(s), which can be activated by 5-azacytidine. Nipponbare bears four subgroups of about 3.6-kb Dart-like sequences, three of which contain potential transposase genes, and around 3.6-kb elements without an apparent transposase gene, as well as three subgroups of about 0.6-kb nDart1-related elements that are all internal deletions of the Dart-like sequences. Both nDart1 and 3.6-kb Dart-like elements were also present in indica varieties 93-11 and Kasalath. nDart1 appears to be the most active mutagen among nDart1-related elements contributing to generating natural variations. A candidate for an autonomous element, aDart, and a possible application of nDart1 for transposon tagging are discussed.
16368012	Calcium signaling plays a prominent role in plants for coordinating a wide range of developmental processes and responses to environmental cues. Stimulus-specific generation of intracellular calcium transients, decoding of calcium signatures, and transformation of the signal into cellular responses are integral modules of the transduction process. Several hundred proteins with functions in calcium signaling circuits have been identified, and the number of downstream targets of calcium sensors is expected to increase. We previously identified a novel, calmodulin-binding nuclear protein, IQD1, which stimulates glucosinolate accumulation and plant defense in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we present a comparative genome-wide analysis of a new class of putative calmodulin target proteins in Arabidopsis and rice. We identified and analyzed 33 and 29 IQD1-like genes in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, respectively. The encoded IQD proteins contain a plant-specific domain of 67 conserved amino acid residues, referred to as the IQ67 domain, which is characterized by a unique and repetitive arrangement of three different calmodulin recruitment motifs, known as the IQ, 1-5-10, and 1-8-14 motifs. We demonstrated calmodulin binding for IQD20, the smallest IQD protein in Arabidopsis, which consists of a C-terminal IQ67 domain and a short N-terminal extension. A striking feature of IQD proteins is the high isoelectric point (approximately 10.3) and frequency of serine residues (approximately 11%). We compared the Arabidopsis and rice IQD gene families in terms of gene structure, chromosome location, predicted protein properties and motifs, phylogenetic relationships, and evolutionary history. The existence of an IQD-like gene in bryophytes suggests that IQD proteins are an ancient family of calmodulin-binding proteins and arose during the early evolution of land plants. Comparative phylogenetic analyses indicate that the major IQD gene lineages originated before the monocot-eudicot divergence. The extant IQD loci in Arabidopsis primarily resulted from segmental duplication and reflect preferential retention of paralogous genes, which is characteristic for proteins with regulatory functions. Interaction of IQD1 and IQD20 with calmodulin and the presence of predicted calmodulin binding sites in all IQD family members suggest that IQD proteins are a new class of calmodulin targets. The basic isoelectric point of IQD proteins and their frequently predicted nuclear localization suggest that IQD proteins link calcium signaling pathways to the regulation of gene expression. Our comparative genomics analysis of IQD genes and encoded proteins in two model plant species provides the first step towards the functional dissection of this emerging family of putative calmodulin targets.
16368778	Mitochondrial ribosomes contain bacterial-type proteins reflecting their endosymbiotic heritage, and a subset of these genes is retained within the mitochondrion in land plants. Variation in gene location is observed, however, because migration to the nucleus is still an ongoing evolutionary process in plants. To gain insights into adaptation events related to successful gene transfer, we have compiled data for bacterial-origin mitochondrial-type ribosomal protein genes from the completely sequenced Arabidopsis and rice genomes. Approximately 75% of such nuclear-located genes encode amino-terminal extensions relative to their Escherichia coli counterparts, and of that set, only about 30% have introns at (or near) the junction in support of an exon shuffling-type recruitment of upstream expression/targeting signals. We find that genes that were transferred to the nucleus early in eukaryotic evolution have, on average, about twofold higher density of introns within the core ribosomal protein sequences than do those that moved to the nucleus more recently. About 20% of such introns are at positions identical to those in human orthologs, consistent with their ancestral presence. Plant mitochondrial-type ribosomal protein genes have dispersed chromosomal locations in the nucleus, and about 20% of them are present in multiple unlinked copies. This study provides new insights into the evolutionary history of endosymbiotic bacterial-type genes that have been transferred from the mitochondrion to the nucleus.
16369532	Sequencing and computational annotation revealed several features, including high gene numbers, unusual composition of the predicted genes and a large number of genes lacking homology to known genes, that distinguish the rice (Oryza sativa) genome from that of other fully sequenced model species. We report here a full-genome transcription analysis of the indica rice subspecies using high-density oligonucleotide tiling microarrays. Our results provided expression data support for the existence of 35,970 (81.9%) annotated gene models and identified 5,464 unique transcribed intergenic regions that share similar compositional properties with the annotated exons and have significant homology to other plant proteins. Elucidating and mapping of all transcribed regions revealed an association between global transcription and cytological chromosome features, and an overall similarity of transcriptional activity between duplicated segments of the genome. Collectively, our results provide the first whole-genome transcription map useful for further understanding the rice genome.
16369540	New cultivars with very erect leaves, which increase light capture for photosynthesis and nitrogen storage for grain filling, may have increased grain yields. Here we show that the erect leaf phenotype of a rice brassinosteroid-deficient mutant, osdwarf4-1, is associated with enhanced grain yields under conditions of dense planting, even without extra fertilizer. Molecular and biochemical studies reveal that two different cytochrome P450s, CYP90B2/OsDWARF4 and CYP724B1/D11, function redundantly in C-22 hydroxylation, the rate-limiting step of brassinosteroid biosynthesis. Therefore, despite the central role of brassinosteroids in plant growth and development, mutation of OsDWARF4 alone causes only limited defects in brassinosteroid biosynthesis and plant morphology. These results suggest that regulated genetic modulation of brassinosteroid biosynthesis can improve crops without the negative environmental effects of fertilizers.
16370315	To produce the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against hygromycin B phosphotransferase (HPT) and to develop immunoassay based on mAbs for biosafety assessment of HPT in genetically modified rice (GM rice). BALB/c mice were immunized with purified recombinant 6His. HPT protein, and the conventional hybridoma technology was used to generate the monoclonal hybridoma cells. ELISA and Western blot were used to analyze the specificity of mAbs recognizing HPT and the cross reaction with other proteins. A double-Ab sandwich ELISA method was established to detect HPT expression level in the sck gene-modified rice plants. Four hybridomas, named F1, D4-2, D4-4, and D4-5, producing the mAbs against HPT were successfully obtained with the titer of ascetic mAbs ranging from 1x10(-4) to 1x10(-5). Identification of subclass showed that all the produced mAbs belonged to IgG1. Western blot showed specific binding reaction between the mAbs to the HPT proteins expressed in the GM rice. A double sandwich ELISA coated with anti-HPT polyclonal antibody was established with mAbs as sandwich antibody, which showed a sensitivity of 30ng/mL and did not crossreact with other proteins. The expression level of HPT in the leaves of sck-transformed lines was detected (80-150ng/mL). But HPT protein in the grain and seed of GM rice could not be detected using this ELISA assay. Anti-HPT mAbs prepared herein have a high specificity and can be used for rapid assay of HPT antigen. The expression level of HPT in the GM rice grain and seed is lower than our ELISA detection limit.
16371241	RecQ helicases are conserved throughout all kingdoms of life regarding their overall structure and function. They are 3'-5' DNA helicases resolving different recombinogenic DNA structures. The RecQ helicases are key factors in a number of DNA repair and recombination pathways involved in the maintenance of genome integrity. In eukaryotes the number of RecQ genes and the structure of RecQ proteins vary strongly between organisms. Therefore, they have been named RecQ-like genes. Knockouts of several RecQ-like genes cause severe diseases in animals or harmful cellular phenotypes in yeast. Until now the largest number of RecQ-like genes per organism has been found in plants. Arabidopsis and rice possess seven different RecQ-like genes each. In the almost completely sequenced genome of the moss Physcomitrella patens at least five RecQ-like genes are present. One of the major present and future research aims is to define putative plant-specific functions and to assign their roles in DNA repair and recombination pathways in relation to RecQ genes from other eukaryotes. Regarding their intron positions, the structures of six RecQ-like genes of dicots and monocots are virtually identical indicating a conservation over a time scale of 150 million years. In contrast to other eukaryotes one gene (RecQsim) exists exclusively in plants. It possesses an interrupted helicase domain but nevertheless seems to have maintained the RecQ function. Owing to a recent gene duplication besides the AtRecQl4A gene an additional RecQ-like gene (AtRecQl4B) exists in the Brassicaceae only. Genetic studies indicate that a AtRecQl4A knockout results in sensitivity to mutagens as well as an hyper-recombination phenotype. Since AtRecQl4B was still present, both genes must have non-redundant roles. Analysis of plant RecQ-like genes will not only increase the knowledge on DNA repair and recombination, but also on the evolution and radiation of protein families.
16372189	The Tsn1 gene in wheat confers sensitivity to a proteinaceous host-selective toxin (Ptr ToxA) produced by the tan spot fungus (Pyrenophora tritici-repentis) and lies within a gene-rich region of chromosome 5B. To use the rice genome sequence information for the map-based cloning of Tsn1, colinearity between the wheat genomic region containing Tsn1 and the rice genome was determined at the macro- and microlevels. Macrocolinearity was determined by testing 28 expressed sequence markers (ESMs) spanning a 25.5-cM segment and encompassing Tsn1 for similarity to rice sequences. Twelve ESMs had no similarity to rice sequences, and 16 had similarity to sequences on seven different rice chromosomes. Segments of colinearity with rice chromosomes 3 and 9 were identified, but frequent rearrangements and disruptions occurred. Microcolinearity was determined by testing the sequences of 26 putative genes identified from BAC contigs of 205 and 548 kb in length and flanking Tsn1 for similarity to rice genomic sequences. Fourteen of the predicted genes detected orthologous sequences on six different rice chromosomes, whereas the remaining 12 had no similarity with rice sequences. Four genes were colinear on rice chromosome 9, but multiple disruptions, rearrangements, and duplications were observed in wheat relative to rice. The data reported provide a detailed analysis of a region of wheat chromosome 5B that is highly rearranged relative to rice.
16372650	A newly created and approved clinical faculty track was without a well-defined path to promotion. The authors describe how the school of nursing clinical track faculty integrated the 4-part model of scholarship defined by Boyer and Rice into the traditional promotion triad of research, teaching, and service. The authors' challenge was defining promotion guidelines to achieve respect, reward, and promotion.
16373130
16373687	A retrospective cohort study on ECC and associated factors was conducted among mothers with 25- to 30-month-old infants in a community where prolonged breastfeeding was common practice. All infants who consumed sugary supplementary food or rice that was pre-chewed by the mother, or who fell asleep with the breast nipple in their mouths, had ECC. Infants without those habits, and who were breastfed up to 12 months, had no ECC. Breastfeeding during the day beyond the age of 12 months was not associated with ECC, but infants who were breastfed at night > 2 times had an OR for ECC of 35 (CI 6-186), and those who were exposed to > 15 min per nocturnal feeding had an OR for ECC of 100 (CI 10-995). The present study indicates that, in this population, besides the consumption of sugars and pre-chewed rice, nocturnal breastfeeding after the age of 12 months poses a risk of developing ECC.
16373993	This study evaluated the dose-response effects of alpha-cyclodextrin, a cyclic oligosaccharide, on the glycaemic and insulinaemic responses to the consumption of a standard carbohydrate meal. In a double-blind, randomised, cross-over design, 10 healthy subjects consumed boiled white rice containing 50 g of digestible carbohydrate to which 0 (control), 2, 5 or 10 g of alpha-cyclodextrin was added. Plasma glucose and insulin concentrations were determined prior to and for 2 h after consumption of each meal. The area under the plasma glucose curve was negatively related to the dose of alpha-cyclodextrin (r(2)=0.97, p=0.02), with the areas being significantly reduced at the 5- and 10-gram doses compared with the control (p<0.05). alpha-Cyclodextrin did not affect the area under the plasma insulin curve (p=0.39). Higher doses of alpha-cyclodextrin resulted in greater satiety, but were associated with reduced palatability and an increased incidence of minor gastrointestinal complaints (stomach ache, nausea, bloating). alpha-Cyclodextrin reduces the glycaemic response to a standard carbohydrate meal in a dose-dependent manner and may be useful as an ingredient for reducing the glycaemic impact of such foods.
16374594	The gene Lr46 has provided slow-rusting resistance to leaf rust caused by Puccinia triticina in wheat (Triticum aestivum), which has remained durable for almost 30 years. Using linked markers and wheat deletion stocks, we located Lr46 in the deletion bin 1BL (0.84-0.89) comprising 5% of the 1BL arm. The distal part of chromosome 1BL of wheat is syntenic to chromosome 5L of rice. Wheat expressed sequence tags (ESTs) mapping in the terminal 15% of chromosome 1BL with significant homology to sequences from the terminal region of chromosome 5L of rice were chosen for sequence-tagged site (STS) primer design and were mapped physically and genetically. In addition, sequences from two rice bacterial artificial chromosome clones covering the targeted syntenic region were used to identify additional linked wheat ESTs. Fourteen new markers potentially linked to Lr46 were developed; eight were mapped in a segregating population. Markers flanking (2.2 cM proximal and 2.2 cM distal) and cosegregating with Lr46 were identified. The physical location of Lr46 was narrowed to a submicroscopic region between the breakpoints of deletion lines 1BL-13 [fraction length (FL)=0.89-1] and 1BL-10 (FL=0.89-3). We are now developing a high-resolution mapping population for the positional cloning of Lr46.
16376634	To assess the prevalence of breastfeeding and formula feeding, the age of introduction to specific foods, and the types of foods and beverages consumed by Hispanic infants and toddlers compared with similarly aged non-Hispanic infants and toddlers living in the United States. Descriptive and comparative analysis of dietary recall data and responses to specific interview questions, which were collected in the 2002 Feeding Infants and Toddlers Study. Breastfeeding status, timing of introduction of complementary foods, percentage consuming foods from specific food groups, and the most frequently consumed fruits and vegetables by Hispanic and non-Hispanic children by age group (4-5 months, 6-11 months, 12-24 months). A national random sample of 371 Hispanic and 2,637 non-Hispanic infants and toddlers between the ages of 4 and 24 months. To test for differences between Hispanic and non-Hispanic children in the percentage who consumed a particular food item, we calculated percentages and standard errors in SUDAAN and 95% and 99% confidence intervals. The most frequently consumed fruits and vegetables were determined by tallying the percentage of infants and toddlers who consumed each specific fruit or vegetable on a given day. Although there were some similarities, the early flavor and food experiences of Hispanic infants were different from similarly aged non-Hispanic infants in several ways. Hispanic infants younger than 1 year of age were more likely to have ever been breastfed and those who were 4 to 5 months were more likely than non-Hispanics to be eating pureed baby foods on a daily basis. Although less likely to be eating non-infant cereals and baby food vegetables, 6- to 11-month-old Hispanics were more likely to be eating fresh fruits, fruit-flavored drinks, baby cookies, and foods such as soups, rice, and beans that are common in many Hispanic cultures. When fruits were introduced into the Hispanic child's diet, they were most commonly consumed fresh. This higher prevalence of being fed soups, rice, beans, and sweetened fruit-flavored drinks as well as tortillas was also observed among the 12- to 24-month-old toddlers. Dietetics professionals should be aware of the cultural differences in the foods fed to infants and toddlers that may contribute to the development of long-term food preferences and impact on nutrition. Understanding the factors that underlie food preferences is important if we are to develop evidence-based strategies to improve children's eating habits and lower their risks factors associated with obesity and other chronic diseases.
16378371	Four new metabolites, botcinins A-D, were isolated from the culture filtrate of a strain of Botrytis cinerea. Their structures were determined by spectroscopic methods, mainly NMR techniques, molecular modeling, and the modified Mosher's method. They exhibited antifungal activities against Magnaporthegrisea, a pathogen of rice blast disease. Botcinins B and C have a MIC of 12.5 microM, and botcinins A and D are not active below 100 microM.
16378955	The granule-bound starch synthase(GBSS) is encoded by the rice Wx gene, which is the major gene for control of amylase synthesis of. This paper briefly introduced the progress in regulation of rice Wx gene expression at transcriptional level and post-transcriptional level. At the same time the influence of transgene, genetic background and temperature condition on Wx gene expression in rice was discussed. Finally some urgent questions were suggested for the further study on regulation of rice Wx gene expression.
16380417	OsRac1, one of the Rac/Rop family of small GTPases, plays important roles in defense responses, including a role in the production of reactive oxygen species mediated by NADPH oxidase. We have identified an effector of OsRac1, namely rice (Oryza sativa) cinnamoyl-CoA reductase 1 (OsCCR1), an enzyme involved in lignin biosynthesis. Lignin, which is polymerized through peroxidase activity by using H(2)O(2) in the cell wall, is an important factor in plant defense responses, because it presents an undegradable mechanical barrier to most pathogens. Expression of OsCCR1 was induced by a sphingolipid elicitor, suggesting that OsCCR1 participates in defense signaling. In in vitro interaction and two-hybrid experiments, OsRac1 was shown to bind OsCCR1 in a GTP-dependent manner. Moreover, the interaction of OsCCR1 with OsRac1 led to the enzymatic activation of OsCCR1 in vitro. Transgenic cell cultures expressing the constitutively active OsRac1 accumulated lignin through enhanced CCR activity and increased reactive oxygen species production. Thus, it is likely that OsRac1 controls lignin synthesis through regulation of both NADPH oxidase and OsCCR1 activities during defense responses in rice.
16381819	Centromeres have many unusual biological properties, including kinetochore attachment and severe repression of local meiotic recombination. These properties are partly an outcome, partly a cause, of unusual DNA structure in the centromeric region. Although several plant and animal genomes have been sequenced, most centromere sequences have not been completed or analyzed in depth. To shed light on the unique organization, variability, and evolution of centromeric DNA, detailed analysis of a 1.97-Mb sequence that includes centromere 8 (CEN8) of japonica rice was undertaken. Thirty-three long-terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposon families (including 11 previously unknown) were identified in the CEN8 region, totaling 245 elements and fragments that account for 67% of the region. The ratio of solo LTRs to intact elements in the CEN8 region is approximately 0.9:1, compared with approximately 2.2:1 in noncentromeric regions of rice. However, the ratio of solo LTRs to intact elements in the core of the CEN8 region (approximately 2.5:1) is higher than in any other region investigated in rice, suggesting a hotspot for unequal recombination. Comparison of the CEN8 region of japonica and its orthologous segments from indica rice indicated that approximately 15% of the intact retrotransposons and solo LTRs were inserted into CEN8 after the divergence of japonica and indica from a common ancestor, compared with approximately 50% for previously studied euchromatic regions. Frequent DNA rearrangements were observed in the CEN8 region, including a 212-kb subregion that was found to be composed of three rearranged tandem repeats. Phylogenetic analysis also revealed recent segmental duplication and extensive rearrangement and reshuffling of the CentO satellite repeats.
16381966	Rice, maize, sorghum, wheat, barley and the other major crop grasses from the family Poaceae (Gramineae) are mankind's most important source of calories and contribute tens of billions of dollars annually to the world economy (FAO 1999, http://www.fao.org; USDA 1997, http://www.usda.gov). Continued improvement of Poaceae crops is necessary in order to continue to feed an ever-growing world population. However, of the major crop grasses, only rice (Oryza sativa), with a compact genome of approximately 400 Mbp, has been sequenced and annotated. The Gramene database (http://www.gramene.org) takes advantage of the known genetic colinearity (synteny) between rice and the major crop plant genomes to provide maize, sorghum, millet, wheat, oat and barley researchers with the benefits of an annotated genome years before their own species are sequenced. Gramene is a one stop portal for finding curated literature, genetic and genomic datasets related to maps, markers, genes, genomes and quantitative trait loci. The addition of several new tools to Gramene has greatly facilitated the potential for comparative analysis among the grasses and contributes to our understanding of the anatomy, development, environmental responses and the factors influencing agronomic performance of cereal crops. Since the last publication on Gramene database by D. H. Ware, P. Jaiswal, J. Ni, I. V. Yap, X. Pan, K. Y. Clark, L. Teytelman, S. C. Schmidt, W. Zhao, K. Chang et al. [(2002), Plant Physiol., 130, 1606-1613], the database has undergone extensive changes that are described in this publication.
16381968	MPSS (massively parallel signature sequencing) is a sequencing-based technology that uses a unique method to quantify gene expression level, generating millions of short sequence tags per library. We have created a series of databases for four species (Arabidopsis, rice, grape and Magnaporthe grisea, the rice blast fungus). Our MPSS databases measure the expression level of most genes under defined conditions and provide information about potentially novel transcripts (antisense transcripts, alternative splice isoforms and regulatory intergenic transcripts). A modified version of MPSS has been used to perform deep profiling of small RNAs from Arabidopsis, and we have recently adapted our database to display these data. Interpretation of the small RNA MPSS data is facilitated by the inclusion of extensive repeat data in our genome viewer. All the data and the tools introduced in this article are available at http://mpss.udel.edu.
16381969	Insertional mutant databases containing Flanking Sequence Tags (FSTs) are becoming key resources for plant functional genomics. We have developed OryGenesDB (http://orygenesdb.cirad.fr/), a database dedicated to rice reverse genetics. Insertion mutants of rice genes are catalogued by Flanking Sequence Tag (FST) information that can be readily accessed by this database. Our database presently contains 44166 FSTs generated by most of the rice insertional mutagenesis projects. The OryGenesDB genome browser is based on the powerful Generic Genome Browser (GGB) developed in the framework of the Generic Model Organism Project (GMOD). The main interface of our web site displays search and analysis interfaces to look for insertions in any candidate gene of interest. Several starting points can be used to exhaustively retrieve the insertions positions and associated genomic information using blast, keywords or gene name search. The toolbox integrated in our database also includes an 'anchoring' option that allows immediate mapping and visualization of up to 50 nucleic acid sequences in the rice Genome Browser of OryGenesDB. As a first step toward plant comparative genomics, we have linked the rice and Arabidopsis whole genome using all the predicted pairs of orthologs by best BLAST mutual hit (BBMH) connectors.
16381971	With the completion of the rice genome sequencing, a standardized annotation is necessary so that the information from the genome sequence can be fully utilized in understanding the biology of rice and other cereal crops. An annotation jamboree was held in Japan with the aim of annotating and manually curating all the genes in the rice genome. Here we present the Rice Annotation Project Database (RAP-DB), which has been developed to provide access to the annotation data. The RAP-DB has two different types of annotation viewers, BLAST and BLAT search, and other useful features. By connecting the annotations to other rice genomics data, such as full-length cDNAs and Tos17 mutant lines, the RAP-DB serves as a hub for rice genomics. All of the resources can be accessed through http://rapdb.lab.nig.ac.jp/.
16381972	Rice Mutant Database (RMD, http://rmd.ncpgr.cn) is an archive for collecting, managing and searching information of the T-DNA insertion mutants generated by an enhancer trap system. We have generated approximately 129 000 rice mutant (enhancer trap) lines that are now being gathered in the database. Information collected in RMD includes mutant phenotypes, reporter-gene expression patterns, flanking sequences of T-DNA insertional sites, seed availability and others, and can be searched by respective ID, keyword, nucleotide sequence or protein sequence on the website. This database is both a mutant collection for identifying novel genes and regulatory elements and a pattern line collection for ectopic expression of target gene in specific tissue or at specific growth stage.
16382182	The removal of selected marker genes from transgenic plants is necessary to address biosafety concerns and to carry out further experiments with transgenic organisms. In the present study, the 12-amino-acid membrane translocation sequence (MTS) from the Kaposi fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-4 was used as a carrier to deliver enzymatically active Cre proteins into living plant cells, and to produce a site-specific DNA excision in transgenic rice plants. The process, which made cells permeable to Cre recombinase-mediated DNA recombination, circumvented the need to express Cre under spatiotemporal control and was proved to be a simple and efficient system to achieve marker-free transgenic plants. The ultimate aim of the present study is to develop commercial rice cultivars free from selected marker genes to hasten public acceptance of transgenic crops.
16382322	Rice soup is a traditional Korean food administered to control diarrhea. Useful for short-term control of diarrhea, chronic consumption of this soup can cause problems. We treated an infant who visited our hospital for symptoms of lethargy due to hypoelectrolytemia, which developed from the continuous consumption of rice soup (the upper part of rice ground in water) mixed with a spoonful of milk over a 2-month period to control frequent diarrhea. The case is reported here, together with a brief review of the literature.
16382362	We evaluated the genetic consequences and efficiency of conservation practices in Oryza rufipogon using microsatellite DNA markers. Spatial autocorrelation analysis from 12 microsatellite loci revealed that microsatellite alleles were exclusively distributed in patches within the population, indicating that large populations were unlikely to be homogeneous. An in situ conserved stand of O. rufipogon, which has been protected by a concrete wall from a large population, captured only 67.9% of the total genetic variation of the previous large population. The concrete wall was built to protect the wild rice, but it acted more as a physical barrier to gene exchanges between the two sides. An assignment test revealed only 11.1% putative seed exchanges across the wall. A reintroduced population was found to be genetically very diverse. About 76.3% of the total genetic variation detected in other populations was captured in this reintroduced population, and 24.8% of the total genetic variation in this population was not found in other populations. These results display two important findings for conservation of O. rufipogon. First, conserving one part of a large population of O. rufipogon will not preserve an adequate sample of the genetic variability, since populations are not homogeneous, and genotype distribution varies among localities. Second, a reintroduced population is not genetically depauperate, but it is too early to assess its long-term survival.
16383384	Experimental studies have shown that the Pb monolayer that segregates in the PbGa alloy liquid-vapor interface forms a two-dimensional hexagonal crystal that melts at 341 K, and it has been speculated that the disordered phase formed is hexatic. This paper reports the results of simulation studies of the in-plane structure of the outermost stratum of the liquid-vapor interface of a dilute Pb in Ga alloy. These simulations are based on four major improvements to a previous study. First, the simulation studies involve considerably more atoms and considerably longer equilibration runs than considered in the previous work of Chekmarev, Oxtoby, and Rice. Second, a more accurate nonlocal pseudopotential representation of the interactions in the system is used. Third, the amplitude of the out-of-plane motion of the Pb atoms is constructed to have the observed value. Fourth, an approximation to the role of the liquid Ga substrate is provided by adding a layer of Ga atoms to the layer of Pb atoms. The results of our simulation studies show that the Ga layer adjacent to the Pb layer has a profound influence on that layer's properties. In particular, it is shown that in the two-layer PbGa system the Pb layer forms, at low temperature, a stable two-dimensional crystal on top of liquid Ga. This two-dimensional crystal melts at a temperature close to that found experimentally. It is found that the crystalline Pb layer is transformed to the liquid state via two intermediate hexatic phases that differ in the magnitude of the bond orientation order. Each of the phase transitions along this melting pathway is first order. The temperature range over which each hexatic phase is stable is small. The profound influence of out-of-plane motion is demonstrated by a comparison of the results of simulations of a quasi-two-dimensional (Q2D) and of a strictly two-dimensional monolayer of Pb. The melting transition in the Q2D one-layer system is first order, directly to the liquid, with no intervention of a hexatic phase. The melting transition in the strictly 2D system involves two stages: a first-order transition to an intermediate hexatic phase followed by melting of the hexatic to a liquid phase. The latter transition is continuous over a small temperature range. An examination of the role of defects in the melting process reveals a picture rather different from that postulated in the Kosterlitz-Thouless-Halperin-Nelson-Young theory of 2D melting.
16383843	An infrared-absorption band centered at 0.85 eV, which is below the big optical absorption at the charge-density-wave (CDW) gap energy of 1.85 eV, has been observed for semiconducting single crystalline Ba(1-x)KxBiO3. With substituting K for Ba, the spectral weight of the new band increases with x, while that of the CDW-gap excitation decreases. Since the impurity state with the K substitution is known to be nonmagnetic at low temperatures, Bi3+ the state with 6s2 electrons surrounded by the six Bi5+ ions forms a small bipolaron by losing a pair of electrons in the Rice-Sneddon model. The new band is assigned to a transition from the lower-Peierls band to a state of the bipolaronic point defect.
16383858	Hard x-ray photoemission spectroscopy (PES) of Cu core electronic states, with a probing depth of approximately 60 A, is used to show that the Zhang-Rice singlet feature is present in La2CuO4 but is absent in Nd2CuO4. Hole and electron doping in La(2-x)SrxCuO4 (LSCO) and Nd(2-x)CexCuO4 (NCCO) result in new well-screened features which are missing in soft x-ray PES. Impurity Anderson model calculations establish screening from doped states as its origin, which is strongly suppressed within 15 A of the surface. Complemented with x-ray absorption spectroscopy, the small chemical-potential shift in core levels (approximately 0.2 eV) are shown to be consistent with modifications of valence and conduction band states spanning the band gap (approximately 1 eV) upon hole and electron doping in LSCO and NCCO.
16384895	We have previously shown that a human small GTPase Rac homolog, OsRac1, from rice (Oryza sativa) induces cascades of defense responses in rice plants and cultured cells. Sphingolipid elicitors (SEs) have been similarly shown to activate defense responses in rice. Therefore, to systematically analyze proteins whose expression levels are altered by OsRac1 and/or SE treatment, we performed a differential display analysis of proteins by the use of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. A total of 271 proteins whose expression levels were altered by constitutively active (CA)-OsRac1 or SE were identified. Interestingly, of 100 proteins that were up-regulated by a SE, 87 were also induced by CA-OsRac1, suggesting that OsRac1 plays a pivotal role in defense responses induced by SE in cultured rice cells. In addition, CA-OsRac1 induces the expression of 119 proteins. Many proteins, such as pathogenesis-related proteins, SGT1, and prohibitin, which are known to be involved in the defense response, were found among these proteins. Proteins involved in redox regulation, chaperones such as heat shock proteins, BiP, and chaperonin 60, proteases and protease inhibitors, cytoskeletal proteins, subunits of proteasomes, and enzymes involved in the phenylpropanoid and ethylene biosynthesis pathways were found to be induced by CA-OsRac1 or SE. Results of our proteomic analysis revealed that OsRac1 is able to induce many proteins in various signaling and metabolic pathways and plays a predominant role in the defense response in cultured rice cells.
16384900	The cereal aleurone layer is a model system for studying the regulation of transcription by gibberellin (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA). GA stimulates and ABA prevents the transcription of genes for alpha-amylases and other secreted hydrolytic enzymes, but how GA and ABA affect the transcription of other genes is largely unknown. We characterized gene expression in rice (Oryza sativa) aleurone using a half-genome rice microarray. Of the 23,000 probe sets on the chip, approximately 11,000 hybridized with RNA from rice aleurone treated with ABA, GA, or no hormone. As expected, GA regulated the expression of many genes, and 3 times as many genes were up-regulated by GA at 8 h than were down-regulated. Changes in gene expression resulting from ABA treatment were not consistent with the hypothesis that the role of ABA in this tissue is primarily to repress gene expression, and 10 times more genes were up-regulated by ABA at 8 h than were down-regulated by ABA. We also measured transcript abundance in aleurone of dwarf1 (d1) mutant rice. The d1 protein is the sole alpha-subunit of heterotrimeric G-proteins in rice. Genes up-regulated by GA or ABA had higher expression in wild type than in d1 aleurone, and genes down-regulated by GA had lower expression in wild type relative to d1 aleurone. The d1 mutation did not result in a decrease in sensitivity to GA at the level of transcription. Rather, changes in transcript abundance were smaller in the d1 mutant than in wild type.
16384910	Based on highly redundant and high-quality sequences, we assembled rice (Oryza sativa) mitochondrial genomes for two cultivars, 93-11 (an indica variety) and PA64S (an indica-like variety with maternal origin of japonica), which are paternal and maternal strains of an elite superhybrid rice Liang-You-Pei-Jiu (LYP-9), respectively. Following up with a previous analysis on rice chloroplast genomes, we divided mitochondrial sequence variations into two basic categories, intravarietal and intersubspecific. Intravarietal polymorphisms are variations within mitochondrial genomes of an individual variety. Intersubspecific polymorphisms are variations between subspecies among their major genotypes. In this study, we identified 96 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 25 indels, and three segmental sequence variations as intersubspecific polymorphisms. A signature sequence fragment unique to indica varieties was confirmed experimentally and found in two wild rice samples, but absent in japonica varieties. The intersubspecific polymorphism rate for mitochondrial genomes is 0.02% for SNPs and 0.006% for indels, nearly 2.5 and 3 times lower than that of their chloroplast counterparts and 21 and 38 times lower than corresponding rates of the rice nuclear genome, respectively. The intravarietal polymorphism rates among analyzed mitochondrial genomes, such as 93-11 and PA64S, are 1.26% and 1.38% for SNPs and 1.13% and 1.09% for indels, respectively. Based on the total number of SNPs between the two mitochondrial genomes, we estimate that the divergence of indica and japonica mitochondrial genomes occurred approximately 45,000 to 250,000 years ago.
16385566	Incidence of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) has been rising worldwide, but the reasons are undefined. Dietary habits may play a role in the etiology of NHL by influencing the metabolic pathways of several cells of the immune system. This case-control study investigated the relation between food consumption and NHL risk. Between 1999 and 2002, we conducted a hospital-based case-control study on NHL in 2 areas of Italy. Cases were 190 patients (median age 58 years) with incident NHL admitted to specialized and general hospitals. Controls were 484 patients (median age 63 years) with acute non-neoplastic conditions admitted to the same hospitals network of cases. A validated food-frequency questionnaire was used to assess habitual diet 2 years before interview. Unconditional multiple logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratios (OR) and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI), with allowance for energy intake, according to the residual model. Consumption of highest versus lowest quartile of pasta/rice (OR = 1.87, 95% CI: 1.04-3.36) and cheese (OR = 1.66, 95% CI: 0.98-2.83) were associated with a significantly increased NHL risk. Inverse association was found for vegetables (OR = 0.49, 95% CI: 0.28-0.87), fruits (OR = 0.51, 95% CI: 0.30-0.85), and egg consumption (OR = 0.59, 95% CI: 0.36-0.97). The association of pasta/rice was also supported by an increased risk of high glycemic load levels (OR = 1.86, 95% CI: 1.04-3.32). In conclusion, our results suggested that diet could affect NHL risk.
16386363	The present study deals with the characterization of low-cost rice husk ash (RHA) for its various physico-chemical properties and adsorption characteristics of metal ions. The average particle size of RHA was 150.47mum. Proximate analysis showed the presence of high amount of ash in RHA. Bulk density and the heating value of RHA were 104.9kg/m(3) and 9.68MJ/kg, respectively. The pore size distribution results showed that the RHA was predominantly mesoporous. The BET surface area was 36.44m(2)/g. The average pore diameter by BET was 42.603A. The BJH pore area showed 80% of the pore area due to the mesopores. The polar groups present on the RHA surface imparted considerable cation exchange capacity to it. RHA was found to be an effective adsorbent for the removal of cadmium (Cd(II)), nickel (Ni(II)) and zinc (Zn(II)) metal ions from aqueous solutions. The pH(0) approximately 6.0 is found to be the optimum for the removal of individual cations from the aqueous solutions by RHA at an optimum dose of 10kg/m(3). The kinetics of adsorption showed that the metal ions adsorption on RHA is a gradual process with quasi-equilibrium being attained in 5h. The pseudo-second-order kinetics represents the equilibrium data well. The effective diffusion coefficient of the cations onto the RHA is of the order of 10(-13)m(2)/s.
1638683	Consumption of alcoholic beverages has been identified as a major cause of oesophageal cancer in industrialized countries, with an exceptionally high risk associated with apple-based liquors (calvados). In the present study, we have determined the dose--activity relationship of the effects of coincident ethanol on the formation of O6-methyldeoxyguanosine (O6-MEdG) by the oesophageal carcinogen N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBzA). Male Fischer 344 rats received a single intragastric dose of NMBzA (2.5 mg/kg body wt; 7.4 ml/kg body wt) in tap water containing 0-20% ethanol (v/v). Survival time was 3 h. In controls, concentrations of O6-MEdG were similar in oesophagus, lung and liver (11-14.9 mumol/mol dG). In oesophagus, coincident ethanol increased levels of O6-MEdG from 15.2 mumol/mol (0.1% ethanol) to 46.0 mumol/mol (20%). This increase was dose dependent for 1-20% ethanol; however, low doses produced a larger effect per gram of ethanol than higher doses. In lung, concentrations of O6-MEdG increased from 11 mumol/mol (0.1%) to a plateau value of 24 mumol/mol (greater than or equal to 5%). In nasal mucosa, an increase in O6-MEdG from 3.9 mumol/mol (controls) to 30.7 mumol/mol was observed with 4% ethanol. Effects of ethanol on hepatic DNA methylation were statistically non-significant. Modulation of NMBzA bioactivation by various alcoholic beverages (adjusted to 4% ethanol) was also investigated. Increases in oesophageal O6-MEdG were similar (+50% to +116%) with pear brandy, rice wine (sake), farm-made calvados, gin, Scotch whisky, white wine, Pilsner beer and aqueous ethanol. Significantly higher increases were elicited by commercially distilled calvados (+125%) and red burgundy (+162%). In contrast to its effects at an ethanol content of 4%, farm-made calvados diluted to 20% ethanol produced significantly higher (+200%) increases in oesophageal DNA methylation than aqueous ethanol (+148%). Our results show that ethanol is an effective modulator of nitrosamine bioactivation in vivo at intake levels equivalent to moderate social drinking, and that some alcoholic beverages contain congeners that amplify the effects of ethanol, suggesting that modulation of nitrosamine metabolism by acute ethanol may play a role in the etiology of human cancer.
16386845	Adsorption equilibrium of stearic acid onto natural bentonite with Turkish origin was studied at the temperatures of 298, 308 and 318 K. SEM and XRD analysis show that the bentonite used as adsorbent is composed of microcrystal and porous structure. The specific surface area was determined by BET method as 38.6 m(2)/g. The adsorption of stearic acid onto bentonite was conformed to the Langmiur and Freundlich isotherms. The equilibrium parameter, R(L) revealed that the bentonite is a good adsorbent for stearic acid. The sorption capacity of bentonite studied decreases with increasing temperature. However, it is concluded that the adsorption capacity of bentonite for the stearic acid under the same experimental conditions is in comparable level in terms of that of the rice husk ash given in literature. Thermodynamic parameters, DeltaG(ads) degrees , was calculated to be between -21.8 and -22.8 kJ mol(-1). DeltaH(ads) degrees and DeltaS(ads) degrees were found to be -9.2 kJ mol(-1) and 42.4 J mol(-1)K(-1), respectively. These parameters obtained as a function of temperature indicate that the adsorption of stearic acid onto bentonite was a spontaneous and an exothermic process. An FT-IR study on the adsorbed material was used to verify the interaction of the stearic molecule with bentonite after adsorption process.
16387888	The broad-spectrum rice blast resistance gene Pi9 was cloned using a map-based cloning strategy. Sequencing of a 76-kb bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) contig spanning the Pi9 locus led to identification of six tandemly arranged resistance-like genes with a nucleotide-binding site (NBS) and leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) (Nbs1-Pi9-Nbs6-Pi9). Analysis of selected Pi9 deletion mutants and transformation of a 45-kb fragment from the BAC contig into the susceptible rice cultivar TP309 narrowed down Pi9 to the candidate genes Nbs2-Pi9 and Nbs3-Pi9. Disease evaluation of the transgenic lines carrying the individual candidate genes confirmed that Nbs2-Pi9 is the Pi9 gene. Sequence comparison analysis revealed that the six paralogs at the Pi9 locus belong to four classes and gene duplication might be one of the major evolutionary forces contributing to the formation of the NBS-LRR gene cluster. Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR analysis showed that Pi9 was constitutively expressed in the Pi9-resistant plants and was not induced by blast infection. The cloned Pi9 gene provides a starting point to elucidate the molecular basis of the broad-spectrum disease resistance and the evolutionary mechanisms of blast resistance gene clusters in rice.
16390431	The root hemiparasitic weed Striga hermonthica is a serious constraint to grain production of economically important cereals in sub-Saharan Africa. Breeding for parasite resistance in cereals is widely recognized as the most sustainable form of long-term control; however, advances have been limited owing to a lack of cereal germplasm demonstrating postattachment resistance to Striga. Here, we identify a cultivar of rice (Nipponbare) that exhibits strong postattachment resistance to S. hermonthica; the parasite penetrates the host root cortex but does not form parasite-host xylem-xylem connections. In order to identify the genomic regions contributing to this resistance, a mapping population of backcross inbred lines between the resistant (Nipponbare) and susceptible (Kasalath) parents were evaluated for resistance to S. hermonthica. Composite interval mapping located seven putative quantitative trait loci (QTL) explaining 31% of the overall phenotypic variance; a second, independent, screen confirmed four of these QTL. Relative to the parental lines, allelic substitutions at these QTL altered the phenotype by at least 0.5 of a phenotypic standard deviation. Thus, they should be regarded as major genes and are likely to be useful in breeding programmes to enhance host resistance.
1639046	Effects of dietary intervention on food choice were studied in 240 women aged 50-65 years who had been operated for a stage I-II breast cancer. Following surgery, the women participated in a dietary history interview and were then randomized to one of two groups. The intervention group (n = 121) received individual dietary counselling aimed at reducing dietary fat intake to 20-25% energy (E%), whereas no dietary advice was given to women in the control group (n = 119). For the 52% of the women in the intervention group that completed the study the total fat intake decreased from 36 to 23 E% (P less than or equal to 0.01) and from 37 to 34 E% (P less than or equal to 0.01) for the control group. There were significant reductions in the intake of table fat, high-fat milk products, pork and sausages (containing greater than 11% fat), eggs, rice, pasta, cakes and chocolate for the intervention group. Concurrently the intake of vegetables, fruits, potatoes, bread, cereals, low-fat milk products, low-fat meat, sausages and fish increased significantly. For the control group there was a significant decrease in the consumption of total milk products, total meats, rice, pasta, cakes, and butter intake while the consumption of vegetables, fruits, cereals and fish increased (P less than or equal to 0.01). Reduction of high-fat foods and increases of carbohydrate-rich foods were more pronounced for the intervention group than for the control group. Formal education influenced dietary changes, and dietary counselling should therefore ideally be adapted to education level. This study showed that dietary counselling can bring about significant changes in consumption of high-fat foods for at least a 2-year period for women operated for breast cancer.
16390952	In this study, we established an in-house database of yeast internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences. This database includes medically important as well as colonizing yeasts that frequently occur in the diagnostic laboratory. In a prospective study, we compared molecular identification with phenotypic identification by using the ID32C system (bioMérieux) for yeast strains that could not be identified by a combination of CHROMagar Candida and morphology on rice agar. In total, 113 yeast strains were included in the study. By sequence analysis, 98% of all strains were identified correctly to the species level. With the ID32C, 87% of all strains were identified correctly to the species or genus level, 7% of the isolates could not be identified, and 6% of the isolates were misidentified, most of them as Candida rugosa or Candida utilis. For a diagnostic algorithm, we suggest a three-step procedure which integrates morphological criteria, biochemical investigation, and sequence analysis of the ITS region.
16391040	Methyl fluoride is frequently used to specifically inhibit acetoclastic methanogenesis, thus allowing determination of the relative contribution of acetate versus H2/CO2 to total CH4 production in natural environments. However, the effect of the inhibitor on growth of the target archaeal population has not yet been studied. Therefore, we incubated rice roots as an environmental model system under anoxic conditions in the presence and absence of CH3F, measured the activity and Gibbs free energy (DeltaG) of CH4 production, and determined the abundance of individual archaeal populations by using a combination of quantitative (real-time) PCR and analysis of terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism targeting the 16S rRNA gene. It was shown that CH3F specifically inhibited not only acetoclastic methanogenic activity but also the proliferation of Methanosarcina spp, which were the prevalent acetoclastic methanogens in our environmental model system. Therefore, inhibition experiments with CH3F seem to be a suitable method for quantifying acetoclastic CH4 production. It is furthermore shown that the growth and final population size of methanogens were consistent with energetic conditions that at least covered the maintenance requirements of the population.
16391701	This present study is the first report of the application of the retrotransposon-microsatellite amplified polymorphism (REMAP) technique in fungi. Genome fingerprinting has a major role in the characterization of population structure and in the analysis of the variability in fungi. Retrotransposon-microsatellite amplified polymorphism assay was used in virulent isolates of a rice blast pathogen (Magnaporthe grisea) as a new assay system for genetic variability studies that overcomes the limitations of previous techniques. The high polymorphism observed in REMAP could be due to past or recent actions of retrotransposon in M. grisea. Retrotransposon-microsatellite amplified polymorphism, with its superior marker utility, was concluded to be the marker of choice for characterizing M. grisea isolates.
16392479	The conformational isomerization of a dipeptide, N-acetyl-tryptophan methyl amide (NATMA), is studied computationally by including important dynamical corrections to Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory for the transition rate between pairs of isomers. The dynamical corrections arise from incomplete or sluggish vibrational energy flow in the dipeptide, a property suggested by the mode-selective chemistry that has been observed by Dian et al. [J. Chem. Phys. 120, 133 (2004)]. We compute the extent and rate of vibrational energy flow in NATMA quantum mechanically using local random matrix theory, which we then use to correct the RRKM theory rates. The latter rates are then introduced into a master equation to study the population dynamics of the dipeptide. Incomplete or slow vibrational energy flow is found to enhance the conformational selectivity of NATMA over RRKM estimates.
16392668	Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) regulates the expression of multiple cytokines, chemokines, and cell adhesion molecules that are involved in the pathogenesis of asthma. We investigated the anti-asthmatic effects and the mechanism of action of DA-9201, an extract of the black rice, in a mouse model of asthma. Mice immunized with ovalbumin (OVA) were administered with DA-9201 (30, 100 or 300 mg/kg) or dexamethasone (DEXA, 3 mg/kg) for 2 weeks and challenged with aerosolized OVA during the last 3 days. Anti-asthmatic effects were assessed by means of enhanced pauses, level of total IgE and Th2 cytokines in plasma or bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), the percentage of eosinophils in BALF, and histopathological examination. The expression of NF-kappaB in nuclear and cytoplasmic fraction and its DNA-binding activity in lung tissues were analyzed by means of Western blotting and electrophoretic gel mobility shift assay (EMSA), respectively. DA-9201 significantly reduced airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), total IgE level in plasma and BALF, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 levels in BALF, and the percentage of eosinophils in BALF. Tissue inflammation was significantly improved by DA-9201 treatment. In addition, DA-9201 dramatically suppressed the expression of NF-kappaB and its DNA-binding activity. These results suggest that DA-9201 may be useful for the treatment of asthma and its efficacy is related to suppression of NF-kappaB pathway.
16392706	For effective exercise therapy after waking up, we focused on the staple food in diet therapy, and compared rice and bread diets. The subjects were 10 healthy college male students. After fasting for 12 h or more from the previous day, the subjects had breakfast consisting of rice (protein, 6.3 g; fat, 0.9 g: CHO, 79.3 g; energy, 368 kcal) or bread (protein, 15.7 g; fat, 5.8 g; CHO, 79.2 g; and energy, 450 kcal) containing the same amount of carbohydrates and the same side dishes (protein, 7.0 g; fat, 9.5 g; CHO, 21.3 g; energy, 199 kcal) in the morning 30 min before the initiation of exercise on a bicycle ergometer at an intensity of about 50% VO2max for 60 min. Measurements of the heart rate and expired gas were initiated 15 min before the start of exercise and continued until 10 min after exercise. Blood was collected before the meal, immediately before and 15, 30, and 45 min after the initiation of exercise, and immediately, 15, and 30 min after its termination. After breakfast containing carbohydrates, decreases were observed in the levels of free fatty acid and noradrenalin. Blood insulin (mealxtime, p<0.05 ANOVA) and triglyceride (meal x time, p<0.01, ANOVA) changed at higher levels in the bread diet than in the rice diet. Blood triglyceride is a resource of fat synthesis/accumulation, and insulin promotes its action. Therefore, the bread diet may promote fat synthesis/accumulation compared with the rice diet.
16392844	The kinetics of the reaction OIO+NO were studied by pulsed laser photolysis/time-resolved cavity ring-down spectroscopy, yielding k(235-320 K)=7.6(+4.0)(-3.1) x 10(-13) exp[(607+/-128)/T] cm3 molecule-1 s-1. Quantum calculations on the OIO+NO potential-energy surface show that the reactants form a weakly bound OIONO intermediate, which then dissociates to the products IO+NO2. Rice-Ramsberger-Kassel-Markus (RRKM) calculations on this surface are in good accord with the experimental result. The most stable potential product, IONO2, cannot form because of the significant rearrangement of OIONO that would be required. The reaction OIO+OH was then investigated by quantum calculations of the relevant stationary points on its potential-energy surface. The very stable HOIO2 molecule can form by direct recombination, but the bimolecular reaction channels to HO2+IO and HOI+O2 are closed because of significant energy barriers. RRKM calculations of the HOIO2 recombination rate coefficient yield krec,0=1.5x10(-27) (T/300 K)(-3.93) cm6 molecule-2 s-1, krec,infinity=5.5x10(-10) exp(46/T) cm3 molecule-1 s-1, and Fc=0.30. The rate coefficients of both reactions are fast enough around 290 K and 1 atm pressure for these reactions to play a potentially important role in the gas phase and aerosol chemistry in the marine boundary layer of the atmosphere.
16394586	During the "Green Revolution" of rice, high-yielding varieties (HYVs) were developed using a semi-dwarf gene (sd1 or OsGA20ox2). The presence or absence of the two mutant alleles (DGWG type in Dee-geo-woo-gen and JKK type in Jikkoku) were surveyed by PCR using 256 accessions of eight wild and two cultivate rice species. The DGWG allele was detected in a landrace (Oryza sativa) and two accessions of wild rice (O. rufipogon), all of which are from China, showing their limited distribution. Genealogical studies of the OsGA20ox2 gene showed that the 62 sequences of O. sativa and O. rufipogon included 20 distinct haplotypes, indicating that the species complex contained OsGA20ox2 genes from two different lineages. The silent site nucleotide diversities (pi and theta(w)) were extremely low in Japonica rice, suggesting a genetic bottleneck. The haplotype network showed that the DGWG and JKK alleles were derived in different lineages. The DGWG carrier (W1944) had unique polymorphisms in the surrounding region of the locus, suggesting that the DGWG allele has been preserved in the wild progenitor, rather than that the DGWG allele has been introgressed from HYVs to W1944. Although a semi-dwarfing plant is a weak competitor under saturated fields, the crossing experiment revealed that the DGWG variant might have been preserved as a hidden variation in the genetic background of wild rice, without expressing a short-stature.
16395568	This study describes the first detailed linkage maps of two bermudagrass species, Cynodon dactylon (T89) and Cynodon transvaalensis (T574), based on single-dose restriction fragments (SDRFs). The mapping population consisted of 113 F1 progeny of a cross between the two parents. Loci were generated using 179 bermudagrass genomic clones and 50 heterologous cDNAs from Pennisetum and rice. The map of T89 is based on 155 SDRFs and 17 double-dose restriction fragments on 35 linkage groups, with an average marker spacing of 15.3 cM. The map of T574 is based on 77 SDRF loci on 18 linkage groups with an average marker spacing of 16.5 cM. About 16 T89 linkage groups were arranged into four complete and eight into four incomplete homologous sets, while 15 T574 linkage groups were arranged into seven complete homologous sets, all on the basis of multi-locus probes and repulsion linkages. Eleven T89 and three T574 linkage groups remain unassigned. In each parent consensus maps were built based on alignments of homologous linkage groups. Four ancestral chromosomes were inferred after aligning T89 and T574 parental consensus maps using multi-locus probes. The inferred ancestral marker orders were used in comparisons to a detailed Sorghum linkage map using 40 common probes, and to the rice genome sequence using 98 significant BLAST hits, to find regions of colinearity. Using these maps we have estimated the recombinational length of the T89 and T574 genomes at 3,012 and 1,569 cM, respectively, which are 61 and 62% covered by our maps.
16397001	Endophytic nitrogen-fixing bacteria have been isolated from graminaceous plants such as maize, rice, and sugarcane. They are thought to promote plant growth, not only by fixing nitrogen, but also by the production of plant hormones. The molecular mechanisms involved in this interaction are not yet clear. In this work, the identification of a receptor-like kinase (RLK), named SHR5, which may participate in signal transduction involved in the establishment of plant-endophytic bacteria interaction is described for the first time. SHR5 seems to be part of a novel subclass of RLKs present in a wide range of plant species. The expression of this gene is down-regulated in sugarcane plants associated exclusively with beneficial endophytic bacteria and is not a general response caused by micro-organisms or abiotic stress. In addition, more successful sugarcane-endophytic bacteria associations have a more pronounced decrease in SHR5 expression, suggesting that SHR5 mRNA levels in plant cells are inversely related to the efficiency of the association.
16397782	In our previous cDNA microarray analysis, we identified 53 mature anther-specific genes, whose function was unknown, in rice. We reanalyzed these genes from the viewpoint of the specific amino acid motif. Out of 53 genes, three genes, Os-26, Os-32, and Os-169 (renamed as OsSCP1, OsSCP2, and OsSCP3), encoded cysteine-rich motif (Cys-X3-Cys-X13-Cys-X3-Cys), indicating that they were novel small cysteine-rich proteins. From the search of specific elements in promoter regions, several pollen-specific elements were found. In order to determine whether three promoters were functional in pollen or not, the gene constructs with promoter regions fused to the beta-glucuronidase gene were transformed into tobacco. Histochemical analysis showed that these promoters were active in the mature pollen grains and pollen tubes. Furthermore, OsSCP1 and OsSCP3 formed a multigene family tandemly in the rice genome. From the results, OsSCPs might have important roles in mature pollen development and pollen tube growth.
16398595	It is now accepted that inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis is effective in the primary and secondary prevention of heart disease. However, the perceived side-effects on muscle and liver reduce the general acceptance of statin drug therapy as well as compliance over the long term, which is necessary for prevention efforts to be successful. Chinese red yeast rice (CRYR) is a supplement containing lovastatin (monacolin K), eight other monacolins, pigments, tannins, and other phytochemicals. The authors previously reported on a double- blind placebo-controlled trial of CRYR supplement in 80 individuals demonstrating a significant decrease in cholesterol levels from 250 mg/dL to 210 mg/dL over 8 weeks independent of diet. The current study compared the pharmacokinetics of CRYR with lovastatin at the same bioeffective dose for lowering cholesterol. Eleven (11) healthy volunteers were randomized to a crossover study taking 2400 mg CRYR or 20 mg of lovastatin. The Cmax and area under the curve (AUC) of lovastatin were 22.42 ng/mL, and 80.47 higher than CRYR (p = 0.001 and 0.002, respectively). The Cmax for lovastatin hydroxy-acid was 36.63 ng/mL higher than the Cmax of CRYR hydroxy-acid (p = 0.001). The AUC of lovastatin hydroxy-acid was 258.5 greater than that of CRYR (p = 0.001). The results suggested that the effect of CRYR on the cholesterol concentration might be caused by the additive and/or synergistic effects of monacolin K with other monacolins and substances in CRYR. It may lead to the ultimate development of a botanical supplement based on CRYR.
16398996	Rice paddy fields in the Naboc area, near Monkayo on the island of Mindanao, Philippines, have been irrigated four times a year over the last decade using Naboc River water contaminated with mercury (Hg) by artisanal gold mining in the Diwalwal area. Silt containing up to at least 90 mg Hg/kg (d.w.) has been deposited in rice paddy fields during the 1990s and this has been repeatedly mixed into the rice root zone through ploughing. Hg in the rice paddy field soils averages 24 mg Hg/kg and generally exceeds the UK and Canadian soil quality thresholds for agricultural soils as well as the proposed Dutch Intervention value and the USEPA soil ingestion Soil Screening Level (SSL) for inorganic Hg. Much lower Hg concentrations (0.05-0.99 mg/kg) within the range expected for uncontaminated soils, characterise soils on which corn and bananas are cultivated, largely because these are not irrigated with Hg-contaminated water from the Naboc River. The estimated total weekly MeHg intake for a person living in the Naboc area related to the weekly consumption of 2.1 kg of rice grown on Hg-contaminated soils (15 microg MeHg) in conjunction with 1 kg of fish (220 microg MeHg) and 100 g of mussels (50 microg MeHg) from the Naboc River, would total 285 microg MeHg (equivalent to 4.75 microg/kg bw for a 60 kg adult), which is nearly three times the JECFA PTWI of 1.6 microg/kg bw. This will significantly contribute to the population mercury exposure and might explain why 38% of the local inhabitants were classified as Hg intoxicated during a mercury toxicity assessment [Drasch GS, Böse, O'Reilly S, Beinhoff C, Roider G, Maydl S. The Mt. Diwata study on the Philippines 1999-assessing mercury intoxication of the population by small scale gold mining. Sci Total Environ 2001; 267(1-3): 151-168.].
16399793	Influences of rising global CO(2) concentration and temperature on plant growth and ecosystem function have become major concerns, but how photosynthesis changes with CO(2) and temperature in the field is poorly understood. Therefore, studies were made of the effect of elevated CO(2) on temperature dependence of photosynthetic rates in rice (Oryza sativa) grown in a paddy field, in relation to seasons in two years. Photosynthetic rates were determined monthly for rice grown under free-air CO(2) enrichment (FACE) compared to the normal atmosphere (570 vs 370 micromol mol(-1)). Temperature dependence of the maximum rate of RuBP (ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate) carboxylation (V(cmax)) and the maximum rate of electron transport (J(max)) were analysed with the Arrhenius equation. The photosynthesis-temperature response was reconstructed to determine the optimal temperature (T(opt)) that maximizes the photosynthetic rate. There was both an increase in the absolute value of the light-saturated photosynthetic rate at growth CO(2) (P(growth)) and an increase in T(opt) for P(growth) caused by elevated CO(2) in FACE conditions. Seasonal decrease in P(growth) was associated with a decrease in nitrogen content per unit leaf area (N(area)) and thus in the maximum rate of electron transport (J(max)) and the maximum rate of RuBP carboxylation (V(cmax)). At ambient CO(2), T(opt) increased with increasing growth temperature due mainly to increasing activation energy of V(cmax). At elevated CO(2), T(opt) did not show a clear seasonal trend. Temperature dependence of photosynthesis was changed by seasonal climate and plant nitrogen status, which differed between ambient and elevated CO(2).
16399802	Genetic control of grass inflorescence architecture is critical given that cereal seeds provide most of the world's food. Seeds are borne on axillary branches, which arise from groups of stem cells in axils of leaves and whose branching patterns dictate most of the variation in plant form. Normal maize (Zea mays) ears are unbranched, and tassels have long branches only at their base. The ramosa2 (ra2) mutant of maize has increased branching with short branches replaced by long, indeterminate ones. ra2 was cloned by chromosome walking and shown to encode a LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARY domain transcription factor. ra2 is transiently expressed in a group of cells that predicts the position of axillary meristem formation in inflorescences. Expression in different mutant backgrounds places ra2 upstream of other genes that regulate branch formation. The early expression of ra2 suggests that it functions in the patterning of stem cells in axillary meristems. Alignment of ra2-like sequences reveals a grass-specific domain in the C terminus that is not found in Arabidopsis thaliana. The ra2-dm allele suggests this domain is required for transcriptional activation of ra1. The ra2 expression pattern is conserved in rice (Oryza sativa), barley (Hordeum vulgare), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize, suggesting that ra2 is critical for shaping the initial steps of grass inflorescence architecture.
16399803	The recessive tall rice (Oryza sativa) mutant elongated uppermost internode (eui) is morphologically normal until its final internode elongates drastically at the heading stage. The stage-specific developmental effect of the eui mutation has been used in the breeding of hybrid rice to improve the performance of heading in male sterile cultivars. We found that the eui mutant accumulated exceptionally large amounts of biologically active gibberellins (GAs) in the uppermost internode. Map-based cloning revealed that the Eui gene encodes a previously uncharacterized cytochrome P450 monooxygenase, CYP714D1. Using heterologous expression in yeast, we found that EUI catalyzed 16alpha,17-epoxidation of non-13-hydroxylated GAs. Consistent with the tall and dwarfed phenotypes of the eui mutant and Eui-overexpressing transgenic plants, respectively, 16alpha,17-epoxidation reduced the biological activity of GA(4) in rice, demonstrating that EUI functions as a GA-deactivating enzyme. Expression of Eui appeared tightly regulated during plant development, in agreement with the stage-specific eui phenotypes. These results indicate the existence of an unrecognized pathway for GA deactivation by EUI during the growth of wild-type internodes. The identification of Eui as a GA catabolism gene provides additional evidence that the GA metabolism pathway is a useful target for increasing the agronomic value of crops.
16399804	Rc is a domestication-related gene required for red pericarp in rice (Oryza sativa). The red grain color is ubiquitous among the wild ancestors of O. sativa, in which it is closely associated with seed shattering and dormancy. Rc encodes a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein that was fine-mapped to an 18.5-kb region on rice chromosome 7 using a cross between Oryza rufipogon (red pericarp) and O. sativa cv Jefferson (white pericarp). Sequencing of the alleles from both mapping parents as well as from two independent genetic stocks of Rc revealed that the dominant red allele differed from the recessive white allele by a 14-bp deletion within exon 6 that knocked out the bHLH domain of the protein. A premature stop codon was identified in the second mutant stock that had a light red pericarp. RT-PCR experiments confirmed that the Rc gene was expressed in both red- and white-grained rice but that a shortened transcript was present in white varieties. Phylogenetic analysis, supported by comparative mapping in rice and maize (Zea mays), showed that Rc, a positive regulator of proanthocyanidin, is orthologous with INTENSIFIER1, a negative regulator of anthocyanin production in maize, and is not in the same clade as rice bHLH anthocyanin regulators.
16400554
16400582
16403589	Plant disease resistance (R) genes mediate specific recognition of pathogens via perception of cognate avirulence (avr) gene products. The numerous highly similar AvrBs3-like proteins from the bacterial genus Xanthomonas provide together with their corresponding R proteins a unique biological resource to dissect the molecular basis of recognition specificity. A central question in this context is if R proteins that mediate recognition of structurally similar Avr proteins are themselves functionally similar or rather dissimilar. The recent isolation of rice xa5, rice Xa27 and tomato Bs4, R genes that collectively mediate recognition of avrBs3-like genes, provides a first clue to the molecular mechanisms that plants employ to detect AvrBs3-like proteins. Their initial characterization suggests that these R proteins are structurally and functionally surprisingly diverge. This review summarizes the current knowledge on R-protein-mediated recognition of AvrBs3-like proteins and provides working models on how recognition is achieved at the molecular level.
16403621	The paper focuses on studying the conversion of rice husks and sawdust into liquid fuel. Rice husks, sawdust and their mixture are pyrolyzed at temperatures between 420 and 540 degrees C, and the main product of liquid fuel is obtained. The experimental result shows that the yield of liquid fuel depends on various factors such as feedstock and temperature. The maximum yields for rice husks, sawdust and their mixture are 56%, 61% and 60% at 465, 490 and 475 degrees C, respectively. Analyses with GC-MS and other apparatus show that the liquid fuel is a complicated compound with low caloric value and can be directly used as a fuel oil for combustion in a boiler or a furnace without any upgrading. Alternatively, the fuel can be refined to be used by vehicles.
16403737	The aim of Oryzabase is to create a comprehensive view of rice (Oryza sativa) as a model monocot plant by integrating biological data with molecular genomic information (http://www.shigen.nig.ac.jp/rice/oryzabase/top/top.jsp). The database contains information about rice development and anatomy, rice mutants, and genetic resources, especially for wild varieties of rice. The anatomical description of rice development is unique and is the first known representation for rice. Developmental and anatomical descriptions include in situ gene expression data serving as stage and tissue markers. The systematic presentation of a large number of rice mutant and mutant trait genes is indispensable, as is description of research in wild strains, core collections, and their detailed characterization. Several genetic, physical, and expression maps with full genome and cDNA sequences are also combined with biological data in Oryzabase. These datasets, when pooled together, could provide a useful tool for gaining greater knowledge about the life cycle of rice, the relationship between phenotype and gene function, and rice genetic diversity. For exchanging community information, Oryzabase publishes the Rice Genetics Newsletter organized by the Rice Genetics Cooperative and provides a mailing service, rice-e-net/rice-net.
16403864	A strictly anaerobic, propionate-producing bacterial strain (WB4T) isolated from rice plant residue in anoxic rice-field soil in Japan was characterized phenotypically and phylogenetically. Cells were Gram-negative, non-motile, non-spore-forming, short rods. The strain utilized various sugars and produced propionate and acetate as major fermentation products with a small amount of succinate. The optimum growth temperature was 30 degrees C. Oxidase, catalase and nitrate-reducing activities were negative. The major cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C(15 : 0), C(15 : 0) and anteiso-C(17 : 0) 3-OH. Menaquinone MK-8(H4) was the major respiratory quinone. The genomic DNA G+C content was 39.3 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence placed the strain in the phylum 'Bacteroidetes'. The closest relative to strain WB4T was an environmental clone from water contaminated with equine manure (sequence similarity of 99.7 %) and the strain formed a distinct cluster with other environmental clones mainly from freshwater sediments. The closest recognized species were members of the genus Dysgonomonas, with 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities of 90.9-89.8 %. Bacteroides merdae was the next closest recognized species (similarity of 88.7 % to the type strain). Given that the ecological, physiological and chemotaxonomic characteristics of strain WB4T were different from those of any related species, a new genus and species Paludibacter propionicigenes gen. nov., sp. nov., is proposed to accommodate it. The type strain is WB4T (= JCM 13257T = DSM 17365T).
16404644	Shattering is an essential seed dispersal mechanism in wild species. It is believed that independent mutations at orthologous loci led to convergent domestication of cereal crops. To investigate genetic relationships of Triticeae shattering genes with those of other grasses, we mapped spike-, barrel- (B-type), and wedge-type (W-type) spikelet disarticulation genes in wheat and its wild relatives. The Br1 gene for W-type disarticulation was mapped to a region delimited by Xpsr598 and Xpsr1196 on the short arm of chromosomes 3A in Triticum timopheevii and 3S in Aegilops speltoides. The spike- and W-type disarticulation genes are allelic at Br1 in Ae. speltoides. The B-type disarticulation gene, designated as Br2, was mapped to an interval of 4.4 cM between Xmwg2013 and Xpsr170 on the long arm of chromosome 3D in Aegilops tauschii, the D-genome donor of common wheat. Therefore, B- and W-type disarticulations are governed by two different orthologous loci on group-3 chromosomes. Based on map position, orthologs of Br1 and Br2 were not detected in barley, maize, rice, and sorghum, indicating multiple genetic pathways for shattering in grasses. The implications of the mapping results are discussed with regard to the evolution of polyploid wheat and domestication of cereals.
16405680	To determine the incidence of emetic toxin producing Bacillus cereus in soil, animal faeces and selected vegetable produce to compare the results with the previously reported high incidence in rice paddy fields. To examine whether the emetic toxin has antibiotic activity. The incidence of emetic toxin producing B. cereus was evaluated by plating on selective agar 271 samples of soils, animal faeces, raw and processed vegetables. Overall, 45.8% of samples were positive for B. cereus. One hundred and seventy-seven B. cereus isolates were recovered at 30 degrees C with the grand mean spore count being 2.6 +/- 1.7 log(10) CFU g(-1) and 148 B. cereus isolates were recovered at 7 degrees C with the grand mean spore count being 2.2 +/- 1.2 log(10) CFU g(-1) of the 177 B. cereus isolated at 30 degrees C, only 3 were positive for emetic toxin production at a titre of 1/64, 1/32, 1/16, respectively. Also, 1 of 148 B. cereus isolated at 7 degrees C was positive for emetic toxin production to a titre of 1/128. All positive isolates came from washed or unwashed potato skins, one was psychrotrophic as determined by PCR and growth at 7 degrees C on subculture. The emetic toxin was not shown to have any antibiotic effects in growth inhibition studies. While B. cereus was a common isolate, the incidence of the emetic strain was rare. This is in contrast to previous findings of the high incidence in rice paddy fields and the processing environment, which may suggest rice is a selective area for growth of the emetic strain of B. cereus. The finding that a psychrotrophic isolate of B. cereus can produce emetic toxin is the first ever such observation and suggests the possibility that psychrotrophic isolates could grow in refrigerated fresh foods and cause emesis. The incidence of emetic B. cereus strains in rice paddy fields now requires further study for comparison with the low incidence found in other soils. The emetic toxin failed to inhibit the growth of other bacterial, fungal and yeast species. Whether the toxin (which is similar in structure to the antibiotic valinomycin) plays a competitive role in the environment therefore remains unclear.
16406238	A cDNA, designated Osfad8, encoding a chloroplast omega-3 fatty acid desaturase responsible for trienoic fatty acid formation, was isolated from the leaves of Oryza sativa L. by RT-PCR. Southern blot hybridization indicated that a small gene family composed of two copies or closely linked genes exists. RNA in situ hybridization showed that the accumulation of Osfad8 mRNA was abundant in leaves but hardly detectable in roots. The Osfad8 transcript level in leaves was much higher at 15 degrees C than at normal temperature (25 degrees C). In situ hybridization also showed particularly prominent expression of Osfad8 in the palisade layer and spongy parenchyma cells of leaves when exposed to 15 degrees C conditions for 5 days and 10 days. Two transgenic lines (8S-52 and 8S-101) harboring the Osfad8 ORF in sense orientation under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter contained increased levels of hexadecatrienoic (16:3) and linolenic (18:3) fatty acids. When exposed to 2 degrees C for 7 days, the damage observed to the control plants was significantly alleviated in the 8S-52 and 8S-101 lines. The amounts of trienoic fatty acids in an Osfad8 antisense line (8A-35) declined 40.2% compared to the control plants. The 8A-35 plants survived after growth at 44 degrees C for 3 days while the control plants died. These data suggest that Osfad8 encodes a temperature-dependent chloroplast omega-3 fatty acid desaturase.
16406581	Growth and physiological responses of rice to lanthanum were studied to elucidate the function of lanthanum in plants and its critical concentration relative to environmental safety. Shoot La content increased with the increasing added La concentrations. When shoot La content exceeded a toxic value, plant growth and chlorophyll a/b decreased and peroxidase (POD) activity, cell membrane permeability, and content of proline in the leaf increased. Leaf chlorophyll a/b and POD activity might provide useful criteria for early diagnoses of phytotoxicity of soil contaminated by La. In the present study, the critical concentration of La for rice relative to environmental safety was suggested to be 42.03 mg kg(-1) in red soil and 83.33 mg kg(-1) in paddy soil.
16406589	The effects of five rice herbicides bensulfuron methyl, mefenacet, quinoclamine, simetryn, and thiobencarb on the growth of two threatened aquatic ferns Azolla japonica and Salvinia natans were tested using 12-day exposure experiments at 0.1-100 nM which are expected to be present in drainages and rivers in Japan. As a reference species, Lenma minor was also used to examine the toxicity of bensulfuron methyl. Bensulfuron methyl had the most pronounced effect on the relative growth rate (RGR) of A. japonica, S. natans, and L. minor with an EC50 of 5.0, 0.54, and 10 nM, respectively. The other herbicides reduced the RGR of the aquatic ferns only at the highest concentration (100 nM) or not at all. S. natans showed the highest susceptibility to bensulfuron methyl among the three species, and the EC50 for this species was comparable to or below the maximum concentration (0.49-5.6 nM) that had been previously detected in 7 of 11 rivers in Japan. These results suggest that bensulfuron methyl runoff in drainages and rivers in Japan is expected to have adverse effects on the growth of threatened aquatic ferns in some cases, and that no or small effects occur for the other four herbicides tested.
16406599	The Ordos Plateau in China is covered with up to 300,000 ha of peashrub (Caragana) which is the dominant natural vegetation and ideal for fodder production. To exploit peashrub fodder, it is crucially important to optimize the culture conditions, especially culture substrate to produce pectinase complex. In this study, a new prescription process was developed. The process, based on a uniform experimental design, first optimizes the solid substrate and second, after incubation, applies two different temperature treatments (30 degrees C for the first 30 h and 23 degrees C for the second 42 h) in the fermentation process. A multivariate regression analysis is applied to a number of independent variables (water, wheat bran, rice dextrose, ammonium sulfate, and Tween 80) to develop a predictive model of pectinase activity. A second-degree polynomial model is developed which accounts for an excellent proportion of the explained variation (R(2)=97.7%). Using unconstrained mathematical programming, an optimized substrate prescription for pectinase production is subsequently developed. The mathematical analysis revealed that the optimal formula for pectinase production from Aspergillus niger by solid fermentation under the conditions of natural aeration, natural substrate pH (about 6.5), and environmental humidity of 60% is rice dextrose 8%, wheat bran 24%, ammonium sulfate ((NH(4))(2)SO(4)) 6%, and water 61%. Tween 80 was found to have a negative effect on the production of pectinase in solid substrate. With this substrate prescription, pectinase produced by solid fermentation of A. niger reached 36.3 IU/(gDM). Goats fed on the pectinase complex obtain an incremental increase of 0.47 kg day(-1) during the initial 25 days of feeding, which is a very promising new feeding prospect for the local peashrub. It is concluded that the new formula may be very useful for the sustainable development of arid and semiarid pastures such as those of the Ordos Plateau.
16406630	Cry1F protein, derived from Bacillus thuringiensis, is effective at controlling lepidopteran pests and a synthetic Cry1F transgene was transferred into maize. For the safety assessment of genetically modified food crops, the allergenic potential of the introduced novel trait(s) is evaluated. Because no single parameter is currently predictive of allergic potential, a 'weight of evidence' approach has been proposed. As part of this assessment, the amino acid (aa) sequence of the Cry1F protein was compared to a database of known allergens using recommended criteria. The Cry1F protein did not show significant similarity or a match of eight contiguous identical aa with any allergen. However, a single six contiguous aa match was identified between Cry1F and the Der p7 protein of the dust mite, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus. To investigate whether Cry1F was cross-reactive with Der p7, sera from 10 dust mite allergic patients containing Der p 7-specific IgE antibody were used to compare IgE-specific binding. No evidence of cross-reactivity was observed between Cry1F and Der p7. This study provides in vitro IgE sera screening data, that when considered in the context of other bioinformatic data [Hileman R.E., Silvanovich, A., Goodman R.E., Rice E.A., Holleschak G., Astwood J.D., Hefle S.L., 2002. Bioinformatic methods for allergenicity assessment using a comprehensive allergen database. Int. Arch. Allergy Immunol. 128, 280-291; Stadler, M.B., Stadler, B.M., 2003. Allergenicity prediction by protein sequence. FASEB J. 17, 1141-1143.], adds further evidence arguing against the use of a six contiguous identical amino acid search to identify potential cross-reactive allergens. Cry1F is heat labile, rapidly hydrolyzed in an in vitro pepsin resistance assay, not glycosylated and not from an allergenic source. Taken together, these data indicate a lack of allergenic concern for Cry1F.
16407444	Genes in the ERF family encode transcriptional regulators with a variety of functions involved in the developmental and physiological processes in plants. In this study, a comprehensive computational analysis identified 122 and 139 ERF family genes in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica), respectively. A complete overview of this gene family in Arabidopsis is presented, including the gene structures, phylogeny, chromosome locations, and conserved motifs. In addition, a comparative analysis between these genes in Arabidopsis and rice was performed. As a result of these analyses, the ERF families in Arabidopsis and rice were divided into 12 and 15 groups, respectively, and several of these groups were further divided into subgroups. Based on the observation that 11 of these groups were present in both Arabidopsis and rice, it was concluded that the major functional diversification within the ERF family predated the monocot/dicot divergence. In contrast, some groups/subgroups are species specific. We discuss the relationship between the structure and function of the ERF family proteins based on these results and published information. It was further concluded that the expansion of the ERF family in plants might have been due to chromosomal/segmental duplication and tandem duplication, as well as more ancient transposition and homing. These results will be useful for future functional analyses of the ERF family genes.
16407447	Since first identifying two alleles of a rice (Oryza sativa) brassinosteroid (BR)-insensitive mutant, d61, that were also defective in an orthologous gene in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE1 (BRI1), we have isolated eight additional alleles, including null mutations, of the rice BRI1 gene OsBRI1. The most severe mutant, d61-4, exhibited severe dwarfism and twisted leaves, although pattern formation and differentiation were normal. This severe shoot phenotype was caused mainly by a defect in cell elongation and the disturbance of cell division after the determination of cell fate. In contrast to its severe shoot phenotype, the d61-4 mutant had a mild root phenotype. Concomitantly, the accumulation of castasterone, the active BR in rice, was up to 30-fold greater in the shoots, while only 1.5-fold greater in the roots. The homologous genes for OsBRI1, OsBRL1 and OsBRL3, were highly expressed in roots but weakly expressed in shoots, and their expression was higher in d61-4 than in the wild type. Based on these observations, we conclude that OsBRI1 is not essential for pattern formation or organ initiation, but is involved in organ development through controlling cell division and elongation. In addition, OsBRL1 and OsBRL3 are at least partly involved in BR perception in the roots.
1640781	In 55 cases presenting with enlarged peripheral nerves without any skin lesions, a rice grain-sized biopsy of the nerve lesion was taken for histopathological examination. As a result definitive diagnoses could be established: leprosy was diagnosed in 32 cases. In 23 cases the cause of nerve enlargement was not leprosy: post-traumatic neuritis 9, cysts 5, hypertrophic neuritis 3, nonspecific 4, neurofibroma 1, and amyloidosis 1. In all of these cases there was a deficit of the nerve function and postoperatively there were no complications. The authors, as a result of this experience, believe that surgical exploration and biopsy is a harmless diagnostic tool for establishing a definitive diagnosis of leprosy in cases presenting with enlarged peripheral nerves without any skin lesions. In 23 out of 55 such cases the nerve enlargement was proved to be other causes than leprosy.
16410324	The determination of gene orthology is a prerequisite for mining and utilizing the rapidly increasing amount of sequence data for genome-scale phylogenetics and comparative genomic studies. Until now, most researchers use pairwise distance comparisons algorithms, such as BLAST, COG, RBH, RSD and INPARANOID, to determine gene orthology. In contrast, orthology determination within a character-based phylogenetic framework has not been utilized on a genomic scale owing to the lack of efficiency and automation. We have developed OrthologID, a Web application that automates the labor-intensive procedures of gene orthology determination within a character-based phylogenetic framework, thus making character-based orthology determination on a genomic scale possible. In addition to generating gene family trees and determining orthologous gene sets for complete genomes, OrthologID can also identify diagnostic characters that define each orthologous gene set, as well as diagnostic characters that are responsible for classifying query sequences from other genomes into specific orthology groups. The OrthologID database currently includes several complete plant genomes, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa, as well as a unicellular outgroup, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. To improve the general utility of OrthologID beyond plant species, we plan to expand our sequence database to include the fully sequenced genomes of prokaryotes and other non-plant eukaryotes. http://nypg.bio.nyu.edu/orthologid/
16410547	The PAIR2 gene is required for homologous chromosome synapsis at meiosis I in rice (Oryza sativa L.) and encodes a HORMA-domain protein that is homologous to Saccharomyces cerevisiae HOP1 and Arabidopsis ASY1. Immunocytological and electron microscopic analyses indicate that PAIR2 proteins associate with axial elements (AEs) at leptotene and zygotene, and is removed from the AEs of arm regions when homologous chromosomes have been synapsed. Immunocytology against a centromeric histone H3 variant revealed that PAIR2 remains at centromeres until diakinesis, by which time the homologous centromeres had already been synapsed. However, neither precocious segregation of sister chromatids nor kinetochore dysfunction is observed, and AEs are normally assembled in the mutant. In the pair2-null mutant, homologous chromosome synapsis is completely eliminated. This study provides the first description of AE-associated protein in monocot plants and indicates that PAIR2 plays an essential role in promoting homologous chromosome synapsis. However, PAIR2 does not play a role in AE formation, sister chromatid cohesion at centromeres or kinetochore assembly in meiosis I of rice.
16411016	Expansins comprise a superfamily of plant cell wall-loosening proteins that has been divided into four distinct families, EXPA, EXPB, EXLA and EXLB. In a recent analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa expansins, we proposed a further subdivision of the families into 17 clades, representing independent lineages in the last common ancestor of monocots and eudicots. This division was based on both traditional sequence-based phylogenetic trees and on position-based trees, in which genomic locations and dated segmental duplications were used to reconstruct gene phylogeny. In this article we review recent work concerning the patterns of expansin evolution in angiosperms and include additional insights gained from the genome of a second eudicot species, Populus trichocarpa, which includes at least 36 expansin genes. All of the previously proposed monocot-eudicot orthologous groups, but no additional ones, are represented in this species. The results also confirm that all of these clades are truly independent lineages. Furthermore, we have used position-based phylogeny to clarify the history of clades EXPA-II and EXPA-IV. Most of the growth of the expansin superfamily in the poplar lineage is likely due to a recent polyploidy event. Finally, some monocot-eudicot clades are shown to have diverged before the separation of the angiosperm and gymnosperm lineages.
16411447
16411926	Monocarpic plants require the initiation of whole-plant senescence to remobilize and transfer assimilates pre-stored in vegetative tissues to grains. Delayed whole-plant senescence caused by either heavy use of nitrogen fertilizer or adoption of lodging-resistant cultivars/hybrids that remain green when the grains are due to ripen results in a low harvest index with much nonstructural carbohydrate (NSC) left in the straw. Usually, water stress during the grain-filling period induces early senescence, reduces photosynthesis, and shortens the grain-filling period; however, it increases the remobilization of NSC from the vegetative tissues to the grain. If mild soil drying is properly controlled during the later grain-filling period in rice (Oryza sativa) and wheat (Triticum aestivum), it can enhance whole-plant senescence, lead to faster and better remobilization of carbon from vegetative tissues to grains, and accelerate the grain-filling rate. In cases where plant senescence is unfavorably delayed, such as by heavy use of nitrogen and the introduction of hybrids with strong heterosis, the gain from the enhanced remobilization and accelerated grain-filling rate can outweigh the loss of reduced photosynthesis and the shortened grain-filling period, leading to an increased grain yield, better harvest index and higher water-use efficiency.
16412081	Only graminaceous monocots possess the Strategy II iron (Fe)-uptake system in which Fe is absorbed by roots as an Fe3+-phytosiderophore. In spite of being a Strategy II plant, however, rice (Oryza sativa) contains the previously identified Fe2+ transporter OsIRT1. In this study, we isolated the OsIRT2 gene from rice, which is highly homologous to OsIRT1. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that OsIRT1 and OsIRT2 are expressed predominantly in roots, and these transporters are induced by low-Fe conditions. When expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) cells, OsIRT2 cDNA reversed the growth defects of a yeast Fe-uptake mutant. This was similar to the effect of OsIRT1 cDNA. OsIRT1- and OsIRT2-green fluorescent protein fusion proteins localized to the plasma membrane when transiently expressed in onion (Allium cepa L.) epidermal cells. OsIRT1 promoter-GUS analysis revealed that OsIRT1 is expressed in the epidermis and exodermis of the elongating zone and in the inner layer of the cortex of the mature zone of Fe-deficient roots. OsIRT1 expression was also detected in the ccompanion cells. Analysis using the positron-emitting tracer imaging system showed that rice plants are able to take up both an Fe3+-phytosiderophore and Fe2+. This result indicates that, in addition to absorbing an Fe3+-phytosiderophore, rice possesses a novel Fe-uptake system that directly absorbs the Fe2+, a strategy that is advantageous for growth in submerged conditions.
16412485	Plant O-methyltransferases (OMTs) are known to be involved in methylation of plant secondary metabolites, especially phenylpropanoid and flavonoid compounds. An OMT, ROMT-9, was cloned and characterized from rice using a reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The blast results for ROMT-9 showed a 73% identity with caffeic acid OMTs from maize and Triticum aestivum. ROMT-9 was expressed in Escherichia coli and its recombinant protein was purified using affinity chromatography. It was then tested for its ability to transfer the methyl group of S-adenosyl-l-methionine to the flavonoid substrates, eriodictyol, luteolin, quercetin, and taxifolin, all of which have a 3'-hydroxyl functional group. The reaction products were analyzed using TLC, HPLC, HPLC/MS, and NMR spectroscopy. The NMR analysis showed that ROMT-9 transferred the methyl group specifically to the 3'-hydroxyl group of quercetin, resulting in the formation of its methoxy derivative. Furthermore, ROMT-9 converted flavonoids containing the 3'-hydroxy functional group such as eriodictyol, luteolin, quercetin and taxifolin into the corresponding methoxy derivatives, suggesting that ROMT-9 is an OMT with strict specificity for the 3'-hydroxy group of flavonoids.
16413336	To evaluate the role of a wide range of foods on the risk of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), we conducted a case-control study in Italy between 1991 and 2002. Although BPH is an extremely common condition, particularly among older men, its risk factors, including dietary ones, remain largely undefined. Included in the study were 1369 patients younger than 75 years old surgically treated for BPH and 1451 controls younger than 75 years of age who had been admitted to the same hospitals as cases for a wide spectrum of acute, non-neoplastic conditions. A validated and reproducible food frequency questionnaire, including 78 foods and beverages, plus a separate section on alcoholic beverages, was used to assess patients' dietary habits 2 years before diagnosis or hospital admission. Multivariate odds ratios (OR) were obtained after allowance for energy intake and other major potential confounding factors. A significant trend of increasing risk with more frequent consumption was found for cereals (OR 1.55 for the greatest versus lowest quintile), bread (OR 1.69), eggs (OR 1.43), and poultry (OR 1.39). Inverse associations were observed for soups (OR 0.74), pulses (OR 0.74), cooked vegetables (OR 0.66), and citrus fruit (OR 0.82). No association was observed for milk and yogurt products, coffee and tea, pasta and rice, fish, cheese, row vegetables, potatoes, fruit, or desserts. The results of this study suggest a role for dietary habits on the risk of BPH. In particular, a diet rich in cereals and some types of meat and poor in vegetables and pulses may have an unfavorable effect in this Italian population.
16413588	The enzymatic characterization of GDP-d-mannose 3'',5''-epimerase (GME), a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of vitamin C in plants is described. The GME gene (Genbank Accession No. AB193582) in rice was cloned, and expressed as a fusion protein in Escherichia coli. Reaction products from GDP-d-mannose, as produced by GME catalysis, were separated by recycling HPLC on an ODS column, and were determined to be GDP-l-galactose and GDP-l-gulose, based on their NMR spectra and sugar analysis. The reaction catalyzed by GME was inhibited by GDP, and was strongly accelerated by NAD(+) in contrast to the case of GME from Arabidopsis thaliana. This difference in the effect of NAD(+) on GME activity can be attributed to the NAD binding domain which is conserved in the rice gene, but not in the Arabidopsis thaliana gene. The apparent K(m) and k(cat) were determined to be 1.20x10(-5)M and 0.127s(-1), respectively, in the presence of 20microM NAD(+). The fractions of GDP-d-mannose, GDP-l-galactose and GDP-l-gulose, at equilibrium, were approximately 0.75, 0.20 and 0.05, respectively.
16414676	Schoenobius inotata, a pheromone producing insect, commonly known as rice stem borer, was studied for its biochemical composition namely lipid, carbohydrate and amino acids. The studies involved the application of column, thin layer and gas liquid chromatography besides mass and proton magnetic resonance spectrometry. Amino acid analysis was performed on automatic amino acid analyser. No such report on this species has so far appeared.
16415213	Bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones from apomicts Pennisetum squamulatum and buffelgrass (Cenchrus ciliaris), isolated with the apospory-specific genomic region (ASGR) marker ugt197, were assembled into contigs that were extended by chromosome walking. Gene-like sequences from contigs were identified by shotgun sequencing and BLAST searches, and used to isolate orthologous rice contigs. Additional gene-like sequences in the apomicts' contigs were identified by bioinformatics using fully sequenced BACs from orthologous rice contigs as templates, as well as by interspecies, whole-contig cross-hybridizations. Hierarchical contig orthology was rapidly assessed by constructing detailed long-range contig molecular maps showing the distribution of gene-like sequences and markers, and searching for microsyntenic patterns of sequence identity and spatial distribution within and across species contigs. We found microsynteny between P. squamulatum and buffelgrass contigs. Importantly, this approach also enabled us to isolate from within the rice (Oryza sativa) genome contig Rice A, which shows the highest microsynteny and is most orthologous to the ugt197-containing C1C buffelgrass contig. Contig Rice A belongs to the rice genome database contig 77 (according to the current September 12, 2003, rice fingerprint contig build) that maps proximal to the chromosome 11 centromere, a feature that interestingly correlates with the mapping of ASGR-linked BACs proximal to the centromere or centromere-like sequences. Thus, relatedness between these two orthologous contigs is supported both by their molecular microstructure and by their centromeric-proximal location. Our discoveries promote the use of a microsynteny-based positional-cloning approach using the rice genome as a template to aid in constructing the ASGR toward the isolation of genes underlying apospory.
16416963	Endophytic SR-15, SR-25 and SL-37 strains screened from rice hybrid D you 527 in Sichuan were analyzed. Through penetration and microscopic test, the strains were found be mainly located in the cell gap, vacuole and cytoplasm. PUC18 transferring and ERIC-PCR showed that the recombination strain SR-15 could grow in the plant stably. The strain was identified as Bacillus halmapalus based on its chemical components of cell wall, physiological and biochemical characters. It was also shown that the strain was not injurious to rice plant, instead, it promoted rice plant growth by penetration. The Cry1Ac gene was transferred into the stain and verified by Southern analysis. Cry1Ac-transferred SR-15 was toxic to the Chilo suppressalis, brought about death ratio as high as 84.2%.
16416969	Using inter-subspecific hybrid rice of IIyou 2070 and IIyou 419 , their restorer lines 2070 and Zhong419, the various forms and levels of root-derived cytokinins(CTKs) in root exudates, and changes of various forms of cytokinins in rice flag leaves and grains were analyzed by HPLC and ELISA after initial heading stage. The results indicated that zeatin had 62.8% to 89.1% of total cytokinins and was the dominant form of cytokinins in root exudates during early grain filling, whereas, the contents of diHZ and diHZR greatly increased during milk ripening. This change was consistent with the dynamic changes of ZRs (Z+ZR)and diHZRs (diHZ+diHZR)in flag leaves of IIyou 2070 and 2070. Different from main cytokinin composition in root exudates, IPAs took high proportion of total CTKs in leaf and grain. We suggested that there were changes of various forms and activities of root-derived cytokinins in root exudates, and this change was related to catabolic enzymes of cytokinins and the different expression of enzyme genes. Meanwhile, the relationship between cytokinin changes of vigorous and weak spikelets and grain filling was disscused.
16417315	As the staple food of over half the world's population, hot cooked rice high in resistant starch (RS) is of particular interest, which will have greater impact in the dietary prevention of diabetes and hyperlipidemia. A mutant rice high in RS in hot cooked rice, described as RS111, was comparatively studied with the wild type and common rice. Despite obviously low RS content in the raw milled rice, the RS content in the hot cooked rice of mutant RS111 was significantly higher than that of the wild type and common rice and, correspondingly, in vitro starch hydrolysis by porcine pancreatic alpha-amylase tends to be incomplete with low hydrolysis extent for the cooked mutant rice high in RS. Obvious differences in physicochemical properties, starch granule morphology, pasting properties, thermal properties, and X-ray diffraction pattern were observed among the mutant RS111, wild type, and common indica rice. The high-RS mutant was characterized by significantly higher apparent amylose content and crude lipid content, higher percentage of oval-shaped granules and bigger oval size, reduced paste viscosity, and low onset temperature, peak temperature, final temperature, enthalpy of gelatinization, and crystallinity.
16418858	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that control the performance of tissue culture in rice were detected by using 116 RFLP markers and 183 BC1F3 lines derived from two varieties, Koshihikari and Kasalath. With time, the seed callus of Koshihikari tends to turn brown and stop growing, while that of Kasalath remains yellowish-white and proliferates continuously. The performance of tissue culture in the induction of calli from seed, the subculture of induced calli, and shoot regeneration were evaluated by five indices: induced-callus weight, induced-callus color, subcultured-callus volume, subcultured-callus color, and regeneration rate. Through callus induction and subculture, eight putative QTLs (P < 0.001) were located on chromosomes 1, 4, and 9. Among these QTLs, five Kasalath alleles and three Koshihikari alleles improved tissue culture performance. No QTL for regeneration was found. Among all the QTLs, qSv1 explained the largest phenotypic variance, 33%, in subcultured-callus volume. In induced-callus color, two detected QTLs accounted for 36.4% of the total phenotypic variance; this was the highest score among the five indices used to evaluate the performance of tissue culture. Three near-isogenic lines for QTLs, located in two regions on chromosome 1, were developed to evaluate their tissue culture performance. The Kasalath alleles in qSv1 and qSc1-1 improved callus color through callus induction and subculture, and increased the subcultured-callus volume and the fresh weight of regenerated calli, including shoots, roots, and differentiated structures. In qSc1-2, the Kasalath allele improved callus color through induction and subculture. These results verified the presence of QTLs for the volume and color of subcultured callus on chromosome 1, qSv1, qSc1-1, and qSc1-2.
16420001	We present simple atom and group-equivalent methods that will convert quantum mechanical energies of molecules to gas phase heats of formation of CHNO systems. In addition, we predict heats of sublimation and vaporization derived from information obtained from the quantum-mechanically calculated electrostatic potential of each isolated molecule. The heats of sublimation and vaporization are combined with the aforementioned gas phase heats of formation to produce completely predicted condensed phase heats of formation. These semiempirical computational methods, calibrated using experimental information, were applied to a series of CHNO molecules for which no experimental information was used in the development of the methods. These methods improve upon an earlier effort of Rice et al. [Rice, B. M.; Pai, S. V.; Hare, J. Combust. Flame 1999, 118, 445] through the use of a larger basis set and the application of group equivalents. The root-mean-square deviation (rms) from experiment for the predicted group-equivalent gas phase heats of formation is 3.2 kcal/mol with a maximum deviation of 6.5 kcal/mol. The rms and maximum deviation of the predicted liquid heats of formation are 3.2 and 7.4 kcal/mol, respectively. Finally, the rms and maximum deviation of predicted solid heats of formation are 5.6 and 12.2 kcal/mol, respectively, an improvement in the rms of approximately 40% compared to the earlier Rice et al. predictions using atom equivalents and a smaller basis set (B3LYP/6-31G*).
16422504	By the technique of in vitro gas production, this paper studied the in vitro fermentation characteristics of different kinds of crop straws and their combined utilization. The results showed that the theoretical maximum gas production and the gas production rate of silage corn were increased by 19.1% and 8.2%, respectively, compared to corn stalk. These two indices of mixed crop straws were higher than those of single crop straw, and significant positive interactions in gas production were observed after 48 h of incubation. It was concluded that a combined utilization of silage corn with different kinds of crop straws could be an efficient way to improve the nutritional characteristics. The optimum ratio of the mixture was 25/75 or 50/50 when silage corn mixed with wheat or rice straw.
16422505	A series of pot and field experiments and field demonstrations showed that in comparing with the commonly used specific-fertilizers containing same amounts of nutrients, single basal application of rice-specific controlled release fertilizer could increase the use efficiency of N and P by 12.2% - 22.7% and 7.0% - 35.0%, respectively in pot experiment, and the use efficiency of N by 17.1% in field experiment. In 167 field demonstrations successively conducted for 3 years in various rice production areas of Guangdong Province, single basal application of the fertilizer saved the application rate of N and P by 22.1% and 21.8%, respectively, and increased the yield by 8.2%, compared with normal split fertilization.
16422511	By the methods of incubation test and Hedley's phosphorus fractionation, this paper studied the effects of inoculating earthworm (Pheretinma pingi) on the phosphorus fractions and available phosphorus contents in red soil. The results showed that during a 100-day incubation, earthworm inoculation combined with organic materials (rice straw RS, peanut residue PR, and rape residue RR) amendment increased significantly the content of soil available phosphorus. Statistics analysis showed that there was a significant difference in soil available phosphorus content between treatments PR or RR with and without earthworm inoculation. Compared with the contents of anion-exchange resin P(trace), NaCO3-soluble P(14.5 mg x kg(-1)) and microbial P(1.0 mg x kg(-1)) in CK, those in treatments of earthworm inoculation plus organic materials amendment increased to 10.5 - 17.8 mg kg(-1), 23.5-35.6 mg x kg(-1), and 6.8 - 9.7 mg x kg(-1), respectively, organic phosphorus content enhanced from 37.9 mg x kg(-1) to 50.7-59.3 mg x kg(-1), whereas residual P was reduced. Earthworm performed an activated effect on the availability of phosphorus in red soil.
16422515	By the methods of environmental statistics and corresponding analysis, this paper collected 38 early and late rice grain samples from the middle, southern, northern, western and eastern parts of Fujian Province to detect their Hg, As, Cr, Cd and Pb contents, and to search for the main factors resulting in the difference of rice cropping type in different regions, aiming at further understanding the relationships between heavy metal pollution and rice cropping type. The results showed that among the test heavy metals in grain, Pb had the highest percentage (100%) beyond the standard level, followed by Hg (78.95%), Cd (50.5%) and Cu (2.63%), while As did not surpass the standard level. It therefore could be concluded that Pb and Cd were the main factors resulting in the difference of rice cropping type in different regions. The results also showed that 38 rice grain samples could be clustered into 7 groups, indicating that different rice cropping types would significantly cause different degrees of heavy metal pollution, which suggested that the best way in controlling and preventing rice grain heavy metal pollution could be the approach of combining site-controlling with variety selection, based on the situation of different regions and rice cropping systems.
16422582	The dependence of the rate of the reaction CO+OH-->H+CO2 on the CO-vibrational excitation is treated here theoretically. Both the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) rate constant kRRKM and a nonstatistical modification knon [W.-C. Chen and R. A. Marcus, J. Chem. Phys. 123, 094307 (2005).] are used in the analysis. The experimentally measured rate constant shows an apparent (large error bars) decrease with increasing CO-vibrational temperature Tv over the range of Tv's studied, 298-1800 K. Both kRRKM(Tv) and knon(Tv) show the same trend over the Tv-range studied, but the knon(Tv) vs Tv plot shows a larger effect. The various trends can be understood in simple terms. The calculated rate constant kv decreases with increasing CO vibrational quantum number v, on going from v=0 to v=1, by factors of 1.5 and 3 in the RRKM and nonstatistical calculations, respectively. It then increases when v is increased further. These results can be regarded as a prediction when v state-selected rate constants become available.
16423068	In the Asian region, indigenous fermented foods are important in daily life. In many of these foods, yeasts are predominant and functional during the fermentation. The diversity of foods in which yeasts predominate ranges from leavened bread-like products such as nan and idli, to alcoholic beverages such as rice and palm wines, and condiments such as papads and soy sauce. Although several products are obtained by natural fermentation, the use of traditional starter cultures is widespread. This minireview focuses on the diversity and functionality of yeasts in these products, and on opportunities for research and development.
16423419	Cereulide producing Bacillus cereus was isolated from randomly chosen commercial infant foods. The cereulide production in infant food formulas was investigated. When the reconstituted foods were inoculated with >10(5) cfu ml(-1) of cereulide producing B. cereus, 2 to 200 microg of cereulide per 100 ml of food accumulated during 24 h of non-refrigerated storage. The amount of cereulide measured in the foods by the accurate chemical assay (LC-MS) matched with that found by sperm micro assay, proving the cereulide was the sole heat stable toxin in the foods and present in its toxic form. The infant formulas containing both cereal and dairy ingredients were the most supportive for cereulide production. Cereulide accumulation was affected by the infant food composition as well as by the handling of the food. Diluting the reconstituted food with water resulted in increased toxin production expressed as mug per volume. More cereulide was accumulated when the food was incubated stationary compared with moderate shaking. The amount of cereulide accumulated within 24 h at room temperature per 100 ml of cereal and dairy or in rice-nondairy reconstituted infant formulas, inoculated with >or=10(5) cfu ml(-1) of B. cereus strain F4810/72, was higher or similar to the amounts reported for foods implicated in emetic type of food poisonings. Thus mishandling and temperature abuse of infant foods may cause food poisoning when emetic B. cereus is present.
16424920	Plants and animals mediate early steps of the innate immune response through pathogen recognition receptors (PRRs). PRRs commonly associate with or contain members of a monophyletic group of kinases called the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) family that include Drosophila Pelle, human IRAKs, rice XA21 and Arabidopsis FLS2. In mammals, PRRs can also associate with members of the receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase family, distant relatives to the IRAK family. Some IRAK and RIP family kinases fall into a small functional class of kinases termed non-RD, many of which do not autophosphorylate the activation loop. We surveyed the yeast, fly, worm, human, Arabidopsis, and rice kinomes (3,723 kinases) and found that despite the small number of non-RD kinases in these genomes (9%-29%), 12 of 15 kinases known or predicted to function in PRR signaling fall into the non-RD class. These data indicate that kinases associated with PRRs can largely be predicted by the lack of a single conserved residue and reveal new potential plant PRR subfamilies.
16425450	Nitric oxide (NO) is a highly reactive, membrane-permeable free radical, which has recently emerged as an important antioxidant. Here we investigated the protective effect of NO against the toxicity and NH4+ accumulation in rice leaves caused by excess CuSO4 (10mmol L(-1)). It was found that free radical scavengers (sodium benzoate, thiourea, and reduced glutathione) reduced the toxicity and NH4+ accumulation in rice leaves caused by excess CuSO4. NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was also effective in reducing CuSO4-induced toxicity and NH4+ accumulation in rice leaves. The protective effect of SNP on the toxicity and NH4+ accumulation can be reversed by 2-(4-carboxy-2-phenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethyl- imidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide, a NO scavenger, suggesting that the protective effect of SNP is attributable to NO released. Results obtained in the present study suggest that reduction of CuSO4-induced toxicity and NH4+ accumulation by SNP is most likely mediated through its ability to scavenge active oxygen species.
16425724	The use of insecticides in households and in agriculture has been incriminated in the emergence of insecticide resistance in insect vectors. For farming staff, the emergence of vector resistance is due to indoors spray of insecticides using aerosols and other low quality products in rural and urban settings against mosquitoes. On the other hand, public health specialists believe that the phenomenon of resistance could be due to massive use of insecticides in agriculture for field pests control. In Turkey, the implication of agricultural use of pesticides in the selection of vector resistance is clearly established. This study was framed to identify potential practices favouring the emergence of insecticide resistance in the Republic of Benin. Interviews and focus group discussions were organized with cotton, rice and vegetables farmers. The final aim of these surveys was to point out practices likely to favour the emergence of resistance. The research is conducted in 3 cotton fields, 2 rice fields and 2 vegetable plantations. After filling and signing concerned forms, farmers are subjected to quantitative and qualitative questionnaires to generate data on: insecticides being used, the various doses applied for pests eradication, the frequency of treatments, the cost of treatments (cost/hectare/year) the origin of insecticides, the place of purchase, safety precautions and related health hazards. The results of this study have shown that the use of insecticides in agriculture is a clear fact. During treatments, insecticide residues get in contact with mosquito breeding sites where they diffuse into water and exercise a selection pressure on larvae. This partially explains the high levels of resistance recorded in with strains of Anopheles gambiae collected in agricultural settings under insecticides pressure. Pyrethroids and more specifically deltamethrin and cyfluthrin are the insecticides mainly used in studied localities. Bedrooms of farmers are used as storage place for half-used and un-used insecticides containers. For a proper management of insecticides, cotton and vegetable plantations farmers receive assistance from the ministry of rural development. Because of the importance of cotton production in the Republic of Benin, trainings on management of insecticides in agricultural settings are frequently organised by the ministry of rural development and are opened to farmers and their family members (husbands, wives, children and relatives...). In the long run, the whole family learns and becomes very versant with the use of insecticides, spraying frequencies, spraying devices and spraying techniques.
16426847	A series of pyrolysis oils and chars were prepared from agricultural by-product rice husk by the lab-scale fast pyrolysis system using induction heating. The effect of process parameters such as pyrolysis temperature, heating rate, holding time, nitrogen gas flow rate, condensation temperature and particle size on the pyrolysis product yields and their chemical compositions was examined. The maximum oil yield of over 40% was obtained at the proper pyrolysis conditions. The chemical characterization by elemental, calorific, spectroscopic and chromatographic studies showed that the pyrolysis oils derived from the fast pyrolysis of rice husk contained considerable amounts of carbonyl groups and/or oxygen content, resulting in low pH and low heating values.
16427261	Bacillus licheniformis ZJU12, which was isolated from soil, could produce bacteriocin-like peptides that exhibited a broad spectrum of antagonistic activity against various species of Gram-positive bacteria and fungal pathogens, but not against Gram-negative bacteria tested except Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, a rice pathogen. The bacteriocin-like peptides were sensitive to proteinase K and trypsin. The activity was stable during temperature exposure up to 100 degrees C for 30 min, but lost completely at 121 degrees C for 15 min. The cell-free supernatant of B. licheniformis ZJU12 was shown to retain the activity within the pH range of 2-9, and the optimum pH for the activity was about 6.5. No adverse effect of the antagonistic compound to mice was observed in acute toxicity tests with the dose of 0.8 mg/20 g.
16427276	Two pilot composting experiments were conducted to investigate the effect of low initial C/N ratio on the composting of swine manure with rice straw by measuring physical and chemical parameters. The results showed that the thermophilic duration of bin 1 and bin 2 was long enough to satisfy the sanitary standard, and swine manure could reach maturity. Bin 1 containing larger amount of swine manure and less amount of rice straw showed a higher nitrogen loss (8%), shorter thermophilic phase, and longer maturity time (about 2 weeks) than bin 2. However, economical analysis showed a lower initial C/N ratio (20) could reduce 172 kg rice straw per ton fresh swine manure than a higher C/N ratio (25), and more swine manure could also be treated. Therefore, a low initial C/N ratio (20) could be suggested in the composting of swine manure with rice straw.
16428322	Changes in polyamine levels during aging were measured in 3-, 10- and 26-week-old female mice. The level of polyamines in pancreas, brain, and uterus was maintained during these periods. The level of spermidine slightly decreased in intestine, and decreased significantly in thymus, spleen, ovary, liver, stomach, lung, kidney, heart and muscle during these periods. In skin, the level of spermidine was maximal in 10-week-old mice and markedly reduced in 26-week-old mice. The results suggest that maintenance of polyamine levels may play important roles in the function of the pancreas, brain and uterus in 3- to 26-week-old mice. We next looked for polyamine-rich food materials as a dietary source of polyamines. Foods found to be rich in polyamines included wheat germ, rice bran, black rice, Philippine mango, green pepper, Japanese pumpkin, nuts, fermented pickles, pond smelt, turban shell viscera, whelk viscera, salted salmon roe, salted cod roe, beef intestine (boiled) and liver of eel, beef, pork and chicken; and, as previously reported, soybean, fermented soybean (natto), mushrooms, orange and green tea leaf. These results offer useful information when it becomes necessary to ingest polyamines from food.
16428324	Replication protein A (RPA) is a protein complex composed of three subunits known as RPA70, RPA32, and RPA14. Generally, only one version of each of the three RPA genes is present in animals and yeast (with the exception of the human RPA32 ortholog). In rice (Oryza sativa L.), however, two paralogs of RPA70 have been reported. We screened the rice genome for RPA subunit genes, and identified three OsRPA70 (OsRPA70a, OsRPA70b and OsRPA70c), three OsRPA32 (OsRPA32-1, OsRPA32-2 and OsRPA32-3), and one OsRPA14. Through two-hybrid assays and pull down analyses, we showed that OsRPA70a interacted preferentially with OsRPA32-2, OsRPA70b with OsRPA32-1, and OsRPA70c with OsRPA32-3. OsRPA14 interacted with all OsRPA32 paralogs. Thus, rice has three types of RPA complex: OsRPA70a-OsRPA32-2-OsRPA14 (type A), OsRPA70b-OsRPA32-1-OsRPA14 (type B), and OsRPA70c-OsRPA32-3-OsRPA14 (type C). Subcellular localization analysis suggested that the type-A RPA complex is required for chloroplast DNA metabolism, whereas types B and C function in nuclear DNA metabolism.
16428841	A selective and speedy LC-MS/MS method was developed to determine six trichothecene mycotoxins (nivalenol, deoxynivalenol, fusarenon X, 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol, 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol, and T-2 toxin) in rice medium where Fusarium graminearum were cultivated for in vitro tests. The analytes were extracted from the rice medium with acetonitrile/water (85/15, v/v), and diluted with acetonitrile/water (5/95, v/v) in order to minimize the effects of matrices. Diluted solutions were analyzed by LC-MS/MS with electrospray ionization (ESI) interface in negative or positive ion mode and the multiple reaction monitoring mode. Recovery rates were 76-106% with a spiked level at 1-6 microg/kg of mycotoxins that corresponded to the limit of quantitation. The method was applied to study the time courses of trichothecene production and the biomass of fungi by three Fusarium graminearum strains. Three strains have different mycotoxin biosynthesis pathways, wFg14 and 03E-1 were DON producer, and 03N-1 was NIV producer.
16429213	The objective of this randomized study was to determine if fiber-supplemented soy formula reduced regurgitation in young infants. We compared regurgitation in 179 infants randomly assigned cow's milk-based (CM, 90) formula or soy formula with fiber (SF, 89). Initial daily incidence was similar (CM, 3.6; SF, 3.9 episodes), but significantly lower after 7 days on SF (CM, 3.4; SF, 2.3; p = 0.001). Less frequent regurgitation after 7 days on SF was sustained after 28 days (CM, 48%; SF, 31% of feedings; p = 0.001). Feeding SF effectively managed regurgitation while providing balanced nutrition without altering caloric distribution as occurs with adding rice cereal to formula.
16429260	Mitochondrial maturation during imbibition of rice embryos follows the transition of unstructured double membrane bound pro-mitochondria to the typical cristae-rich mitochondrial structures observed in mature plant cells. During the first 48 h following imbibition, an ordered increase in the abundance of transcripts encoding mitochondrial proteins was observed. Co-incident with these changes in transcript levels was dynamic and rapid changes in mitochondrial protein content and mitochondrial function. Proteins representing components of the mitochondrial protein import apparatus are strikingly abundant in dry seeds, and a functional import apparatus was shown to operate 2 h after imbibition. Interestingly, this import process was best driven by the oxidation of NADH from outside the mitochondrial inner membrane. In later developmental stages the capacity for matrix organic acid metabolism was evident, accompanied by the appearance of proteins for TCA cycle components, and coordination of electron transport chain assembly through components encoded in both mitochondrial and nuclear genomes. Together these events provide new insights into the understanding of mitochondrial maturation and the nature of pro-mitochondrial structures in plant cells.
16429261	An 808 bp promoter from a rice polyubiquitin gene, rubi3, has been isolated. The rubi3 gene contained an open reading frame of 1,140 bp encoding a pentameric polyubiquitin arranged as five tandem, head-to-tail repeats of 76 aa. The 1,140 bp 5' UTR intron of the gene enhanced its promoter activity in transient expression assays by 20-fold. Translational fusion of the GUS reporter gene to the coding sequence of the ubiquitin monomer enhanced GUS enzyme activity in transient expression assays by 4.3-fold over the construct containing the original rubi3 promoter (including the 5' UTR intron) construct. The enhancing effect residing in the ubiquitin monomer coding sequence has been narrowed down to the first 9 nt coding for the first three amino acid residues of the ubiquitin protein. Mutagenesis at the third nucleotide of this 9 nt sequence still maintains the enhancing effect, but leads to translation of the native GUS protein rather than a fusion protein. The resultant 5' regulatory sequence, consisting of the rubi3 promoter, 5' UTR exon and intron, and the mutated first 9 nt coding sequence, has an activity nearly 90-fold greater than the rubi3 promoter only (without the 5' UTR intron), and 2.2-fold greater than the maize Ubi1 gene promoter (including its 5' UTR intron). The newly created expression vector is expected to enhance transgene expression in monocot plants. Considering the high conservation of the polyubiquitin gene structure in higher plants, the observed enhancement in gene expression may apply to 5' regulatory sequences of other plant polyubiquitin genes.
16429310	Unigene derived microsatellite (UGMS) markers have the advantage of assaying variation in the expressed component of the genome with unique identity and positions. We characterized the microsatellite motifs present in the unigenes of five cereal species namely, rice, wheat, maize, Sorghum and barley and compared with those in Arabidopsis. The overall UGMS frequency in the five cereal species was 1/7.6 kb. The maximum UGMS frequency was in rice (1/3.6 kb) and the lowest in wheat (1/10.6 kb). GC-rich trinucleotide repeat motifs coding for alanine followed by arginine and the dinucleotide repeat motif GA were found to be abundant UGMS classes across all the five cereal species. Primers could be designed for 95% (wheat and barley) to 97% (rice) of the identified microsatellites. The proportion and frequency of occurrence of long hypervariable class I (> or = 20 nucleotides) and potentially variable class II (12-20 nucleotides) UGMS across five cereal species were characterized. The class I UGMS markers were physically mapped in silico on to the finished rice genome and bin-mapped in wheat. Comparative mapping based on class I UGMS markers in rice and wheat revealed syntenic relationships between the two genomes. High degree of conservation and cross-transferability of the class I UGMS markers were evident among the five cereal species, which was validated experimentally. The class I UGMS-conserved orthologous set (COS) markers identified in this study would be useful for understanding the evolution of genes and genomes in cereals.
16429798	A novel determination method for urea using an acid urease column-FIA system was developed, and the system was applied to the determination of urea in rice wine. This novel FIA system was characterized by CO2 detection due to the property of acid urease and by a microfluidic gas-diffusion device with the use of an ultra-thin hollow fiber membrane. A biosensing system fabricated in this study was assembled with a double-plunger pump, a sample-injection valve, an immobilized acid urease column as a recognition element for the assay of urea, a gas-diffusion unit, and a flow-type spectrophotometer. The gas-diffusion unit consisted of a double-tubing structure in which the outer tubing was made of PTFE (i.d. 1.0 mm; o.d. 1.5 mm) and the inner tubing was of porous PTFE (i.d. 0.19 mm; o.d. 0.25 mm). Standard urea solutions (20 microl) were measured through monitoring variations in the absorbance of a coloring agent solution resulting from a pH shift due to carbon dioxide molecules being enzymatically generated. A wide and linear relationship was obtained between the concentration of urea (16 microM - 1.0 mM) and the change in absorbance. This FIA system has great advantages that the system did not suffer from ammonia and ethanol in samples. This system, armed with a microfluidic gas-diffusion device, was applicable to the determination of various substrates of many kinds of decarboxylase, amino-acid oxidase, and amino-acid oxygenase, producing CO2 and NH3 molecules.
16431385	Bacitracin is being imported in Pakistan involving substantial amount of foreign exchange for its incorporation in poultry feed. The cheap raw material for its production is readily available and cheap such as soybean meal, sunflower meal, wheat bran etc. Thus development of this technology in our country would result in saving a reasonable amount of foreign exchange by exploiting indigenous resources. The present study is concerned with the biosynthesis of antibiotic bacitracin in solid-state fermentation by Bacillus licheniformis on laboratory scale using defatted oil seed cakes of agricultural by-products as starting material for maximum production of the antibiotic Bacitracin. In solid-state fermentation, wheat bran, soybean meal, sunflower meal, rice hulls and their different combinations were used. The antibiotic activity, 48 hours after inoculation was 4375 i.u / gm when only soybean was used. However, maximum titre 4820 i.u / gm of antibiotic was obtained using wheat bran and soybean meal in ratio of 1:3.
1643168	Vacuole response in HEp-2 cells was induced with culture supernatants of Bacillus cereus strains isolated from outbreaks of vomiting- and diarrheal-type food poisoning grown in rice flour and laboratory media. High vacuole response was obtained with culture supernatants of B. cereus strains isolated from vomiting-type food poisoning grown in cooked rice suspension or on a cooked rice plate, whereas no response was obtained with those of the same strains grown in brain heart infusion and trypto-soya broth media. The vacuole activity appeared only after spore formation of B. cereus. The activity was stable to proteolytic enzymes, heating, and exposing to pH 2.0 and 11.0. Of 124 strains isolated from B. cereus food poisoning that were tested, the vacuole activity was observed by 68 of 110 (61.8%) of the strains isolated from the vomiting-type food poisoning but not by all strains (14 strains) from diarrheal-type ones. Moreover, the vacuole response in the HEp-2 cells was found to be induced by 56 of 76 (73.7%) of the serotype H-1 strains isolated from vomiting-type food poisoning.
16432722	A confirmatory method for the determination of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) and their metabolites (endrin, alpha-endosulfan, beta-endosulfan, endosulfan sulfate, heptachlor, heptachlor epoxide, 2,4'-DDD, 4,4'-DDD, 2,4'-DDE 4,4'-DDE, 2,4'-DDT, and 4,4'-DDT) in surface waters using liquid chromatography /APCI/tandem mass spectrometry has been developed. Chromatographic separation was carried out on a ChromSpher 5 Pesticide column using a gradient elution with mobile phase 1mM ammonium acetate-acetonitrile. Endrin, alpha-endosulfan, beta-endosulfan , endosulfan sulfate, heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide were determined in the negative ionization mode, while the rest compounds in positive ionization mode. For the identification of the analytes, two multireaction monitoring transitions were selected per compounds except for the heptachlor which selected ion monitoring was used. The linearity of the optimized method ranges after SPE concentration, from 0.009 to 30.60 microgL(-1) with correlation coefficients greater than 0.99. The method recovery values varied from 72 to 119 % for the different fortification levels . The developed method was successfully applied to determine OCPs and their metabolites in surface water samples collected near paddy fields in growing season of rice, at year 2005 in Pathumthani province, Thailand. Endosulfan sulfate was detected in five out of seven samples and three of them could be quantitated in the range of 0.31 to 0.50 microgL(-1).
16432737	Introgression has been achieved from wild species Oryza grandiglumis (2n = 48, CCDD, Acc. No. 101154) into O. sativa subsp. japonica cv. Hwaseongbyeo as a recurrent parent. An advanced introgression (backcross) line, HG101, produced from a single plant from BC5F3 families resembled Hwaseongbyeo, but it showed differences from Hwaseongbyeo in several traits, including days to heading and culm length. To detect the introgressions, 450 microsatellite markers of known chromosomal position were used for the parental survey. Of the 450 markers, 51 (11.3%) detected O. grandiglumis segments in HG101. To characterize the effects of alien genes introgressed into HG101, an F(2:3) population (150 families) from the cross Hwaseongbyeo/HG101 was developed and evaluated for 13 agronomic traits. Several lines outperformed Hwaseongbyeo in several traits, including days to heading. Genotypes were determined for 150 F2 plants using simple sequence repeat markers. Qualitative trait locus (QTL) analysis was carried out to determine the relationship between marker genotype and the traits evaluated. A total of 39 QTL and 1 gene conferring resistance to blast isolate were identified using single-point analysis. Phenotypic variation associated with each QTL ranged from 4.2 to 30.5%. For 18 (46.2%) of the QTL identified in this study, the O. grandiglumis-derived alleles contributed a desirable agronomic effect despite the overall undesirable characteristics of the wild phenotype. Favorable wild alleles were detected for days to heading, spikelets per panicle, and grain shape traits. Grain shape QTL for grain weight, thickness, and width identified in the F(2:3) lines were further confirmed based on the F4 progeny test. The confirmed locus, tgw2 for grain weight is of particular interest because of its independence from undesirable height and maturity. Several QTL controlling amylose content and grain traits have not been detected in the previous QTL studies between Oryza cultivars, indicating potentially novel alleles from O. grandiglumis. The QTL detected in this study could be a rich source of natural genetic variation underlying the evolution and breeding of rice.
16433090	Predictions of yield for the globe's major grain and legume arable crops suggest that, with a moderate temperature increase, production may increase in the temperate zone, but decline in the tropics. In total, global food supply may show little change. This security comes from inclusion of the direct effect of rising carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration, [CO2], which significantly stimulates yield by decreasing photorespiration in C3 crops and transpiration in all crops. Evidence for a large response to [CO2] is largely based on studies made within chambers at small scales, which would be considered unacceptable for standard agronomic trials of new cultivars or agrochemicals. Yet, predictions of the globe's future food security are based on such inadequate information. Free-Air Concentration Enrichment (FACE) technology now allows investigation of the effects of rising [CO2] and ozone on field crops under fully open-air conditions at an agronomic scale. Experiments with rice, wheat, maize and soybean show smaller increases in yield than anticipated from studies in chambers. Experiments with increased ozone show large yield losses (20%), which are not accounted for in projections of global food security. These findings suggest that current projections of global food security are overoptimistic. The fertilization effect of CO2 is less than that used in many models, while rising ozone will cause large yield losses in the Northern Hemisphere. Unfortunately, FACE studies have been limited in geographical extent and interactive effects of CO2, ozone and temperature have yet to be studied. Without more extensive study of the effects of these changes at an agronomic scale in the open air, our ever-more sophisticated models will continue to have feet of clay.
16433100	A regional climate change model (PRECIS) for China, developed by the UK's Hadley Centre, was used to simulate China's climate and to develop climate change scenarios for the country. Results from this project suggest that, depending on the level of future emissions, the average annual temperature increase in China by the end of the twenty-first century may be between 3 and 4 degrees C. Regional crop models were driven by PRECIS output to predict changes in yields of key Chinese food crops: rice, maize and wheat. Modelling suggests that climate change without carbon dioxide (CO2) fertilization could reduce the rice, maize and wheat yields by up to 37% in the next 20-80 years. Interactions of CO2 with limiting factors, especially water and nitrogen, are increasingly well understood and capable of strongly modulating observed growth responses in crops. More complete reporting of free-air carbon enrichment experiments than was possible in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Third Assessment Report confirms that CO2 enrichment under field conditions consistently increases biomass and yields in the range of 5-15%, with CO2 concentration elevated to 550 ppm Levels of CO2 that are elevated to more than 450 ppm will probably cause some deleterious effects in grain quality. It seems likely that the extent of the CO2 fertilization effect will depend upon other factors such as optimum breeding, irrigation and nutrient applications.
16434856	In the human and equine species, different kinds of free floating intra-articular particles are related to certain disorders. Osteochondral fragments formed during osteochondrosis dissecans are the most common finding in the equine species, whereas in humans rice bodies due to rheumatoid arthritis are more frequent. Herein we report a third type of floating body inside the stifle of an adult draught horse stallion, in macroscopic appearance similar to articular rice bodies known in humans. As revealed by histologic examination, the two particles consist of polypoid degenerated structures derived from synovial villi. Their formation was probably induced by ischemia.
16435809	Statistical adiabatic channel model/classical trajectory (SACM/CT) calculations have been performed for transitional mode dynamics in the simple bond fission reactions of C(6)H(6)(+) --> C(6)H(5)(+) + H and n-C(6)H(5)C(4)H(9)(+) --> C(7)H(7)(+) + n-C(3)H(7). Reduced-dimensionality model potentials have been designed that take advantage of ab initio results as far as available. Average anisotropy amplitudes of the potentials were fitted by comparison of calculated specific rate constants k(E,J) with measured values. The kinetic shifts of the calculated k(E) curves and the corresponding bond energies E(0)(J=0), derived as 3.90 +/- 0.05 eV for C(6)H(6)(+) and 1.78 +/- 0.05 eV for n-C(6)H(5)C(4)H(9)(+), were in good agreement with literature values from thermochemical studies. Kinetic shifts from fixed tight activated complex Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory, which also reproduces the measured k(E), were larger than the present SACM/CT results as well as earlier results from variational transition state theory (for C(6)H(6)(+)). The approach using RRKM theory was found to underestimate E(0)(J=0) by about 0.2-0.3 eV. A simplified SACM/CT-based method is also proposed which circumvents the trajectory calculations and allows derivation of E(0)(J=0) on the basis of measured k(E) and which provides similar accuracy as the full SACM/CT treatment.
16435825	This work investigates the unimolecular dissociation of the methoxycarbonyl, CH(3)OCO, radical. Photolysis of methyl chloroformate at 193 nm produces nascent CH(3)OCO radicals with a distribution of internal energies, determined by the velocities of the momentum-matched Cl atoms, that spans the theoretically predicted barriers to the CH(3)O + CO and CH(3) + CO(2) product channels. Both electronic ground- and excited-state radicals undergo competitive dissociation to both product channels. The experimental product branching to CH(3) + CO(2) from the ground-state radical, about 70%, is orders of magnitude larger than Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM)-predicted branching, suggesting that previously calculated barriers to the CH(3)OCO --> CH(3) + CO(2) reaction are dramatically in error. Our electronic structure calculations reveal that the cis conformer of the transition state leading to the CH(3) + CO(2) product channel has a much lower barrier than the trans transition state. RRKM calculations using this cis transition state give product branching in agreement with the experimental branching. The data also suggest that our experiments produce a low-lying excited state of the CH(3)OCO radical and give an upper limit to its adiabatic excitation energy of 55 kcal/mol.
16435829	The unimolecular dissociation dynamics of aluminum clusters following collision with either a rare gas atom or a surface is investigated by classical trajectory simulations with model potentials. Two conformers of Al(6) with very distinct shapes, i.e., the spherical O(h) and planar C(2)(h) clusters, are considered in this work. The initial vibrational energy and angular momentum distributions resulting from collision, as well as the energy and angular momentum resolved lifetime distributions, of excited clusters were determined for both collision-induced dissociation (CID) and surface-induced dissociation (SID) processes. The partitioning of excitation energy acquired upon collision was found to depend on the excitation mechanism (CID or SID), as well as on the cluster molecular shape, especially in the case of CID. For both types of processes, the energy and angular momentum resolved excited cluster lifetime distributions were found to decay exponentially, in agreement with statistical theories of chemical reactions, suggesting intrinsic Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) behavior. Moreover, the simulated microcanonical rate constants determined from the cluster lifetime distributions are in good agreement with the predictions of the orbiting transition state model of phase space theory (OTS/PST), which further supports the statistical character of cluster CID and SID. Thus, in the CID and SID of highly fluxional systems such as aluminum clusters, the rate of intramolecular vibrational energy redistribution (IVR) is much faster than the dissociation rate, which validates one of the key assumptions, i.e., post-collision statistical behavior, underlying the models that are routinely used to determine cluster binding energies from experimental CID/SID cross sections.
16436304	We isolated and identified four rice genes, OsBIERF1 to OsBIERF4 (Oryza sativa benzothiadiazole (BTH)-induced ethylene responsive transcriptional factors (ERF)) and analyzed their expressions in rice disease resistance response and under various abiotic stress conditions. The OsBIERF1-4 proteins contain conserved ERF domains, but are categorized into different classes of the previously characterized ERF proteins based on their structural organizations. OsBIERF3 and OsBIERF2 belong to Classes I and II, respectively; while OsBIRERF1 and OsBIERF4 are members of Class IV. OsBIERF3 could bind specifically to the GCC box sequence and was targeted to nucleus when transiently expressed in onion epidermis cells. Expression of OsBIERF1, OsBIERF3 and OsBIERF4 was induced by treatments with BTH and salicylic acid, chemical inducers capable of inducing disease resistance response in rice. In the BTH-treated rice seedlings, expression of OsBIERF1, OsBIERF3 and OsBIERF4 was further induced by infection with Magnaporthe grisea, the rice blast fungus, as compared with those in water-treated seedlings. OsBIERF1 and OsBIERF3 were activated in an incompatible interaction but not in compatible interaction between rice and M. grisea. Moreover, OsBIERF1, OsBIERF3 and OsBIERF4 were also up-regulated by salt, cold, drought and wounding. These results suggest that OsBIERF proteins may participate in different signaling pathways that mediate disease resistance response and stress responses to abiotic factors.
16438192	Lab-Pla is a famous kind of Thai traditional food in northern and northeasthern Thailand. Consumption of uncooked Lab-Pla can lead to trematode infection because cyprinoid fish serve as the 2nd intermediate hosts of trematodes. The preparation of Lab-Pla can be made in different ways, depending on seasonings used in different places. The effect of the seasonings used in Lab-Pla on the survival of Haplorchis taichui metacercariae were, therefore, determined. The methodology was done by the following: 100 g of chopped Siamese mud carp fish (Henicorhynchus siamensis) were used for each experiment of seasonings used for completely mixed Lab-Pla. Mixed materials were blended and digested by 1% pepsin solution to obtain metacercariae and then checked for the movement under a stereomicroscope. The results showed that metacercariae remained active in 5 experimental groups: fermented fish treated, fish sauce treated, chili powder treated, ground roasted rice treated, and complete mixed treated indicated by average as follows: 27, 38.7, 33.3, 42.7 and 21%, respectively. In conclusion, fermented fish and completely mixed methods have more effectiveness in killing metacercariae in Lab-Pla preparation than other seasonings (p < 0.05).
16438315	Acrylamide concentrations in processed foods sold in Japanese markets were analyzed by LC-MS/MS and GC-MS methods. Most potato chips and whole potato-based fried snacks showed acrylamide concentration higher than 1000 microg/kg. The concentrations in non-whole potato based Japanese snacks, including rice crackers and candied sweet potatoes, were less tha. 350 microg/kg. Those in instant precooked noodles were less than 100 microg/kg with only one exception. The effect of storage condition of potato tubers on acrylamide concentration in potato chips after frying was also investigated. Sugar content in the tubers increased during cold storage, and the acrylamide concentration increased accordingly. The concentrations of asparagine and other amino acids, however, did not change during the cold storage. High correlations were observed between the acrylamide content in the chips and glucose and fructose contents in the tubers. This fact indicated that the limiting factor for acrylamide formation in potato chips is reducing sugar, not asparagine content in the tubers. Effects of roasting time and temperature on acrylamide concentration in roasted green tea are also described.
16441756	Grain protein content (GPC) is important for human nutrition and has a strong influence on pasta and bread quality. A quantitative trait locus, derived from a Triticum turgidum ssp. dicoccoides accession (DIC), with an average increase in GPC of 14 g kg(-1) was mapped on chromosome 6BS. Using the wheat-rice colinearity, a high-density map of the wheat region was developed and the quantitative trait locus was mapped as a simple Mendelian locus designated Gpc-B1. A physical map of approx. 250 kb of the Gpc-B1 region was developed using a tetraploid wheat bacterial artificial chromosome library. The constructed physical map included the two Gpc-B1 flanking markers and one potential candidate gene from the colinear rice region completely linked to Gpc-B1. The relationship between physical and genetic distances and the feasibility of isolating genes by positional cloning in wheat are discussed. A high-throughput codominant marker, Xuhw89, was developed. A 4-bp deletion present in the DIC allele was absent in a collection of 117 cultivated tetraploid and hexaploid wheat germplasm, suggesting that this marker will be useful to incorporate the high GPC allele from the DIC accession studied here into commercial wheat varieties.
16441759	Plants often regulate the amount and size of light-harvesting antenna (LHCII) to maximize photosynthesis at low light and avoid photodamage at high light. Gas exchange, 77 K chlorophyll fluorescence, photosystem II (PSII) electron transport as well as LHCII protein were measured in leaves irradiated at different light intensities. After irradiance transition from saturating to limiting one leaf photosynthetic rate in some species such as soybean and rice declined first to a low level, then increased slowly to a stable value (V pattern), while in other species such as wheat and pumpkin it dropped immediately to a stable value (L pattern). Saturating pre-irradiation led to significant declines of both 77 K fluorescence parameter F685/F735 and light-limited PSII electron transport rate in soybean but not in wheat leaves, indicating that some LHCIIs dissociate from PSII in soybean but not in wheat leaves. The L pattern of LHCII-decreased rice mutant and the V pattern of its wild type demonstrate that the V pattern is linked to dissociation/reassociation of some LHCIIs from/to PSII.
16441905	The brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens Stål is one of the major insect pests of rice Oryza sativa L. The host resistance exhibits profound effects on growth, development and propagation of N. lugens. To investigate the molecular response of N. lugens to host resistance, a cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism (cDNA-AFLP) technique was employed to identify the differentially expressed genes in the nymphs feeding on three rice varieties. Of the 2,800 cDNA bands analysed, 54 were up-regulated and seven down-regulated qualitatively in N. lugens when the ingestion sources were changed from susceptible rice plants to resistant ones. Sequence analysis of the differential transcript-derived fragments showed that the genes involved in signalling, stress response, gene expression regulation, detoxification and metabolism were regulated by host resistance. Four of the transcript-derived fragments corresponding to genes encoding for a putative B subunit of phosphatase PP2A, a nemo kinase, a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase and a prolyl endopeptidase were further characterized in detail. Northern blot analysis confirmed that the expression of the four genes was enhanced in N. lugens feeding on resistant rice plants. The roles of these genes in the defensive response of N. lugens to host plant resistance were discussed.
16442107	Coenzyme Q (CoQ), an electron transfer molecule in the respiratory chain and a lipid-soluble antioxidant, is present in almost all organisms. Most cereal crops produce CoQ9, which has nine isoprene units. CoQ10, with 10 isoprene units, is a very popular food supplement. Here, we report the genetic engineering of rice to produce CoQ10 using the gene for decaprenyl diphosphate synthase (DdsA). The production of CoQ9 was almost completely replaced with that of CoQ10, despite the presence of endogenous CoQ9 synthesis. DdsA designed to express at the mitochondria increased accumulation of total CoQ amount in seeds.
16442471	Despite the human capacity to survive and adapt, traumatic experiences can cause alterations in health, attitudes and behaviors, environmental and interpersonal functioning, and spiritual balance such that the memory of an event or a set of events taints all other experiences. The BE SMART (Become Empowered: Symptom Management for Abuse and Recovery from Trauma) group psychoeducation program is a 12-week course designed for both men and women to learn wellness coping principles in recovering from the aftermaths of trauma and abuse. The course is based on the Murphy-Moller Wellness Model [Murphy, M. F., & Moller, M. D. (1996). The Three R's Program: A Wellness Approach to Rehabilitation of Neurobiological Disorders. The International Journal of Psychiatric Nursing Research, 3(1), 308-317] and the Trauma Reframing Therapy [Rice, M. J., & Moller, M. D. (2003). Wellness Outcomes of Trauma Psychoeducation. Podium presentation at the 2003 Meeting of the American Psychiatric Nurses Association. Atlanta, Georgia. October].
16443157	The formation of N-formylkynurenine by dioxygenation of tryptophan was detected in peptides from rice leaf and potato tuber mitochondria. Proteins in matrix and membrane fractions were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and identified using a Q-TOF mass spectrometer. N-Formylkynurenine was detected in 29 peptides representing 17 different proteins. With one exception, the oxidation-sensitive aconitase, all of these proteins were either redox active themselves or subunits in redox-active enzyme complexes. The same site was modified in (i) several adjacent spots containing the P protein of the glycine decarboxylase complex, (ii) two different isoforms of the mitochondrial processing peptidase in complex III, and (iii) the same tryptophan residues in Mn-superoxide dismutase in both rice and potato mitochondria. This indicates that Trp oxidation is a selective process.
16443304	The extent of molecular differentiation between domesticated animals or plants and their wild relatives is postulated to be small. The availability of the complete genome sequences of two subspecies of the Asian rice, Oryza sativa (indica and japonica) and their wild relatives have provided an unprecedented opportunity to study divergence following domestication. We observed significantly more amino acid substitutions during rice domestication than can be expected from a comparison among wild species. This excess is disproportionately larger for the more radical kinds of amino acid changes (e.g. Cys<-->Tyr). We estimate that approximately a quarter of the amino acid differences between rice cultivars are deleterious, not accountable by the relaxation of selective constraints. This excess is negatively correlated with the rate of recombination, suggesting that 'hitchhiking' has occurred. We hypothesize that during domestication artificial selection increased the frequency of many deleterious mutations.
16443696	Lignin content and composition are two important agronomic traits for the utilization of agricultural residues. Rice (Oryza sativa) gold hull and internode phenotype is a classical morphological marker trait that has long been applied to breeding and genetics study. In this study, we have cloned the GOLD HULL AND INTERNODE2 (GH2) gene in rice using a map-based cloning approach. The result shows that the gh2 mutant is a lignin-deficient mutant, and GH2 encodes a cinnamyl-alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD). Consistent with this finding, extracts from roots, internodes, hulls, and panicles of the gh2 plants exhibited drastically reduced CAD activity and undetectable sinapyl alcohol dehydrogenase activity. When expressed in Escherichia coli, purified recombinant GH2 was found to exhibit strong catalytic ability toward coniferaldehyde and sinapaldehyde, while the mutant protein gh2 completely lost the corresponding CAD and sinapyl alcohol dehydrogenase activities. Further phenotypic analysis of the gh2 mutant plants revealed that the p-hydroxyphenyl, guaiacyl, and sinapyl monomers were reduced in almost the same ratio compared to the wild type. Our results suggest GH2 acts as a primarily multifunctional CAD to synthesize coniferyl and sinapyl alcohol precursors in rice lignin biosynthesis.
16443699	Four starch synthase I (SSI)-deficient rice (Oryza sativa) mutant lines were generated using retrotransposon Tos17 insertion. The mutants exhibited different levels of SSI activities and produced significantly lower amounts of SSI protein ranging from 0% to 20% of the wild type. The mutant endosperm amylopectin showed a decrease in chains with degree of polymerization (DP) 8 to 12 and an increase in chains with DP 6 to 7 and DP 16 to 19. The degree of change in amylopectin chain-length distribution was positively correlated with the extent of decrease in SSI activity in the mutants. The structural changes in the amylopectin increased the gelatinization temperature of endosperm starch. Chain-length analysis of amylopectin in the SSI band excised from native-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis/SS activity staining gel showed that SSI preferentially synthesized DP 7 to 11 chains by elongating DP 4 to 7 short chains of glycogen or amylopectin. These results show that SSI distinctly generates DP 8 to 12 chains from short DP 6 to 7 chains emerging from the branch point in the A or B(1) chain of amylopectin. SSI seemingly functions from the very early through the late stage of endosperm development. Yet, the complete absence of SSI, despite being a major SS isozyme in the developing endosperm, had no effect on the size and shape of seeds and starch granules and the crystallinity of endosperm starch, suggesting that other SS enzymes are probably capable of partly compensating SSI function. In summary, this study strongly suggested that amylopectin chains are synthesized by the coordinated actions of SSI, SSIIa, and SSIIIa isoforms.
16444680	A multi-residue method is described for the simultaneous analysis of 109 pesticides with different properties in unpolished rice. The range covers organophosphorus, organochlorine, carbamate, and synthetic pyrethroid pesticides. The pesticides were extracted from the sample using ethyl acetate. Most higher molecular weight components such as lipids in the co-extractives were removed by gel permeation chromatography (GPC) with a Bio-bead SX-3 column. A Florisil column with ethyl acetate/hexane as the eluting solvents was used for further cleanup. The pesticides were finally simultaneously determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) in selective ion monitoring (SIM) mode. The average recoveries for most pesticides (spiked level 0.02, 0.1 and 1 microg/g) ranged from 70% to 110%, the relative standard deviation (RSD) was below 20% in every case, and the limit of detection (LOD) varied from 1 to 20 ng/g.
16446286	Aluminium (Al) stimulates the efflux of citrate from apices of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) roots. This response is delayed at least 3 h when roots are exposed to 50 microm Al, indicating that some inducible processes leading to citrate efflux are involved. The physiological bases responsible for the delayed response were examined here. The effects of several antagonists of anion channels and citrate carriers, and of the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide (CHM) on Al-stimulated citrate efflux and/or citrate content were examined by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) or an enzymatic method. Both anion channel inhibitors and citrate carrier inhibitors can inhibit Al-stimulated citrate efflux, with anthracene-9-carboxylic acid (A-9-C, an anion channel inhibitor) and phenylisothiocyanate (PI, a citrate carrier inhibitor) the most effective inhibitors. A 6 h pulse of 50 microm Al induced a significant increase of citrate content in root apices and release of citrate. However, the increase in citrate content preceded the efflux. Furthermore, the release of citrate stimulated by the pulse treatment was inhibited by both A-9-C and PI, indicating the importance of the citrate carrier on the mitochondrial membrane and the anion channel on the plasma membrane for the Al-stimulated citrate efflux. CHM (20 microm) also significantly inhibited Al-stimulated citrate efflux, confirming that de novo protein synthesis is required for Al-stimulated citrate efflux. These results indicate that the activation of genes possibly encoding citrate transporters plays a critical role in Al-stimulated citrate efflux.
16447420	Closed chamber provide a valuable tool for measuring CO2 exchange fluxes. In general, the change rate of CO2 concentration is assumed to be constant in the short measurement time and a linear regression method is used to estimate the CO2 fluxes. However, due to the physical and physiological effects, the change rate of CO2 is not always constant. A linear regression method and an exponential regression method are compared in this study. Results show that during the growing stages except for the ripening, nonlinear relationship of CO2 concentration versus time was estimated in the sunny daytime. Absolute values of CO2 fluxes calculated by linear regression were lower than that by exponential regression. Whereas, CO2 concentration changed linearly with time in cloudy days or in nighttime. And no significant difference was found between the results calculated with these two methods. Accumulative CO2-C fluxes with exponential and linear regressions were compared with the values of net ecosystem exchange of CO2-C (NEE), which were calculated by net primary production (NPP) minus soil respiration. The values with the exponential regression method were closer to NEE than those with linear regression. Therefore, the linear regression method could result in underestimation of carbon budget of ecosystem. Based on transparent chamber measurement, the exponential regression is more feasible to calculate CO2 fluxes than the linear regression.
16447444	The effects of simulated acid rain (pH 2.5 - 5.0) on the activities of POD and CAT were investigated during germination of rice (O. sativa), wheat (T. aestivum) and rape (B. chinensis var. oleifera) seeds. Compared with the control (CK), the amplitude of the change in the activity of CAT and POD is that rice (28.8%, 31.7%) < wheat (34.7%, 48.3%) < rape (79.3%, 50.0%), respectively. The pH significantly different (p < 0.05) from CK follows the order: rice (3.5) > wheat (4.0) > rape (5.0). All of these revealed that the ability of resisting acid rain stress is that rice is stronger than wheat and rape is the worst. Under the same condition, the amplitude of the change in the activity of CAT is more sensitivity toward acid rain stress than that of POD. The difference in free radicals removed by these 3 species is one of the reasons why the germinating indexes behaved differently.
16450073	Three novel endophytic rhizobial strains (RRE3, RRE5, and RRE6) were isolated from naturally growing surface sterilized rice roots. These isolates had the ability to nodulate common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism and sequencing of 16S rDNA of these isolates revealed that RRE3 and RRE5 are phylogenetically very close to Burkholderia cepacia complex, whereas RRE6 has affinity with Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli. Plant infection test using gusA reporter gene tagged construct of these isolates indicated that bacterial cells can go inside and colonize the rice root interiors. A significant increase in biomass and grain yield was also recorded in greenhouse-grown rice plants inoculated with these isolates.
16450172	A 1.4 Kb cDNA clone encoding a serine-rich protein has been isolated from the cDNA library of salt stressed roots of Porteresia coarctata, and designated as P. coarctata serine-rich-protein (PcSrp) encoding gene. Northern analysis and in situ mRNA hybridization revealed the expression of PcSrp in the salt stressed roots and rhizome of P. coarctata. However, no such expression was seen in the salt stressed leaves and in the unstressed tissues of root, rhizome and leaf, indicating that PcSrp is under the control of a salt-inducible tissue-specific promoter. In yeast, the PcSrp conferred increased NaCl tolerance, implicating its role in salinity tolerance at cellular level. Further, PcSrp was cloned downstream to rice Actin-1 promoter and introduced into finger millet through particle-inflow-gun method. Transgenic plants expressing PcSrp were able to grow to maturity and set seed under 250 mM NaCl stress. The untransformed control plants by contrast failed to survive under similar salt stress. The stressed roots of transgenic plants invariably accumulated higher Na(+) and K(+) ion contents compared to roots of untransformed plants; whereas, shoots of transgenics accumulated lower levels of both the ions than that of untransformed plants under identical stress, clearly suggesting the involvement of PcSrp in ion homeostasis contributing to salt tolerance.
16450590	Grain size and shape are important factors affecting grain quality and yield in rice. Mapping, tagging and identification of their related genes can lead us to understand their expression pattern and mechanism network, which is to their control. In this study we mapped a grain length controlling gene named Lk-4(t) with SSR and CAPs markers by screening 800 recessive plants in a BC2F2 population derived from a cross of Shuhui527xXiaoli and backcrossed with Xiaoli as the donor parent. The distribution of grain shape parameters and thousand grain weight in F2 and BC2F2 population showed that backcross can diminish most unnecessary variations to identify the target gene more clearly. There were only two grain length phenotypes found among the 3 209 BC2F2 plants, long and short, indicating it is a qualitative trait. The frequency distribution for the grain length showed a typical segregation ratio of 3:1, suggesting that only one allele was responsible for the variation. By screening the recessive long grain plants with three CAPs markers, P1-EcoRV, P2-Sac I and P3-Mbo I, we tagged the locus on the arm of chromosome 3 near the centromere. Lk-4(t) was located between P1- EcoRV and P2-Sac I, with genetic distance of 0.90 cM and 0.50 cM from the two markers respectively. Mapping of the gene is a foundation for its final identification and function analysis.
16452146	A quantitative trait locus (QTL), dth1.1, was associated with transgressive variation for days to heading in an advanced backcross population derived from the Oryza sativa variety Jefferson and an accession of the wild rice relative Oryza rufipogon. A series of near-isogenic lines (NILs) containing different O. rufipogon introgressions across the target region were constructed to dissect dth1.1 using substitution mapping. In contrast to the late-flowering O. rufipogon parent, O. rufipogon alleles in the substitution lines caused early flowering under both short- and long-day lengths and provided evidence for at least two distinct sub-QTL: dth1.1a and dth1.1b. Potential candidate genes underlying these sub-QTL include genes with sequence similarity to Arabidopsis GI, FT, SOC1, and EMF1, and Pharbitis nil PNZIP. Evidence from families with nontarget O. rufipogon introgressions in combination with dth1.1 alleles also detected an early flowering QTL on chromosome 4 and a late-flowering QTL on chromosome 6 and provided evidence for additional sub-QTL in the dth1.1 region. The availability of a series of near-isogenic lines with alleles introgressed from a wild relative of rice provides an opportunity to better understand the molecular basis of transgressive variation in a quantitative trait.
16452316	Sialic acids are widely distributed among living creatures, from bacteria to mammals, but it has been commonly accepted that they do not exist in plants. However, with the progress of genome analyses, putative gene homologs of animal sialyltransferases have been detected in the genome of some plants. In this study, we cloned three genes from Oryza sativa (Japanese rice) that encode sialyltransferase-like proteins, designated OsSTLP1, 2, and 3, and analyzed the enzymatic activity of the proteins. OsSTLP1, 2, and 3 consist of 393, 396, and 384 amino acids, respectively, and each contains sequences similar to the sialyl motifs that are highly conserved among animal sialyltransferases. The recombinant soluble forms of OsSTLPs produced by COS-7 cells were analyzed for sialyltransferase-like activity. OsSTLP1 exhibited such activity toward the oligosaccharide Galbeta1,4GlcNAc and such glycoproteins as asialofetuin, alpha1-acid glycoprotein, and asialo-alpha1-acid glycoprotein; OsSTLP3 exhibited similar activity toward asialofetuin; and OsSTLP2 exhibited no sialyltransferase-like activity. The sialic acid transferred by OsSTLP1 or 3 was linked to galactose of Galbeta1,4GlcNAc through alpha2,6-linkage. This is the first report of plant proteins having sialyltransferase-like activity.
16452510
16453132	The GS3 locus located in the pericentromeric region of rice chromosome 3 has been frequently identified as a major QTL for both grain weight (a yield trait) and grain length (a quality trait) in the literature. Near isogenic lines of GS3 were developed by successive crossing and backcrossing Minghui 63 (large grain) with Chuan 7 (small grain), using Minghui 63 as the recurrent parent. Analysis of a random subpopulation of 201 individuals from the BC3F2 progeny confirmed that the GS3 locus explained 80-90% of the variation for grain weight and length in this population. In addition, this locus was resolved as a minor QTL for grain width and thickness. Using 1,384 individuals with recessive phenotype (large grain) from a total of 5,740 BC3F2 plants and 11 molecular markers based on sequence information, GS3 was mapped to a DNA fragment approximately 7.9 kb in length. A full-length cDNA corresponding to the target region was identified, which provided complete sequence information for the GS3 candidate. This gene consists of five exons and encodes 232 amino acids with a putative PEBP-like domain, a transmembrane region, a putative TNFR/NGFR family cysteine-rich domain and a VWFC module. Comparative sequencing analysis identified a nonsense mutation, shared among all the large-grain varieties tested in comparison with the small grain varieties, in the second exon of the putative GS3 gene. This mutation causes a 178-aa truncation in the C-terminus of the predicted protein, suggesting that GS3 may function as a negative regulator for grain size. Cloning of such a gene provided the opportunity for fully characterizing the regulatory mechanism and related processes during grain development.
16453545	Embryos of developing rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Koshihikari) caryopses which actively synthesize lectin were labelled with [S]cysteine for different times and newly synthesized rice lectin was isolated by affinity chromatography. Gel filtration of embryo extracts on Sepharose-4B indicated that a large portion of the labelled lectin was associated with the particulate fraction. Experiments with detergent indicated that this lectin was sequestered within organelles. When extracts of pulse-labelled embryos were fractionated on isopycnic sucrose gradients, this detergent-released lectin banded in the same density-region as the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) marker enzyme NADH-cytochrome c reductase. Both radioactivity in rice lectin and the enzyme activity shifted towards a higher density in the presence of 2 mM Mg acetate, indicating that the labelled lectin was associated with the rough ER. The ER-bound lectin could be chased from this organelle when tissue was incubated in unlabelled cysteine following a 1 h pulse of labelled cysteine. Radioactivity chased out of the ER with a half-life of 4 h and accumulated in the soluble fraction. In the ER the lectin was present as a polypeptide with mol. wt. 23 000, while in the soluble fraction it occurred as polypeptides with mol. wt. 18 000, 10 000 and 8000. The rice lectin in the ER is capable of binding carbohydrates since it binds readily to the affinity gels. It is associated into dimers with an approximate mol. wt. of 46 000. The results show that newly synthesized rice lectin is transiently sequestered within the ER before further transport and processing take place.
16454475	Four new compounds, stigmastanol-3beta-p-glyceroxydihydrocoumaroate (1), stigmastanol-3beta-p-butanoxydihydrocoumaroate (2), lanast-7,9(11)-dien-3alpha,15alpha-diol-3alpha-D-glucofuranoside (3) and 1-phenyl-2-hydroxy-3,7-dimethyl-11-aldehydic-tetradecane-2-beta-D-glucopyranoside (4), along with several known compounds were isolated from the methanol extract of hulls of Oryza sativa. The new structures were established by one- and two-dimensional NMR and in combination with IR, EI/MS, FAB/MS and HR-FAB/ MS. Compound (3) strongly inhibited the growth of duckweed (Lemna paucicostata Hegelm 381), whilst compounds (2) and (4) exhibited weak inhibition.
16455220	Two obligate anaerobic bacterial strains (5-3-Z(T) and Y4-1) were isolated from river sediment and rice field mud, respectively. They degraded straight-chain fatty acids with 4-8 carbon atoms in syntrophic association with methanogens, however, neither tested branch-chain fatty acids nor could benzoate be degraded. The strains formed spores when cocultured with methanogens on butyrate, or when grew on butyrate plus dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) in pure culture. The cells were slightly curved rods with Gram-negative cell wall structure, and contained small amount of poly beta-hydroxyalkanoate. The strains could not degrade butyrate alone, nor could use fumarate, sulfate, thiosulfate, sulfur or nitrate as electron acceptors except DMSO for butyrate degradation. The generation time of strain 5-3-Z(T) was about 12h when growing on crotonate at 37 degrees C. The growth of the new strains occurred in the range of pH 5.5-8.4, and of temperature 20-48 degrees C, and at NaCl concentration of 0-700 mM. The G+C content of the genomic DNA of strain 5-3-Z(T) was 40.6mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene similarity showed the two strains to be a member of species Syntrophomonas erecta (98.4-98.9% sequence similarity), however they differed from the existing strains in both phenotypic and genetic characteristics. Therefore, a new subspecies of S. erecta, S. erecta subsp. sporosyntropha was proposed. The type strain was 5-3-Z(T) (=CGMCC1.5032(T)=JCM13344(T)).
16455358	Based on sequence similarity search and domain detection, nine ACT domain repeat protein-coding genes (the "ACR" genes) in rice were identified, which were mainly distributed on the chromosomes 2, 3, 4, and 8. An InterPro database search indicated that four copies of the ACT domain linearly occupied the entire polypeptide. The first three ACT domains were linked by two different sequences. However, the fourth ACT domain was extremely close to ACT3. Gene structure comparisons showed large differences in exon numbers, from three to eight, among members of the rice ACR gene family. In addition, it appeared that gene duplication might be operative when the compositions of exons and introns were analyzed. Phylogenetic analysis divided the ACR gene family into five distinct groups, and this division was generally according to the expression patterns of the ACR genes. The Arabidopsis and rice ACR proteins were clustered across together, suggesting that these ACR genes might originate from an ancient common ancestor. Notably, the identification of orthologues and paralogues would be useful for rice gene functional annotation.
16456656	The wheat Tsn1 gene confers sensitivity to the host-selective toxin Ptr ToxA produced by the tan spot fungus (Pyrenophora tritici-repentis). The long-term goal of this research is to isolate Tsn1 using a positional cloning approach. Here, we evaluated 54 ESTs (expressed sequence tags) physically mapped to deletion bin 5BL 0.75-0.76, which is a gene-rich region containing Tsn1. Twenty-three EST loci were mapped as either PCR-based single-stranded conformational polymorphism or RFLP markers in a low-resolution wheat population. The genetic map corresponding to the 5BL 0.75-0.76 deletion bin spans 18.5 cM and contains 37 markers for a density of 2 markers/cM. The EST-based genetic map will be useful for tagging other genes, establishing colinearity with rice, and anchoring sequence ready BAC contigs of the 5BL 0.75-0.76 deletion bin. High-resolution mapping showed that EST-derived markers together with previously developed AFLP-derived markers delineated Tsn1 to a 0.8 cM interval. Flanking markers were used to screen the Langdon durum BAC library and contigs of 205 and 228 kb flanking Tsn1 were assembled, sequenced, and anchored to the genetic map. Recombination frequency averaged 760 kb/cM across the 228 kb contig, but no recombination was observed across the 205 kb contig resulting in an expected recombination frequency of more than 10 Mb/cM. Therefore, chromosome walking within the Tsn1 region may be difficult. However, the sequenced BACs allowed the identification of one microsatellite in each contig for which markers were developed and shown to be highly suitable for marker-assisted selection of Tsn1.
16457592	Proteomics has become an essential methodology for large-scale analysis of proteins in various fields of plant biology. We compared two proteomics techniques, two-dimensional liquid chromatography (2D-LC) and fluorescence two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE), for their ability to identify proteins regulated by gibberellin (GA) in rice. Two-week-old rice seedlings were treated with or without 5 microM GA3 for 48 h and proteins extracted from the basal region of the leaf sheath. After separation of the proteins by the two techniques, the amino acid sequences of GA3-responsive proteins were analyzed using a protein sequencer and mass spectrometry. 2D-LC and 2D-DIGE were able to resolve 1248 protein fractions and 1500 proteins, respectively. Out of these, 2D-LC identified 9 proteins that were up-regulated and 9 that were down-regulated by GA treatment; 2D-DIGE identified 4 up-regulated and 4 down-regulated proteins. The two techniques detected overlapping sets of proteins. For example, cytosolic glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and photosystem II oxygen-evolving complex protein were identified as GA3-regulated proteins by both methods. In addition, these two methods uncovered GA3-regulated unknown proteins which had not been reported previously, and novel proteins which are not detected in 2D-PAGE followed by Coomassie brilliant blue staining. These results suggest that these two methods are among some of the very useful tools for detecting proteins that may function in various physiological and developmental processes in plants.
16457606	Drought is one of the most severe limitations on the productivity of rainfed lowland and upland rice. To investigate the initial response of rice to drought stress, changes in protein expression were analyzed using a proteomic approach. Two-week-old rice seedlings were exposed to drought conditions from 2 to 6 days, and proteins were extracted from leaf sheaths, separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and stained with Coomassie brilliant blue. After drought stress for 2 to 6 days, 10 proteins increased in abundance and the level of 2 proteins decreased. The functional categories of these proteins were identified as defense, energy, metabolism, cell structure, and signal transduction. In addition to drought stress, accumulations of protein were analyzed under several different stress conditions. The levels of an actin depolymerizing factor, a light harvesting complex chain II, a superoxidase dismutase and a salt-induced protein were changed by drought and osmotic stresses, but not cold or salt stresses, or abscisic acid treatment. The effect of drought stress on protein in the leaf sheaths of drought-tolerant rice cultivar was also analyzed. The light harvesting complex chain II and the actin depolymerizing factor were present at high levels in a drought-tolerant rice cultivar before stress application. With drought stress, actin depolymerizing factor was expressed in leaf blades, leaf sheaths, and roots. These results suggest that actin depolymerizing factor is one of the target proteins induced by drought stress.
16458040	Medicago truncatula will be among the first plant species to benefit from the completion of a whole-genome sequencing project. For each of these species, Arabidopsis, rice and now poplar and Medicago, annotation, the process of identifying gene structures and defining their functions, is essential for the research community to benefit from the sequence data generated. Annotation of the Arabidopsis genome involved gene-by-gene curation of the entire genome, but the larger genomes of rice, Medicago and other species necessitate the automation of the annotation process. Profiting from the experience gained from previous whole-genome efforts, a uniform set of Medicago gene annotations has been generated by coordinated international effort and, along with other views of the genome data, has been provided to the research community at several websites.
16458573	Positional cloning has been and remains a powerful method for gene identification in Arabidopsis. With the completion of the rice genome sequence, positional cloning in rice also took off, including the cloning of several quantitative trait loci. Positional cloning in cereals such as maize whose genomes are much larger than that of rice was considered near impossible because of the vast amounts of repetitive DNA. However, conservation of synteny across the cereal genomes, in combination with new maize resources, has now made positional cloning in maize feasible. In fact, a chromosomal walk is usually much faster than the more traditional method of gene isolation in maize by transposon tagging.
16459002	Expression of Cry1Ab protein in Bt transgenic rice (KMD) and its residue in the rhizosphere soil during the whole growth in field, as well as degradation of the protein from KMD straw in five soils under laboratory incubation were studied. The residue of Cry1Ab protein in KMD rhizosphere soil was undetectable (below the limit of 0.5 ng/g air-dried soil). The Cry1Ab protein contents in the shoot and root of KMD were 3.23-8.22 and 0.68-0.89 microg/g (fresh weight), respectively. The half-lives of the Cry1Ab protein in the soils amended with KMD straw (4%, w/w) ranged from 11.5 to 34.3d. The residence time of the protein varied significantly in a Fluvio-marine yellow loamy soil amended with KMD straw at the rate of 3, 4 and 7%, with half-lives of 9.9, 13.8 and 18d, respectively. In addition, an extraction method for Cry1Ab protein in soil was developed, with extraction efficiencies of 46.4-82.3%.
16459129	The genomes of flowering plants vary in size from about 0.1 to over 100 gigabase pairs (Gbp), mostly because of polyploidy and variation in the abundance of repetitive elements in intergenic regions. High-quality sequences of the relatively small genomes of Arabidopsis (0.14 Gbp) and rice (0.4 Gbp) have now been largely completed. The sequencing of plant genomes that have a more representative size (the mean for flowering plant genomes is 5.6 Gbp) has been seen as a daunting task, partly because of their size and partly because of the numerous highly conserved repeats. Nevertheless, creative strategies and powerful new tools have been generated recently in the plant genetics community, so that sequencing large plant genomes is now a realistic possibility. Maize (2.4-2.7 Gbp) will be the first gigabase-size plant genome to be sequenced using these novel approaches. Pilot studies on maize indicate that the new gene-enrichment, gene-finishing and gene-orientation technologies are efficient, robust and comprehensive. These strategies will succeed in sequencing the gene-space of large genome plants, and in locating all of these genes and adjacent sequences on the genetic and physical maps.
16459555	Increasing soil pH retarded growth, tillers and bio-mass production of rice cultivar Sarjoo-52. Application of 10 to 15 kgZn ha(-1) increased the bio-mass by 33 to 41% at pH 8.5 and 27 to 32% at pH 10.3. Panicle length, rachis branches, total spikelets, filled grains, grain size were all adversely affected to the tune of 19, 23, 40, 74 and 21%, respectively by higher soil alkalinity at pH 10.3. Alkalinity resulted in 19, 31 and 65% spikelet sterility which reduced to 3, 21 and 55% at pH 8.5, 9.5 and 10.3, respectively by Zn applied @ 15 kg ha(-1). Grain yield reduced to 50% at pH 10.3 but Zn in general, raised the yield levels by 1.6 to 2.3, times. The chlorophyll decreased by 36 to 50% whereas carbonic anhydrase activities decreased only by 13% due to increase in soil sodicity and alkalinity. Further, increase in pH caused significant decrease in Zn, Ca, Mg, P and K concentrations but phenomenal rise in Na content Zinc application, apart from increasing tissue Zn content, elevated Ca :Na and K :Na ratio resulting in improved growth and yield of rice under soil sodicity and alkalinity.
16459660	Transgenic plant is an attractive bioreactor to produce recombinant protein, such as safe and economic vaccine. In present study, a plant expression binary vector pUNDV, containing the 1.7 kb fusion protein gene of Newcastle Disease Virus (NDV F) under the control of maize ubiquitin (Ubi) promoter and nos terminator was constructed, in which, the Hygromycin phosphotransferase (HPT) gene was used as the selectable marker. The expression cassette was introduced into a japonica rice variety by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, and 6 independent transgenic rice lines were regenerated and verified by hygromycin resistance selection. The integration of target gene in transgenic plants was confirmed by PCR analysis. The results from ELISA and Western blot analyses revealed that NDV F could be expressed in the leaf of several transgenic plants. The total salt soluble proteins were extracted from leaf of transgenic plant F5, which contained the highest expressing level of NDV F protein, and used in immunization of BALB/c mice. The specific antibodies could be elicited in mice immunized with NDV F protein expressed in transgenic rice.
16460162	The reaction of the simplest cyanopolyyne, cyanoacetylene [HCCCN(X (1)Sigma(+))], with ground-state atomic carbon C((3)P) is investigated theoretically to explore the probable routes for the depletion of the famed interstellar molecule HCCCN, and the formation of carbon-nitrogen-bearing species in extraterrestrial environments particularly of ultralow temperature. Six collision complexes (c1-c6) without entrance barrier as a result of the carbon atom addition to the pi systems of HCCCN are located. The optimized geometries and harmonic frequencies of the intermediates, transition states, and products along the isomerization and dissociation pathways of each collision complex are obtained by utilizing the unrestricted B3YLP6-311G(d,p) level of theory, and the corresponding CCSD(T)/cc-pVTZ energies are calculated. Subsequently, with the facilitation of Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) and variational RRKM rate constants at collision energy of 0-10 kcal/mol, the most probable paths for the titled reaction are determined, and the product yields are estimated. Five collision complexes (c1-c3, c5, and c6) are predicted to give the same products, a chained CCCCN (p2)+H, via the linear and most stable intermediate, HCCCCN (i2), while collision complex c4 is likely to dissociate back to C+HCCCN. The study suggests that this class of reaction is an important route to the destruction of cyanoacetylene and cyanopolyynes in general, and to the synthesis of linear carbon-chained nitriles at the temperature as low as 10 K to be incorporated in future chemical models of interstellar clouds.
16460166	We present ab initio calculations of the reaction of ground-state atomic oxygen [O((3)P)] with a propargyl (C(3)H(3)) radical based on the application of the density-functional method and the complete basis-set model. It has been predicted that the barrierless addition of O((3)P) to C(3)H(3) on the lowest doublet potential-energy surface produces several energy-rich intermediates, which undergo subsequent isomerization and decomposition steps to generate various exothermic reaction products: C(2)H(3)+CO, C(3)H(2)O+H, C(3)H(2)+OH, C(2)H(2)+CHO, C(2)H(2)O+CH, C(2)HO+CH(2), and CH(2)O+C(2)H. The respective reaction pathways are examined extensively with the aid of statistical Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations, suggesting that the primary reaction channel is the formation of propynal (CHCCHO)+H. For the minor C(3)H(2)+OH channel, which has been reported in recent gas-phase crossed-beam experiments [H. Lee et al., J. Chem. Phys. 119, 9337 (2003); 120, 2215 (2004)], a comparison on the basis of prior statistical calculations is made with the nascent rotational state distributions of the OH products to elucidate the mechanistic and dynamic characteristics at the molecular level.
16461384	When plants interact with certain pathogens, they protect themselves by generating various defense responses. These defense responses are induced by molecules called elicitors. Since long ago, composts fermented by animal feces have been used as a fertilizer in plant cultivation, and recently, have been known to provide suppression of plant disease. Therefore, we hypothesized that the compounds from animal feces may function as elicitors of plant defense responses. As a result of examination of our hypothesis, an elicitor of rice defense responses was isolated from human feces, and its structure was identified as cholic acid (CA), a primary bile acid in animals. Treatment of rice (Oryza sativa) leaves with CA induced the accumulation of antimicrobial compounds (phytoalexins), hypersensitive cell death, pathogenesis-related (PR) protein synthesis, and increased resistance to subsequent infection by virulent pathogens. CA induced these defense responses more rapidly than did fungal cerebroside, a sphingolipid elicitor isolated from the rice pathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea. Furthermore, fungal cerebroside induced both types of rice phytoalexins, phytocassanes and momilactones, whereas CA mainly induced phytocassanes, but not momilactones. In the structure-activity relationship analysis, the hydroxyl groups at C-7 and C-12, and the carboxyl group at C-24 of CA contributed to the elicitor activity. These results indicate that CA is specifically recognized by rice and is a different type of elicitor from fungal cerebroside. This report demonstrated that bile acid induced defense responses in plants.
16461585	In higher plants, leaves initiate in constant spatial and temporal patterns. Although the pattern of leaf initiation is a key element of plant shoot architecture, little is known about how the time interval between initiation events, termed plastochron, is regulated. Here, we present a detailed analysis of plastochron2 (pla2), a rice (Oryza sativa) mutant that exhibits shortened plastochron and precocious maturation of leaves during the vegetative phase and ectopic shoot formation during the reproductive phase. The corresponding PLA2 gene is revealed to be an orthologue of terminal ear1, a maize (Zea mays) gene that encodes a MEI2-like RNA binding protein. PLA2 is expressed predominantly in young leaf primordia. We show that PLA2 normally acts to retard the rate of leaf maturation but does so independently of PLA1, which encodes a member of the P450 family. Based on these analyses, we propose a model in which plastochron is determined by signals from immature leaves that act non-cell-autonomously in the shoot apical meristem to inhibit the initiation of new leaves.
16461686	The impact of environmental perturbation (e.g., nitrogenous fertilizers) on the dynamics of methane fluxes from soils and wetland systems is poorly understood. Results of fertilizer studies are often contradictory, even within similar ecosystems. In the present study the hypothesis of whether these contradictory results may be explained by the composition of the methane-consuming microbial community and hence whether methanotrophic diversity affects methane fluxes was investigated. To this end, rice field and forest soils were incubated in microcosms and supplemented with different nitrogenous fertilizers and methane concentrations. By labeling the methane with 13C, diversity and function could be coupled by analyses of phospholipid-derived fatty acids (PLFA) extracted from the soils at different time points during incubation. In both rice field and forest soils, the activity as well as the growth rate of methane-consuming bacteria was affected differentially. For type I methanotrophs, fertilizer application stimulated the consumption of methane and the subsequent growth, while type II methanotrophs were generally inhibited. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses of the pmoA gene supported the PLFA results. Multivariate analyses of stable-isotope-probing PLFA profiles indicated that in forest and rice field soils, Methylocystis (type II) species were affected by fertilization. The type I methanotrophs active in forest soils (Methylomicrobium/Methylosarcina related) differed from the active species in rice field soils (Methylobacter/Methylomonas related). Our results provide a case example showing that microbial community structure indeed matters, especially when assessing and predicting the impact of environmental change on biodiversity loss and ecosystem functioning.
16461721	Gibberella zeae (anamorph: Fusarium graminearum) is an important pathogen of maize, wheat, and rice. Colonies of G. zeae produce yellow-to-tan mycelia with the white-to-carmine red margins. In this study, we focused on nine putative open reading frames (ORFs) closely linked to PKS12 and GIP1, which are required for aurofusarin biosynthesis in G. zeae. Among them is an ORF designated GIP2 (for Gibberella zeae pigment gene 2), which encodes a putative protein of 398 amino acids that carries a Zn(II)2Cys6 binuclear cluster DNA-binding domain commonly found in transcription factors of yeasts and filamentous fungi. Targeted gene deletion and complementation analyses confirmed that GIP2 is required for aurofusarin biosynthesis. Expression of GIP2 in carrot medium correlated with aurofusarin production by G. zeae and was restricted to vegetative mycelia. Inactivation of the 10 contiguous genes in the DeltaGIP2 strain delineates an aurofusarin biosynthetic gene cluster. Overexpression of GIP2 in both the DeltaGIP2 and the wild-type strains increases aurofusarin production and reduces mycelial growth. Thus, GIP2 is a putative positive regulator of the aurofusarin biosynthetic gene cluster, and aurofusarin production is negatively correlated with vegetative growth by G. zeae.
16463049	Oryza officinalis (CC, 2n = 24) and Oryza rhizomatis (CC, 2n = 24) belong to the Oryza genus, which contains more than 20 identified wild rice species. Although much has been known about the molecular composition and organization of centromeres in Oryza sativa, relatively little is known of its wild relatives. In the present study, we isolated and characterized a 126-bp centromeric satellite (CentO-C) from three bacterial artificial chromosomes of O. officinalis. In addition to CentO-C, low abundance of CentO satellites is also present in O. officinalis. In order to determine the chromosomal locations and distributions of CentO-C (126-bp), CentO (155 bp) and TrsC (366 bp) satellite within O. officinalis, fluorescence in situ hybridization examination was done on pachytene or metaphase I chromosomes. We found that only ten centromeres (excluding centromere 7 and 2) contain CentO-C arrays in O. officinalis, while centromere 7 comprises CentO satellites, and centromere 2 is devoid of any detectable satellites. For TrsC satellites, it was detected at multiple subtelomeric regions in O. officinalis, however, in O. rhizomatis, TrsC sequences were detected both in the four centromeric regions (CEN 3, 4, 10, 11) and the multiple subtelomeric regions. Therefore, these data reveal the evolutionary diversification pattern of centromere DNA within/or between close related species, and could provide an insight into the dynamic evolutionary processes of rice centromere.
16463100	Arabidopsis is currently the reference genome for higher plants. A new, more detailed statistical analysis of Arabidopsis gene structure is presented including intron and exon lengths, intergenic distances, features of promoters, and variant 5'-ends of mRNAs transcribed from the same transcription unit. We also provide a statistical characterization of Arabidopsis transcripts in terms of their size, UTR lengths, 3'-end cleavage sites, splicing variants, and coding potential. These analyses were facilitated by scrutiny of our collection of sequenced full-length cDNAs and much larger collection of 5'-ESTs, together with another set of full-length cDNAs from Salk/Stanford/Plant Gene Expression Center/RIKEN. Examples of alternative splicing are observed for transcripts from 7% of the genes and many of these genes display multiple spliced isoforms. Most splicing variants lie in non-coding regions of the transcripts. Non-canonical splice sites constitute less than 1% of all splice sites. Genes with fewer than four introns display reduced average mRNA levels. Putative alternative transcription start sites were observed in 30% of highly expressed genes and in more than 50% of the genes with low expression. Transcription start sites correlate remarkably well with a CG skew peak in the DNA sequences. The intergenic distances vary considerably, those where genes are transcribed towards one another being significantly shorter. New transcripts, missing in the current TIGR genome annotation and ESTs that are non-coding, including those antisense to known genes, are derived and cataloged in the Supplementary Material. They identify 148 new loci in the Arabidopsis genome. The conclusions drawn provide a better understanding of the Arabidopsis genome and how the gene transcripts are processed. The results also allow better predictions to be made for, as yet, poorly defined genes and provide a reference for comparisons with other plant genomes whose complete sequences are currently being determined. Some comparisons with rice are included in this paper.
16463101	Upper internode elongation in rice is an important agronomic trait. Well-known mutants with an elongated uppermost internode (eui) are important germplasms for developing unsheathed-panicle male-sterile lines in hybrid rice breeding. We finely mapped the eui1 gene and identified its candidate gene using in silico analysis based on previous research work and rice genomic sequence data. The rice eui1 gene was mapped to two overlapping BAC clones, OSJNBa0095J22 and OSJNBb0099O15, between the markers AC40 and AC46, that were 0.64 cM apart and spanned approximately 152 kb. A simple sequence repeat (SSR) marker AC41 that cosegregated with eui1 was located in an intron of a putative cytochrome P450-related gene. In silico analysis suggested that this encoded the cytochrome CYP714D1. Allelic sequencing confirmed that EUI1 corresponded to this P450 gene. A gamma ray-induced eui1 mutant carried a deletion in exon II of the EUI1 gene, and resulted in a frame-shift deletion that produced a truncated polypeptide. We conclude that the EUI1 gene controlling the upper internode elongation in rice is 9,804 bp long, and comprises two exons and one intron. The length of the cDNA is 1,931 bp containing a 1,734 bp ORF, a 110 bp 5'-UTR and a 87 bp 3'-UTR. The ORF encodes an unknown 577 amino acid functional protein, that appears to be a member of the cytochrome P450 family.
16463103	MYB proteins are a superfamily of transcription factors that play regulatory roles in developmental processes and defense responses in plants. We identified 198 genes in the MYB superfamily from an analysis of the complete Arabidopsis genome sequence, among them, 126 are R2R3-MYB, 5 are R1R2R3-MYB, 64 are MYB-related, and 3 atypical MYB genes. Here we report the expression profiles of 163 genes in the Arabidopsis MYB superfamily whose full-length open reading frames have been isolated. This analysis indicated that the expression for most of the Arabidopsis MYB genes were responsive to one or multiple types of hormone and stress treatments. A phylogenetic comparison of the members of this superfamily in Arabidopsis and rice suggested that the Arabidopsis MYB superfamily underwent a rapid expansion after its divergence from monocots but before its divergence from other dicots. It is likely that the MYB-related family was more ancient than the R2R3-MYB gene family, or had evolved more rapidly. Therefore, the MYB gene superfamily represents an excellent system for investigating the evolution of large and complex gene families in higher plants. Our comprehensive analysis of this largest transcription factor superfamily of Arabidopsis and rice may help elucidate the possible biological roles of the MYB genes in various aspects of flowering plants.
16463105	A dwarf mutant glu was identified from screening of T-DNA tagged rice population. Genetic analysis of the T1 generation of glu revealed that a segregation ratio of wild-type:dwarf phenotype was 3:1, suggesting that the mutated phenotype was controlled by a single recessive nuclear locus. The mutated gene OsGLU1, identified by Tail-PCR, encodes a putative membrane-bound endo-1,4-beta-D-glucanase, which is highly conserved between mono- and dicotyledonous plants. Mutation of OsGLU1 resulted in a reduction in cell elongation, and a decrease in cellulose content but an increase in pectin content, suggesting that OsGLU1 affects the internode elongation and cell wall components of rice plants. Transgenic glu mutants harboring the OsGLU1 gene complemented the mutation and displayed the wild-type phenotype. In addition, OsGLU1 RNAi plants showed similar phenotype as the glu mutant has. These results indicate that OsGLU1 plays important roles in plant cell growth. Gibberellins and brassinosteroids induced OsGLU1 expression. In rice genome, endo-1,4-beta-D-glucanases form a multiple gene family with 15 members, and each may have a distinct expression pattern in different organs. These results indicate that endo-1,4-beta-D-glucanases may play diverse roles in growth and developmental process of rice plants.
16463157	Apomixis in plants is a form of clonal reproduction through seeds. A BAC clone linked to apomictic reproduction in Paspalum simplex was used to locate the apomixis locus on meiotic chromosome preparations. Fluorescent in situ hybridisation revealed the existence of a single locus embedded in a heterochromatin-poor region not adjacent to the centromere. We report here for the first time information regarding the sequencing of a large DNA clone from the apomixis locus. The presence of two genes whose rice homologs were mapped on the telomeric part of the long arm of rice chromosome 12 confirmed the strong synteny between the apomixis locus of P. simplex with the related area of the rice genome at the map level. Comparative analysis of this region with rice as representative of a sexual species revealed large-scale rearrangements due to transposable elements and small-scale rearrangements due to deletions and single point mutations. Both types of rearrangements induced the loss of coding capacity of large portions of the "apomictic" genes compared to their rice homologs. Our results are discussed in relation to the use of rice genome data for positional cloning of apomixis genes and to the possible role of rearranged supernumerary genes in the apomictic process of P. simplex.
16463319	The aim of this research was to identify nifH and nifHDKYE ' genes in twenty strains of N2-fixing heterotrophic bacteria isolated from rice fields in the Yangtze River Plain. Southern hybridization of the total DNA from each strain was performed with the Klebsiella pneumoniae nifHDKYE ' gene probe (6.2 kb Eco RI fragment from pSA30) and the Azospirillum brasilense nifH gene probe (0.6 kb Eco RI-Hin dIII fragment from pHU8). We found that Eco RI fragments of total DNA from Aeromonas hydrophila HY2, Bacillus azotoformans FD, Bacillus licheniformis NCH1, NCH5, WH4, Bacillus brevis NC2, Bacillus pumilus NC12, Bacillus cereus NCH2, Citrobacter freundii HY5, HY9, Derxia gummosa HZ5, Pseudomonas mendocina HZ1 and Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes WH3 were positively hybridized with both of the probes. Agrobacterium radiobacter HY17, Corynebacterium sp. HY12, YZ and Pseudomonas sp. HY11 had Eco RI fragments hybridized with the K. pneumoniae nifHDKYE ' gene probe. An Eco RI fragment of total DNA from Bacillus megaterium YY4 was positively hybridized to the A. brasilense nifH gene probe. No hybridization sign was found in the total DNA fragments from Alcaligenes cupidus YY6 and Corynebacterium sp. NC11 hybridized with either of the gene probes. The data provide the number and size of EcoRI fragments of the total DNA hybridized with the nif gene probes for these strains of rarely studied species, suggesting additional evidence for N2 fixing and nif gene diversity of N2-fixing bacteria in rice fields along the Yangtze River Plain.
1646373	A cytochrome c gene, OsCc-1, from rice (Oryza sativa) has been isolated and analyzed. The OsCc-1 gene encodes a cytochrome c protein that is typical of higher-plant cytochrome c proteins. OsCc-1 consists of three exons separated by two introns that are 817 and 747 bp in length, respectively. From genomic DNA hybridization analysis, OsCc-1 appears to be one of possibly two cytochrome c genes in several Asian, American, and Indian rice species and varieties surveyed. A single, unique cytochrome c gene appears to be present in one African cultivated rice species. We performed comparative molecular evolutionary analyses of OsCc-1 and other cytochrome c genes. We calculated a unit evolutionary period of 19.4 Myr for cytochrome c DNA sequences, which agrees closely with previous estimates based on protein sequence comparisons.
16464476	The effect of pre-germinated brown rice (PGBR) on cholesterol metabolism was studied in Donryu rats subcutaneously implanted with the ascites hepatoma cell line AH109A and compared with that of white rice (WR). The effect of brown rice (BR), the source of PGBR, was also studied. Hepatoma-bearing rats fed a WR diet exhibited hypercholesterolemia compared with normal rats fed the same diet. Feeding hepatoma-bearing rats a PGBR or BR diet suppressed hepatoma-induced hypercholesterolemia, and enhanced fecal bile acid excretion and the activity of cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme of bile acid biosynthesis, in the microsomal fraction of the liver without affecting cholesterol synthesis in the host liver of hepatoma-bearing rats. These results suggest that PGBR as well as BR suppresses hypercholesterolemia induced by hepatoma growth by up-regulating cholesterol catabolism.
16464975	"Naturally occurring" or "programmed" cell death (PCD) in which the cell uses specialized cellular machinery to kill itself is a ubiquitous phenomenon that occurs early in organ development. Such a cell suicide mechanism that enables metazoans to control cell number and eliminate cells threatening the organism's survival has been thought to be under genetic control. In this report, we develop a novel statistical model for mapping specific genes or quantitative trait loci (QTL) that are responsible for the PCD process based on polymorphic molecular markers. This model incorporates the biological mechanisms of PCD that undergoes two different developmental stages, exponential growth and polynomial death. We derived a parametric approach to model the exponential growth and a nonparametric approach based on the Legendre function to model the polynomial death. A series of stationary and nonstationary models has been used to approximate the structure of the covariance matrix among cell numbers at a multitude of different times. The statistical behavior of our model is investigated through simulation studies and validated by a real example in rice.
16465200	To investigate the association between dietary patterns and risk of a first nonfatal acute myocardial infarction (MI) in Costa Rican adults. Population-based case-control study. A total of 496 incident MI cases and 518 population-based randomly selected controls matched to the cases by age (+/-5 years), gender, and county of residence. Subjects were interviewed with a validated food frequency questionnaire. Dietary patterns were identified by factor analysis. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were obtained using multivariate conditional logistic regression adjusted for several recognized risk factors for MI. Two diet patterns were identified, 'vegetable' characterized by increased intake of vegetables and fruits, and 'staple', characterized by an increased use of palm oil for cooking, and intake of refined grains (mostly white rice and white bread), legumes, coffee, added sugar, and red meat. Compared to the lowest quintile of the staple diet pattern, the highest quintile was associated with an increased risk of MI (OR: 3.70, 95% CI: 2.30-5.97). Adjusting for potential confounders did not change the results (OR: 3.53, 95% CI: 1.98-6.31). Consistently, an increasing staple pattern score was associated with lower HDL cholesterol (P for trend <0.02) and alpha-linolenic acid in adipose tissue (P for trend <0.0001). The vegetable pattern was not associated with MI. The staple dietary pattern of Costa Rican adults is associated with low plasma HDL cholesterol, low alpha-linolenic acid in adipose tissue, and increased risk of MI.
16465408	Fermented brown rice by Aspergillus oryzae (FBRA) has been shown to be a potent anti-carcinogenic compound. Here, we investigated the modifying effects of dietary feeding with a naturally occurring anti-oxidant FBRA on N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)-nitrosamine (OH-BBN)-induced urinary bladder carcinogenesis in male ICR mice. Five-week-old male ICR mice were divided into 7 groups, and groups 1-5 were given OH-BBN (500 ppm) in drinking water for 6 weeks starting at 7 weeks of age. Groups 2 and 3 were fed the diet containing 5% and 10% FBRA during the initiation phase, respectively, whereas groups 4 and 5 were fed these diets during the post-initiation phase. Group 6 was given the diet containing 10% FBRA throughout the experiment, and group 7 was kept on the basal diet alone and served as an untreated control. At the end of the study (week 32), the incidences of simple hyperplasia, dysplasia and carcinoma in the bladders of group 1 (OH-BBN alone) were 92%, 49% and 38%, respectively. Those of group 5 (64%, 23% and 10%) and the incidence of carcinoma of group 4 (17%) was significantly less than that of group 1. Furthermore, the multiplicity of simple hyperplasia and carcinoma of group 5 was significantly less than that of group 1. Post-initiation exposure of 10% FBRA significantly decreased the number/nucleus of silver-stained nucleolar organizer region proteins (AgNORs), an index of cell proliferation, in the non-lesional transitional epithelium when compared to that of the control. Our results indicate that FBRA exerts chemopreventive effects against chemically induced urinary bladder carcinogenesis through anti-proliferative mechanisms. FBRA could be a promising chemopreventive agent for human urinary bladder cancer.
16465984	Commercially produced dried broken rice is widely used to prepare complementary foods for Thai infants, and it is both convenient and acceptable to persons from all socioeconomic classes. However, inadequate levels of calcium, iron, thiamine, and folate are common in complementary foods for breastfed infants. We developed dried broken rice fortified with these nutrients at levels recommended by the 2001 guidelines of the World Health Organization. The fortification process involved predrying broken rice at 90 degrees C for 1 hour, soaking in a nutrient solution (2:1 ratio of rice to solution), and drying at 70 degrees C for 1 hour and 50 minutes. Calcium lactate or calcium lactate gluconate was the calcium source, and ferrous sulfate, ferrous lactate, or ferric sodium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (NaFeEDTA) was the iron source. The vitamin sources were thiamine hydrochloride and folic acid. The product contained 40 mg of calcium, 5.3 mg of iron, 0.08 mg of thiamine, and 11 microg of folate per 20-g serving. Approximately 5% and 10% of calcium and iron, respectively, were lost during processing, with a thiamine loss of approximately 13%, and a folate loss ranging from 17% to 23%. The thiamine loss during accelerated storage (42 degrees C for three months) was not significant (p > .05). NaFeEDTA was the most appropriate iron fortificant because it provided prolonged product stability and high in vitro dialyzability.
16465988
16466027	Lichenicolous fungus LL-RB0668 was isolated from a processed lichen thallus on a modified Lilly-Barnett solid medium. Two new bisnaphthopyrone compounds, lichenicolins A (1) and B (2), were isolated from the culture broth of this organism fermented on a rice-based solid medium. These results demonstrate that lichen-associated fungi potentially are a good resource for new bioactive natural products for current screening programs.
16466377	Chemotaxis may be important when forming cyanobacterial symbioses. However, knowledge of cyanobacterial attraction towards plants and factors affecting chemotaxis is limited. Chemo-attraction was observed in Nostoc strains 8964:3 and PCC 73102 towards exudate or crushed extract of the natural hosts Gunnera manicata, Cycas revoluta and Blasia pusilla, and the nonhost plants Trifolium repens, Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. As all tested plant extracts generated chemotaxis, the possibility to attract cyanobacteria may be widespread in plants. Chemotaxis was reduced by increased temperature and darkness and was stimulated by phosphorous and iron starvation and elevated salt concentration. Sugars (arabinose, galactose, and glucose) had a positive effect on chemotaxis, whereas flavonoids (chrysin and naringenin) and amino acids (methionine, glycine, serine, phenylalanine, glutamine, and lysine) had no effect.
16468457	In this paper, a new statistical model for representing the amplitude statistics of ultrasonic images is presented. The model is called the Rician inverse Gaussian (RiIG) distribution, due to the fact that it is constructed as a mixture of the Rice distribution and the Inverse Gaussian distribution. The probability density function (pdf) of the RiIG model is given in closed form as a function of three parameters. Some theoretical background on this new model is discussed, and an iterative algorithm for estimating its parameters from data is given. Then, the appropriateness of the RiIG distribution as a model for the amplitude statistics of medical ultrasound images is experimentally studied. It is shown that the new distribution can fit to the various shapes of local histograms of linearly scaled ultrasound data better than existing models. A log-likelihood cross-validation comparison of the predictive performance of the RiIG, the K, and the generalized Nakagami models turns out in favor of the new model. Furthermore, a maximum a posteriori (MAP) filter is developed based on the RiIG distribution. Experimental studies show that the RiIG MAP filter has excellent filtering performance in the sense that it smooths homogeneous regions, and at the same time preserves details.
16469081	According to a recent classification, self-healing papular mucinosis (SHPM) is a subtype of papular mucinosis (also known as lichen myxedematosus), which is in turn a type of idiopathic localized cutaneous mucinosis. SHPM tends to occur in children, but there have been a few reports of an adult type. We report a 70-year-old Japanese woman who presented with reddish, rice-kernel-sized papules of a few days' duration on her right arm. She had a 25-year history of rheumatoid arthritis, which had been well treated with a low dose of corticosteroid as well as some other medications. No paraproteinemia or thyroid dysfunction were observed. The eruptions spontaneously resolved within 2.5 months of onset. Histological findings showed a well-circumscribed mucinous stroma surrounded by dermal mesenchymal cells, such as fibroblast-like cells in the middle of the dermis. Immunohistochemically, these cells were positive only for vimentin on the mucinous lesion. On the circumference of the mucinous lesion, these cells expressed either CD34 or factor XIIIa (FXIIIa). Because vimentin was common to dermal mesenchymal cells, we defined the cells expressing CD34 or FXIIIa, except for vimentin+ cells lacking CD34 or FXIIIa, as dermal dendritic cells (DDC). The findings of the present case suggest that CD34+ or FXIIIa+ DDC and tryptase-positive mast cells on the perilesional area in combination with vimentin+ cells on the mucinous lesion might have given rise to the dermal deposition of mucin in our case. These cells, which are possibly activated in an autoimmune manner associated with rheumatoid arthritis, might play important roles in the development of dermal deposition of mucin in SHPM.
16469722	The selection of suitable inducible-promoters is one of the most important chains in transgenic researches for plant tolerances to drought, dehydration and other abiotic stresses. Based on laboratory researches in the past years, it was set up a set of methods that could be used to rapidly determine the transient expression characteristics of drought- and dehydration-inducible promoters by using whole barley seedling and plant leaves in vitro as bombardment objects. Promoters Dhn4s, Dhn8s, HVA1s, Rab16Bj and wsi18j isolated from barley and rice were able to express GFP in the leaves of barley, wheat, rice, sorghum and fern after drying treatment, but not in laves of mungbean and tomato. The qualitative expression of HVA1s and wsi18j in different organs and tissues of barley was identified. A method for quantitative analysis of promoter transient expression was established by means of GFP foci/GUS foci counting or GUS activity/XYN activity test. Finally, the value and prospect of the methodology were discussed in terms of its application to the analysis of plant promoters inducible by environmental factors.
16469988	Lactoferrin is a major protein component of human milk, and it binds iron with high affinity. Because the human small intestine has receptors for lactoferrin, a role for it in iron absorption has been suggested. The objective was to study the absorption of iron from extrinsically labeled purified recombinant human lactoferrin produced in rice and to compare it with the absorption of iron from ferrous sulfate. On 2 occasions 4 wk apart, healthy young women (n = 20) were fed a standardized meal supplemented in randomized order with 59Fe as lactoferrin or as ferrous sulfate. Ten subjects received lactoferrin that had been heat-treated, and 10 subjects received untreated lactoferrin. Iron absorption was measured in a whole-body counter after 14 and 28 d and also was measured by red blood cell incorporation after 28 d. The difference in whole-body iron absorption between heat-treated (24.6 +/- 20.8%; n = 10) and untreated (16.2 +/- 4.4%; n = 10) lactoferrin was not significant. The difference in whole-body iron absorption between the groups given lactoferrin (20.4 +/- 15.3%; n = 20) or ferrous sulfate (18.8 +/- 13.2%; n = 20) also was not significant. Serum ferritin and iron absorption were inversely correlated in subjects when they received either lactoferrin or ferrous sulfate, which suggested that iron is absorbed from the 2 sources by a similar mechanism. Iron is equally well absorbed from lactoferrin (whether heat-treated or untreated) and ferrous sulfate. Thus, iron provided by dietary lactoferrin is likely to be well utilized in human adults.
16469997	Observational and interventional evidence supports a relation between human schistosomiasis and anemia; however, the exact causal mechanisms remain unclear. Eggs translocating across the intestinal or bladder wall may result in extracorporeal blood loss with subsequent iron deficiency. Alternatively, anemia may result from cytokine-mediated dyserythropoiesis, as seen in anemia of inflammation. By evaluating the cross-sectional relation between the intensity of Schistosoma japonicum infection, hemoglobin concentration, and iron status in 7-30-y-old persons from S. japonicum-endemic rice-farming villages in the province of Leyte, Philippines, we assessed the relative contribution of iron deficiency and anemia of inflammation to schistosomiasis-associated anemia. We enrolled 627 S. japonicum-infected and 111 S. japonicum-uninfected persons. We obtained stool samples to quantify S. japonicum infection and venous blood samples for hemograms and measures of iron status and inflammation. Intensity of S. japonicum infection was independently associated with hemoglobin (beta = -0.24; 95% CI: -0.31, -0.17). Persons with high-intensity infection had a greater risk of iron deficiency anemia (adjusted prevalence odds ratio: 6.6; 95% CI: 2.9, 14.7), but there was no evidence of this relation in low-intensity infections. In contrast, anemia without iron deficiency was prevalent across all intensities (adjusted prevalence odds ratio: 3.8; 95% CI: 1.5, 9.5). Storage iron deficiency is a major contributor to anemia in high-intensity S. japonicum infection. A high prevalence of anemia without iron deficiency, exclusion of other mechanisms of anemia, and the evidence of low bioavailable iron suggest that anemia of inflammation contributes to S. japonicum-associated anemia at all infection intensities.
16471238	A 7-year-old Indian boy travelling from India to the United Kingdom was brought to the Emergency Clinic of Airport Medical Services at Schiphol airport in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. He had had watery diarrhoea in the aircraft and had lost consciousness. In view of the strong indications for cholera and the rice water-like diarrhoea, he was admitted to the paediatric ward of the VU Medical Centre where intravenous rehydration was carried out. He recovered within three days. A large number of comma-shaped, motile, Gram-negative rods were found in the faeces. After two days, the faeces culture revealed Vibrio cholerae O1 El Tor, serotype Inaba. On the day of the flight, the patient had drunk a litre of water from a bottle that later turned out to have been from the New Delhi water supply. Cholera is rare as an import disease in the Netherlands. Due to the severe dehydration, the infection can run a serious course and even be fatal. The infection is not transmitted from person to person. Therefore, no special measures are needed when a patient with cholera is admitted to hospital.
16471351	Through a whole year field investigation, this paper analyzed the population dynamics of pests and their enemies in organic and normally cultivated rice fields. The results indicated that the population of main pests varied more lightly in organic than in normally cultivated rice field, while subordinated pest species had little difference between these two fields. The individuals of enemies were more in organic than in normally cultivated rice field. It is suggested that the pest-control effect of enemies could be restored and became stronger when no chemical pesticides were applied.
16471358	Phytase can catalyze phytate hydrolyzed into inositol and phosphoric acid, and its application could make the phytic acid in animal feeds become more available, decrease feed cost, and at the same time, protect eco-environment. In this paper, a phytase-producing strain Trichoderma Viride LH374 was obtained through isolation and mutation, and its optimal conditions for solid state fermentation and phytase production were investigated. The results suggested that the optimal conditions of solid state fermentation were straw:rice bran ratio 8:2, medium initial pH 6.5, temperature 30 degrees C, culture duration 96 h, and moisture content 60%. Under the optimal conditions, LH374 could accumulate phytase up to 1,580 U x g(-1).
16471360	A pot experiment with rice under submerged condition showed that with the increase of Cd concentration, soil microbial biomass carbon (Cmic) and nitrogen (Nmic) increased initially but decreased at a certain concentration, and the turning points varied with different soil types. Soil enzyme activities had the similar variation trend with soil Cmic and Nmic, and the turning points varied with different soil types and soil enzymes. The variation coefficients were in order of dehydrogenase activity > acid phophatase activity > urease activity. Soil respiration rate and metabolic quotient increased tardily with increasing cadmium concentration. The chlorophyll content of rice increased initially but decreased then with the increase of Cd contamination, and the turning points differed with different soil types. Rice proline content and peroxidase activity were enhanced gradually with increasing cadmium concentration. The variation coefficients of rice physiological indices on paddy soils derived from silty loam and clayed red earth were in order of peroxidase activity > chlorophyll content > proline content, and peroxidase activity > proline content > chlorophyll content, respectively. Correlation analysis indicated that there was a close correlation between the variations of soil microbial biomass and enzymatic activities and rice physiological indices under Cd contamination.
16471365	To evaluate the environmental cost of rice production is of significance for the sustainable development of agriculture and the set-up of green GDP accounting system. In this paper, the environmental cost of rice production in Dongting Lake area, one of the main bread baskets in China, was evaluated from the aspects of pesticide pollution, chemical fertilizer pollution, greenhouse gases emission, plastic film persistence, paddyfield gleyization, and polderization. The results showed that in 1999, the total environmental cost of rice production in this area was 41.91 billion yuan, equivalent to 26.8% of its total agricultural production value, or 28.5% of the gross output of its planting industry. For the sustainable production of rice, the strategies for decrease environmental cost intrinsically were put forward.
16472385	The development of mosquito nets pre-treated with insecticide, Long Lasting Impregnated Nets (LLINs) that last the life span of the net, is a solution to the difficulty of the re-impregnation of conventional nets. Even if they showed a good efficacy in control conditions, their efficacy in the field, particularly in areas with resistance of Anopheles gambiae to pyrethroids, is not well documented. This study compares wide (Olyset) and small (Permanet) mesh LLINs in field conditions, using entomological parameters. The two LLINs were tested in a rice-growing area of south-western Burkina Faso (West Africa) with year around high density of the main malaria vector An. gambiae s.s. In the study village (VK6), there is a mixed population of two molecular forms of An. gambiae, the S-form which dominates during the rainy season and the M-form which dominates the rest of the year. The two LLINs Olyset and Permanet were distributed in the village and 20 matched houses were selected for comparison with four houses without treated nets. Mosquito entrance rate was ten fold higher in control houses than in houses with LLINs and there was no difference between the two net types. Among mosquitoes found in the houses, 36 % were dead in LLIN houses compared to 0% in control houses. Blood feeding rate was 80 % in control houses compared to 43 % in LLIN houses. The type of net did not significantly impact any of these parameters. No mosquitoes were found inside Permanet, whereas dead or dying mosquitoes were collected inside the Olyset. More than 60% of mosquitoes found on top or inside the nets had had blood meals from cattle, as shown by ELISA analysis. The percentage of blood-fed mosquitoes in a bed net study does not necessarily determine net success. The efficacy of the two types of LLINs was comparable, during a period when the S-form of An. gambiae was carrying the kdr gene. Significantly higher numbers of mosquitoes were collected in control houses compared to intervention houses, indicating that the LLINs provided an additional deterrent effect, which enhanced their expected prevention capacity.
16472405	The response regulators represent the elements of bacterial two-component system and have been characterized from dicot plants like Arabidopsis but little information is available on the monocots, including the cereal crops. The aim of this study was to characterize type-A response regulator genes from rice, and to investigate their expression in various organs as well as in response to different hormones, including cytokinin, and environmental stimuli. By analysis of the whole genome sequence of rice, we have identified ten genes encoding type-A response regulators based upon their high sequence identity within the receiver domain. The exon-intron organization, intron-phasing as well as chromosomal location of all the RT-PCR amplified rice (Oryza sativa) response regulator (OsRR) genes have been analyzed. The transcripts of OsRR genes could be detected by real-time PCR in all organs of the light- and dark-grown rice seedlings/plants, although there were quantitative differences. The steady-state transcript levels of most of the OsRR genes increased rapidly (within 15 min) on exogenous cytokinin application even in the presence of cycloheximide. Moreover, the expression of the OsRR6 gene was enhanced in rice seedlings exposed to salinity, dehydration and low temperature stress. Ten type-A response regulator genes identified in rice, the model monocot plant, show overlapping/differential expression patterns in various organs and in response to light. The induction of OsRR genes by cytokinin even in the absence of de novo protein synthesis qualifies them to be primary cytokinin response genes. The induction of OsRR6 in response to different environmental stimuli indicates its role in cross-talk between abiotic stress and cytokinin signaling. These results provide a foundation for further investigations on specific as well as overlapping cellular functions of type-A response regulators in rice.
16473138	The cellular response to telomere dysfunction in plants was investigated with the use of telomestatin, an inhibitor of human telomerase activity. Telomestatin bound to plant telomeric repeat sequence, and inhibited telomerase activity in suspension-cultured cells of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice) in a dose-dependent manner. The inhibitor did not affect transcript level of the TERT gene, which encodes the catalytic subunit of telomerase, in the plant cells. Inhibition of telomerase activity by telomestatin resulted in rapid shortening of telomeres and the induction of cell death by an apoptosis-like mechanism in Arabidopsis cells. These results suggest that telomerase contributes to the survival of proliferating plant cells by maintaining telomere length, and that telomere erosion triggers cell death.
16473655	In order to analyze the putative impact of polyamines (PAs) on the plant response to salt, seedlings from the salt-sensitive rice cultivar I Kong Pao (IKP) were exposed for 5, 12 and 19 days to 0, 50 or 100 mM NaCl in the absence, or in the presence of exogenous PAs (putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd) or spermine (Spm) 1mM) or inhibitors of PA synthesis (methylglyoxalbis-guanyl hydrazone (MGBG) 1mM, cyclohexylammonium (CHA) 5mM and D-arginine (D-Arg) 5mM). The addition of PAs in nutritive solution reduced plant growth in the absence of NaCl and did not afford protection in the presence of salt. PA-treated plants exhibited a higher K+/Na+ ratio in the shoots, suggesting an improved discrimination among monovalent cations at the root level, especially at the sites of xylem loading. The diamine Put induced a decrease in the shoot water content in the presence of NaCl, while Spd and Spm had no effects on the plant water status. In contrast to Spd, Spm was efficiently translocated to the shoots. Both PAs (Spd and Spm) induced a decrease in cell membrane stability as suggested by a strong increase in malondialdehyde content of PA-treated plants exposed to NaCl. These results are discussed in relation to the putative functions of PAs in stressed plant metabolism.
16473657	Characteristics of photosynthetic light and CO2 use efficiency from seedling to heading stage, and C4 pathway enzyme activities in both flag leaves and lemma were compared between two newly developed super-rice hybrids (Oryza sativa L.), Liangyoupeijiu and Hua-an 3, and a traditional rice hybrid, Shanyou 63. At seedling and tillering stages, Liangyoupeijiu and Hua-an 3 had higher net photosynthetic rates (Pn) and light saturated assimilation rates (Asat) than did Shanyou 63, at both normal (360 micromol mol(-1)) and doubled (720 micromol mol(-1)) CO2 concentrations. At the heading stage, the flag leaves of all three rice hybrids had similar Pn and Asat. However, the two super-rice hybrids had higher apparent quantum yield (AQY) and carboxylation efficiency (CE) during all three typical developmental stages, and higher quantum yield of CO2 fixation (PhiCO2) at the tillering and heading stages. In addition, Liangyoupeijiu showed significantly higher activities of the C(4) pathway enzymes in both flag leaves and lemmas than did Shanyou 63. As a result, flag leaves of the two super-rice hybrids had higher Pn at morning, noontime and late afternoon during the daily cycle. Since most of the grain yield of rice comes from the photosynthesis of flag leaves, the similar Asat and much higher AQY, CE and PhiCO2 at heading stage of the two super-rice hybrids indicates that higher photosynthetic efficiency rather than higher photosynthetic capacity may be the primary factor contributing to their higher grain yields.
16473663	Among the abiotic stresses, the availability of water is the most important factor that limits the productive potential of higher plants. The identification of novel genes, determination of their expression patterns, and the understanding of their functions in stress adaptation is essential to improve stress tolerance. Amplified fragment length polymorphism analysis of cDNA was used to identify rice genes differentially expressed in a tolerant rice variety upon water-deficit stress. In total, 103 transcript-derived fragments corresponding to differentially induced genes were identified. The results of the sequence comparison in BLAST database revealed that several differentially expressed TDFs were significantly homologous to stress regulated genes/proteins isolated from rice or other plant species. Most of the transcripts identified here were genes related to metabolism, energy, protein biosynthesis, cell defence, signal transduction, and transport. New genes involved in the response to water-deficit stress in a tolerant rice variety are reported here.
16473773	The effects of biological pretreatment of rice straw using four white-rot fungi (Phanerochaete chrysosporium, Trametes versicolor, Ceriporiopsis subvermispora, and Pleurotus ostreatus) were evaluated on the basis of quantitative and structural changes in the components of the pretreated rice straw as well as susceptibility to enzymatic hydrolysis. Of these white-rot fungi, P. ostreatus selectively degraded the lignin fraction of rice straw rather than the holocellulose component. When rice straw (water content of 60%) was pretreated with P. ostreatus for 60 d, the total weight loss and the degree of Klason lignin degraded were 25% and 41%, respectively. After the pretreatment, the residual amounts of cellulose and hemicellulose were 83% and 52% of those in untreated rice straw, respectively. By enzymatic hydrolysis with a commercial cellulase preparation for 48 h, 52% holocellulose and 44% cellulose in the pretreated rice straw were solubilized. The net sugar yields based on the amounts of holocellulose and cellulose of untreated rice straw were 33% for total soluble sugar from holocellulose and 32% for glucose from cellulose. The SEM observations showed that the increase in susceptibility of rice straw to enzymatic hydrolysis by pretreatment with P. ostreatus is caused by partial degradation of the lignin seal. When the content of Klason lignin was less than 15% of the total weight of the pretreated straw, enhanced degrees of enzymatic solubilization of holocellulose and cellulose fractions were observed as the content of Klason lignin decreased.
16475013	Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) has anti-carcinogenic and anti-atherosclerosis activity, and modulatory effects on the immune system and lipid metabolism. To produce a transgenic rice plant that can accumulate CLA, a linoleate isomerase gene that can convert linoleic acid to trans-10, cis-12 CLA was introduced and expressed under the control of seed-specific promoters from the oleosin and globulin genes. The fatty acid composition of the transgenic rice grain was analyzed by gas chromatography. Although there was no clear difference in the fatty acid composition between seeds from transformed versus untransformed plants, a peak of trans-10, cis-12 CLA methyl ester, which was not present in seeds from untransformed plants, was found in transformed plants. The trans-10, cis-12 CLA comprised an average of 1.3% (w/w) of the total fatty acids in seeds carrying the oleosin promoter in comparison to 0.01% (w/w) in seeds carrying the globulin promoter. In addition, approximately 70 and 28% of the total amount of the CLA isomer were present in the triacylglycerol and free fatty acid fractions, respectively. These results demonstrate the ability to produce fatty acid components of vegetable oils with novel physiological activities in crops.
16475298
16475334	The fate of arsenic in aquatic systems is influenced by dissolved natural organic matter (DOM). Using UV-A and visible light from a medium-pressure mercury lamp, the photosensitized oxidation of As(III) to As(V) in the presence of Suwannee River humic acid was investigated. Pseudo-first-order kinetics was observed. For 5 mg L(-1) of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and 1.85 mEinstein m(-2) s(-1) UV-A fluence rate, the rate coefficient k degrees exp was 21.2 +/- 3.2 10(-5) s(-1), corresponding to a half-life <1 h. Rates increased linearly with DOC and they increased by a factor of 10 from pH 4 to 8. Based on experiments with radical scavengers, heavy water, and surrogates for DOM, excited triplet states and/or phenoxyl radicals seem to be important photooxidants in this system (rather than singlet oxygen, hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals, and superoxide). Photoirradiation of natural samples from freshwater lakes, rivers, and rice field water (Bangladesh) showed similar photoinduced oxidation rates based on DOC. Fe(III) (as polynuclear Fe(III)-(hydr)oxo complexes or Fe(III)-DOC complexes) accelerates the rate of photoinduced As(III) oxidation in the presence of DOC by a factor of 1.5-2.
16475504	A constitutive expression vector pHY300-Flgfp was constructed to test the function of promoter F1 subcloned from a rice epiphyte Bacillus brevis strain DX01. The DX01 cells harboring plasmid pHY300-F1gfp were detected to produce bright green fluorescence. Subsequently, the gfp-tagged B. brevis strain was released into the soil and its survival was investigated by PCR and the detection of green fluorescence. The spatial location of in situ gfp-tagged bacterial cells on the root surface of rice seedlings was visualized. All these results indicated that green fluorescent protein is an ideal molecular marker for the detection of the activities of promoter F1, and it is also a reliable probe to monitor specific B. brevis bacteria in the environment.
16476995	Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) is a double-stranded DNA virus with a single, tissue-specific promoter that is expressed primarily in phloem tissues. Rice transcription factors RF2a and RF2b bind to Box II, a cis element adjacent to the TATA box, and control gene expression from the promoter. Mutations were made in the promoter to delete or mutate Box II and the mutated promoters were fused to a reporter gene; the chimeric genes were expressed in transient BY-2 protoplast assays and in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. The results of these studies showed that Box II is essential to the activity of the RTBV promoter. A chimeric beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene containing the Box II sequence and a minimal promoter derived from the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were co-transfected into protoplasts with gene constructs that encoded RF2a or RF2b. The reporter gene produced threefold higher GUS activity when co-transfected with RF2a, and 11-fold higher activity when co-transfected with RF2b, than in the absence of added transcription factors. Moreover, chimeric reporter genes were activated by approximately threefold following induction of expression of the RF2a gene in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. The work presented here and earlier findings show that Box II and its interactions with cognate rice transcription factors, including RF2a and RF2b, are essential to the activity of the RTBV promoter and are probably involved in expression of the RTBV genome during virus replication.
16477129	OsRab5a encodes a Rab5 protein in rice, which belongs to the Rab family of small GTP-binding protein superfamily. Transgenic plants with POsrab5a::beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene indicate that OsRab5a is expressed in callus, root, stem, leaf, root base and spikelet (Figs.1, 2H-1). Using the transgenic Arabidopsis with fused gene of GFP::OsRab5a and GFP::OsRab5aCA and by using FM4-64 (the lipophilic styryl dye) staining, we have demonstrated that OsRab5a is involved in vesicular transport and GFP-OsRab5a is localized on the plasma membrane and early endosomes (Fig.2A-C), while GFP-OsRab5aCA is localized in the cell membrane (Fig.2D-F). The reduction of expression of OsRab5a in callus RNA interference, however, led to the lethality of callus during differentiation (Fig.3D-F). The expression of OsRab5a was upregulated slightly by exogenous cytokinin (Fig.4), and was higher in the differentiation medium than that in selection medium (Fig.3G-I). These results suggest that OsRab5a plays an important role in callus differentiation probably through mediating hormone signal transduction.
16477140	The distribution of ATPase was studied using lead precipitation technique during anther development in rice. The ATPase reactive precipitates (ppts) were located mostly in the nucleus of microspore mother cells (MMC) and only a few in the cytoplasm (Plate I-1). Anther wall had differentiated into four layers of cells and a few precipitates were located in the cells except the nucleus of tapetal cells where there were many ATPase reactive precipitates (Plate I-2). After meiosis of MMC, tapetal cells formed many endoplasmic reticula in its cytoplasm but still contained a few ppts. In the cells of epidermis, endothelium and middle layer, the ppts increased evidently in plasma membrane and near cytoplasm than before (Plate I-5). There were a large number of ppts located in the pollen wall during pollen development (Plate I-6), suggesting that ATPase is necessary for the construction of pollen wall. The exine of pollen wall of rice was constructed during microspore development and consisted of sporopollenin which came from tapetal cells. The ppts in exine also came from tapetal cell (Plate II-7). The intine of pollen wall was constructed during the stage of 2-cellular pollen and consisted of cellulose material coming from vegetative cell of pollen. The ATPase and ppts in intine came from vegetative cell of pollen (Plate III-7). Vegetative cell contained more ppts than generative cell during the development of 2-cellular pollen (Plate II-4, 5). The amount of ppts between two sperm cells in a pollen grain was also different (Plate IV-3,4). The physiological functions of ATPase located in different cells and different parts in the cells during anther development of rice were analyzed.
16477428	Grain length in rice plays an important role in determining rice appearance, milling, cooking and eating quality. In this study, the genetic basis of grain length was dissected into six main-effect quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and twelve pairs of epistatic QTLs. The stability of these QTLs was evaluated in four environments using an F7 recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from the cross between a Japonica variety, Asominori, and an Indica variety, IR24. Moreover, chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) harboring each of the six main-effect QTLs were used to evaluate gene action of QTLs across eight environments. A major QTL denoted as qGL-3a, was found to express stably not only in the isogenic background of Asominori but also in the recombinant background of Asominori and IR24 under multiple environments. The IR24 allele at qGL-3a has a positive effect on grain length. Based on the test of advanced backcross progenies, qGL-3a was dissected as a single Mendelian factor, i.e., long rice grain was controlled by a recessive gene gl-3. High-resolution genetic and physical maps were further constructed for fine mapping gl-3 by using 11 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers designed using sequence information from seven BAC/PAC clones and a BC4F2 population consisting of 2,068 individuals. Consequently, the gl-3 gene was narrowed down to a candidate genomic region of 87.5 kb long defined by SSR markers RMw357 and RMw353 on chromosome 3, which provides a basis for map-based cloning of this gene and for marker-aided QTL pyramiding in rice quality breeding.
16478232	Echinochloa P. Beauv. is an important genus because many of its species are weeds infesting most paddy fields, which can reduce the rice grain production by up to 80%. A controversy exists about the taxonomy of the genus due to the high level of morphological variations found in these species. Cyhalofop-butyl, an aryloxyphenoxy-propionate herbicide, is used to control Echinochloa spp. in paddy fields, although differences in susceptibility were found between different Echinochloa species. E. colona was highly susceptible [ED50= 34 g of active ingredient (ai) ha(-1)]; very similar results were obtained with the remaining species. By contrast, E. oryzicola (170 g of ai ha(-1)) was less sensitive, with the herbicide symptoms appearing later. Because of this differential susceptibility, morphological and molecular studies were carried out. A morphological study, using 21 characters both quantitative and qualitative of spikelets and seedlings, was capable of clearly distinguishing closely related E. crus-galli plants (two populations), E. muricata and E. crus-pavonis, and E. oryzicola, E. utilis, and E. colona species. The resolution of Echinochloa species at the molecular level, based on RAPD analyses, was fairly consistent with morphological analysis results. Among the 60 primers screened, 21 primers exhibited polymorphic bands and produced a total of 136 RAPD markers. Of all the amplified fragments, 90 were found to be polymorphic. E. oryzicola and E. colona were clearly separated, and the RAPD analyses showed that both E. crus-galli populations were 100% related and 51% related to E. utilis, whereas E. crus-pavonis and E. muricata (73% similarity) appeared as being clearly separated from this group.
16478279	The effect of amylose-lipid (AM-L) complexes consisting of amylose populations with different peak degrees of polymerization (DP) and complexed with glyceryl monostearate (GMS) or docosanoic acid (C22) on the pasting properties of wheat and rice starches was evaluated with a rapid visco analyzer (RVA). AM-L complexes were formed by both (i) addition of lipids to amylose fractions with peak DP 20, 60, 400, or 950 at 60 degrees C or (ii) potato phosphorylase-catalyzed amylose synthesis in the presence of lipids. All AM-L complexes affected pasting properties in line with their dissociation characteristics. AM-L complexes therefore have potential as "controlled lipid release agents" with effects markedly different from those observable with emulsifier addition in starch pasting. More in particular, short chain AM-L complexes resulted in a starch pasting behavior comparable to that of cross-linked starch, as evidenced by reduced granule swelling, good viscosity stability in conditions of high temperature and shear, and a stable cold paste viscosity.
16478446	Temperate rice field soil from Vercelli (Italy) contains moderately thermophilic methanogens of the yet uncultivated rice cluster I (RC-I), which become prevalent upon incubation at temperatures of 45-50 degrees C. We studied whether such thermophilic methanogens were ubiquitously present in anoxic soils. Incubation of different rice field soils (from Italy, China and the Philippines) and flooded riparian soils (from the Netherlands) at 45 degrees C resulted in vigorous CH(4) production after a lag phase of about 10 days. The archaeal community structure in the soils was analysed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) targeting the SSU rRNA genes retrieved from the soil, and by cloning and sequencing. Clones of RC-I methanogens mostly exhibited T-RF of 393 bp, but also terminal restriction fragment (T-RF) of 158 and 258 bp length, indicating a larger diversity than previously assumed. No RC-I methanogens were initially found in flooded riparian soils. However, these archaea became abundant upon incubation of the soil at 45 degrees C. Thermophilic RC-I methanogens were also found in the rice field soils from Pavia, Pila and Gapan. However, the archaeal communities in these soils also contained other methanogenic archaea at high temperature. Rice field soil from Buggalon, on the other hand, only contained thermophilic Methanomicrobiales rather than RC-I methanogens, and rice field soil from Jurong mostly Methanomicrobiales and only a few RC-I methanogens. The archaeal community of rice field soil from Zhenjiang almost exclusively consisted of Methanosarcinaceae when incubated at high temperature. Our results show that moderately thermophilic methanogens are common in temperate soils. However, RC-I methanogens are not always dominating or ubiquitous.
16478466	The studies on calcium sensor calcineurin B-like protein (CBL) and CBL interacting protein kinases (CIPK) are limited to Arabidopsis and rice and their functional role is only beginning to emerge. Here, we present cloning and characterization of a protein kinase (PsCIPK) from a legume, pea, with novel properties. The PsCIPK gene is intronless and encodes a protein that showed partial homology to the members of CIPK family. The recombinant PsCIPK protein was autophosphorylated at Thr residue(s). Immunoprecipitation and yeast two-hybrid analysis showed direct interaction of PsCIPK with PsCBL, whose cDNA and genomic DNA were also cloned in this study. PsCBL showed homology to AtCBL3 and contained calcium-binding activity. We demonstrate for the first time that PsCBL is phosphorylated at its Thr residue(s) by PsCIPK. Immunofluorescence/confocal microscopy showed that PsCBL is exclusively localized in the cytosol, whereas PsCIPK is localized in the cytosol and the outer membrane. The exposure of plants to NaCl, cold and wounding co-ordinately upregulated the expression of PsCBL and PsCIPK genes. The transcript levels of both genes were also coordinately stimulated in response to calcium and salicylic acid. However, drought and abscisic acid had no effect on the expression of these genes. These studies show the ubiquitous presence of CBL/CIPK in higher plants and enhance our understanding of their role in abiotic and biotic stress signalling.
16478766	Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) activase (RCA) is a nuclear-encoded chloroplast protein that modifies the conformation of Rubisco, releases inhibitors from active sites, and increases enzymatic activity. It appears to have other functions, e.g. in gibberellin signalling and as a molecular chaperone, which are related to its distribution within the chloroplast. The aim of this research was to resolve uncertainty about the localization of RCA, and to determine whether the distributions of Rubisco and RCA were altered when RCA content was reduced. The monocotyledon, Oryza sativa was used as a model species. Gas exchange and Rubisco were measured, and the sub-cellular locations of Rubisco and RCA were determined using immunogold-labelling electron microscopy, in wild-type and antisense rca rice plants. In antisense rca plants, net photosynthetic rate and the initial Rubisco activity decreased much less than RCA content. Immunocytolocalization showed that Rubisco in wild-type and antisense plants was localized in the stroma of chloroplasts. However, the amount of Rubisco in the antisense rca plants was greater than in the wild-type plants. RCA was detected in both the chloroplast stroma and in the thylakoid membranes of wild-type plants. The percentage of RCA labelling in the thylakoid membrane was shown to be substantially decreased, while the fraction in the stroma was increased, by the antisense rca treatment. From the changes in RCA distribution and alterations in Rubisco activity, RCA in the stroma of the chloroplast probably contributes to the activation of Rubisco, and RCA in thylakoids compensates for the reduction of RCA in the stroma, allowing steady-state photosynthesis to be maintained when RCA is depleted. RCA may also have a second role in protecting membranes against environmental stresses as a chaperone.
16480336	The genus Tilletia is a group of smut fungi that infects grasses either systemically or locally. Basic differences exist between the systemically infecting species, such as the common and dwarf bunt fungi, and locally infecting species. Tilletia indica, which causes Karnal bunt of wheat, and Tilletia horrida, which causes rice kernel smut, are two examples of locally infecting species on economically important crops. However, even species on noncultivated hosts can become important when occurring as contaminants in export grain and seed shipments. In this review, we focus on T. indica and the morphologically similar but distantly related T. horrida, considering history, systematics, and biology. In addition, the controversial generic placement and evolutionary relationships of these two species are discussed in light of recent molecular studies.
16482635	To cost-effectively express the 23-ku pE2, the most promising subunit vaccine encoded by the E2 fragment comprising of the 3'-portion of hepatitis E virus (HEV) open reading frame 2 (ORF2) in plastids of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv. SR1), to investigate the transgene expression and pE2 accumulation in plastids, and to evaluate the antigenic effect of the plastid-derived pE2 in mice. Plastid-targeting vector pRB94-E2 containing the E2 fragment driven by rice psbA promoter was constructed. Upon delivery into tobacco plastids, this construct could initiate homologous recombination in psaB-trnfM and trnG-psbC fragments in plastid genome, and result in transgene inserted between the two fragments. The pRB94-E2 was delivered with a biolistic particle bombardment method, and the plastid-transformed plants were obtained following the regeneration of the bombarded leaf tissues on a spectinomycin-supplemented medium. Transplastomic status of the regenerated plants was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis, transgene expression was investigated by Northern blot analysis, and accumulation of pE2 was measured by ELISA. Furthermore, protein extracts were used to immunize mice, and the presence of the pE2-reactive antibodies in serum samples of the immunized mice was studied by ELISA. Transplastomic lines confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis could actively transcribe the E2 mRNA. The pE2 polypeptide was accumulated to a level as high as 13.27 microg/g fresh leaves. The pE2 could stimulate the immunized mice to generate pE2-specific antibodies. HEV-E2 fragment can be inserted into the plastid genome and the recombinant pE2 antigen derived is antigenic in mice. Hence, plastids may be a novel source for cost-effective production of HEV vaccines.
16483027	The quantity and type of dietary fat is known to affect plasma lipid concentration and hence the choice of cooking oil is important to lower the risk of coronary heart disease. Rice bran oil, which was not popular worldwide, is slowly being recognized as a 'healthy' oil in India. We assessed if rice bran oil had hypolipidaemic effects in subjects with elevated lipid levels. The study had a cross-over design with subjects (n = 14) randomly assigned to consume either rice bran oil or refined sunflower oil in their homes, for a period of 3 months (period 1). After a washout period of 3 weeks, they were crossed over to the other oil (period 2). The serum lipid values were estimated at the beginning, on day 45 and day 90 of each phase. Additional parameters assessed included anthropometry, dietary and physical activity patterns. The use of rice bran oil significantly reduced plasma total cholesterol and triglyceride levels compared with sunflower oil. The reduction in plasma LDL-cholesterol with rice bran oil was just short of statistical significance (p = 0.06). HDL-cholesterol levels were unchanged. The use of rice bran oil as the main cooking oil significantly reduced serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. The use of rice bran oil together with dietary and lifestyle modifications may have implications for reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease.
16483690	The relationship between coleoptile elongation and ethanolic fermentation was investigated in rice (Oryza sativa L.) coleoptiles of four cultivars subjected to a 48-h anoxic stress. The coleoptile elongation of all cultivars was suppressed by anoxic stress; however, the elongation of cvs Yukihikari and Nipponbare was much greater than that of cvs Leulikelash and Asahimochi. The stress did not significantly increase lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity or lactate concentration, but increased alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) activities, as well as ethanol concentration in the coleoptiles of all cultivars. The elevated ADH and PDC activities and ethanol concentration in cvs Yukihikari and Nipponbare were much greater than those of cvs Leulikelash and Asahimochi, suggesting that ethanolic fermentation is likely more active in cvs Yukihikari and Nipponbare than in cvs Leulikelash and Asahimochi. ATP concentration in cvs Yukihikari and Nipponbare in anoxia was also greater than that in cvs Leulikelash and Asahimochi in anoxia. The ethanol concentration in the coleoptiles was correlated with anoxia tolerance with respect to the ATP concentration and coleoptile elongation. These results suggest that the ability to increase ethanolic fermentation may be one of the determinants in anoxia tolerance of rice coleoptiles.
16484725	The efficiency of xylanase of Bacillus brevis BISR-062 as a prebleaching agent was evaluated on three nonwoody pulps at two different pH values (7.0 and 8.5). Crude xylanase was found to have an optimum temperature and pH of 65-70 degrees C and 7.0, respectively. The stability of the enzyme was determined at two pH values (7.0 and 8.0), and it lost approx 50% of its activity at both values within 2 h at 50 degrees C. However, the enzyme was found to be effective as a prebleaching agent only with rice straw pulp. A maximum brightness gain of 6 points was obtained with this pulp at pH 7.0. The strength properties of the rice straw pulp at pH 7.0 also improved as the result of enzyme treatment.
16486500	We use x-ray spectroscopy to examine the electronic structure of high-temperature superconducting superlattices [(Ba0.9Nd0.10)CuO(2 + delta)]2/[CaCuO2]2. The O 2p density of states reveals the insulating character of the individual component layers and the metallic character of the superlattices. We report the first direct observation of Zhang-Rice singlets in artificial high-temperature superconducting heteroepitaxial structures. The experimental findings in the superlattices and its component layers offer evidence of charge transport from the so-called charge reservoir layer to the superconducting infinite layer. This suggests a strong link between superconductivity and both electron correlation and charge transfer within the superlattices.
16486879	In the archetypal strongly correlated electron superconductor CeCu2Si2 and its Ge-substituted alloys CeCu2(Si1-xGex)2 two quantum phase transitions--one magnetic and one of so far unknown origin-can be crossed as a function of pressure. We examine the associated anomalous normal state by detailed measurements of the low temperature resistivity (rho) power-law exponent alpha. At the lower critical point (at pcl, 1<or=alpha<or=1.5) alpha depends strongly on Ge concentration x and thereby on disorder level, consistent with a Hlubina-Rice-Rosch scenario of critical scattering off antiferromagnetic fluctuations. By contrast, alpha is independent of x at the upper quantum phase transition (at pc2, alpha approximately equal to 1), suggesting critical scattering from local or q=0 modes, in agreement with a density- or valence-fluctuation approach.
16487081	DNA composition dynamics across genomes of diverse taxonomy is a major subject of genome analyses. DNA composition changes are characteristics of both replication and repair machineries. We investigated 3,611,007 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) generated by comparing two sequenced rice genomes from distant inbred lines (subspecies), including those from 242,811 introns and 45,462 protein-coding sequences (CDSs). Neighboring-nucleotide effects (NNEs) of these SNPs are diverse, depending on structural content-based classifications (genome-wide, intronic, and CDS) and sequence context-based categories (A/C, A/G, A/T, C/G, C/T, and G/T substitutions) of the analyzed SNPs. Strong and evident NNEs and nucleotide proportion biases surrounding the analyzed SNPs were observed in 1-3 bp sequences on both sides of an SNP. Strong biases were observed around neighboring nucleotides of protein-coding SNPs, which exhibit a periodicity of three in nucleotide content, constrained by a combined effect of codon-related rules and DNA repair mechanisms. Unlike a previous finding in the human genome, we found negative correlation between GC contents of chromosomes and the magnitude of corresponding bias of nucleotide C at -1 site and G at +1 site. These results will further our understanding of the mutation mechanism in rice as well as its evolutionary implications.
16488176	The profile of protein sorting into multivesicular bodies (MVBs) has risen recently with the identification of three heteromeric complexes known as ESCRT-I,-II,-III (Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport). Genetic analyses in yeast have identified up to 15 soluble class E VPS (vacuolar protein sorting) proteins that have been assigned to the ESCRT machinery and function in cargo recognition and sorting, complex assembly, vesicle formation and dissociation. Despite their functional importance in yeast and mammalian cells, little is known about their presence and function in other organisms including plants. We have made use of the fully sequenced genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans to explore the identity, structural characteristics and phylogenetic relationships of proteins assigned to the ESCRT machinery.
16488486	Avian reovirus (ARV) structural protein, sigmaC encoded by S1 genome segment, is the prime candidate to become a vaccine against ARV infection. Two plant nuclear expression vectors with expression of sigmaC-encoding gene driven by CaMV 35S promoter and rice actin promoter were constructed, respectively. Agrobacterium containing the S1 expression constructs were used to transform alfalfa, and transformants were selected using hygromysin. The integration of S1 transgene in alfalfa chromosome was confirmed by PCR and histochemical GUS staining. Western blot analysis using antiserum against sigmaC was carried out to determine the expression of sigmaC protein in transgenic alfalfa cells. The highest expression levels of sigmaC protein in the cellular extracts of selected p35S-S1 and pAct1-S1 transgenic alfalfa lines were 0.008% and 0.007% of the total soluble protein, respectively. The transgenic alfalfa cells with expression of sigmaC protein pave the way for the development of edible vaccine.
16488558	The GH3 gene family in Arabidopsis, implicated in hormonal homeostasis through the conjugation of indolacetic and jasmonic acids to amino acids, is involved in a broad range of plant growth and development processes. In this work, the analysis of the GH3 family in the genome of Oryza sativa identified 13 hypothetical ORFs. EST analysis and RT-PCR assays demonstrated that 12 of them were active genes. An extensive EST analysis of the GH3 family performed on 26 plant species was used to estimate the minimum number of GH3 genes en each one. The data indicated that the members of the GH3 family progressively increased in the different plant divisions from Chlorophyta (0), Bryophyta (3), and Coniferophyta (4), to Magnoliophyta (7-19). Phylogenetic analyses showed a high degree of conservation between Arabidopsis and rice GH3 proteins and, in general, in the plant kingdom. The data revealed a homology clustering consistent with the functional classification of the Arabidopsis proteins, since most of the 110 sequences analyzed grouped into 2 main clusters, corresponding to the Arabidopsis functional groups I (jasmonic acid adenylation) and II (indolacetic acid adenylation). And additional cluster including group III (non-adenylation ability) was exclusively composed of proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica napus and Gossypium hirsutum.
16488912	To increase the beta-carotene (provitamin A) content and thus the nutritional value of Golden Rice, the optimization of the enzymes employed, phytoene synthase (PSY) and the Erwinia uredovora carotene desaturase (CrtI), must be considered. CrtI was chosen for this study because this bacterial enzyme, unlike phytoene synthase, was expressed at barely detectable levels in the endosperm of the Golden Rice events investigated. The low protein amounts observed may be caused by either weak cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter activity in the endosperm or by inappropriate codon usage. The protein level of CrtI was increased to explore its potential for enhancing the flux of metabolites through the pathway. For this purpose, a synthetic CrtI gene with a codon usage matching that of rice storage proteins was generated. Rice plants were transformed to express the synthetic gene under the control of the endosperm-specific glutelin B1 promoter. In addition, transgenic plants expressing the original bacterial gene were generated, but the endosperm-specific glutelin B1 promoter was employed instead of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Independent of codon optimization, the use of the endosperm-specific promoter resulted in a large increase in bacterial desaturase production in the T(1) rice grains. However, this did not lead to a significant increase in the carotenoid content, suggesting that the bacterial enzyme is sufficiently active in rice endosperm even at very low levels and is not rate-limiting. The endosperm-specific expression of CrtI did not affect the carotenoid pattern in the leaves, which was observed upon its constitutive expression. Therefore, tissue-specific expression of CrtI represents the better option.
16489123	Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) and nucleus-controlled fertility restoration are widespread plant reproductive features that provide useful tools to exploit heterosis in crops. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this kind of cytoplasmic-nuclear interaction remains unclear. Here, we show in rice (Oryza sativa) with Boro II cytoplasm that an abnormal mitochondrial open reading frame, orf79, is cotranscribed with a duplicated atp6 (B-atp6) gene and encodes a cytotoxic peptide. Expression of orf79 in CMS lines and transgenic rice plants caused gametophytic male sterility. Immunoblot analysis showed that the ORF79 protein accumulates specifically in microspores. Two fertility restorer genes, Rf1a and Rf1b, were identified at the classical locus Rf-1 as members of a multigene cluster that encode pentatricopeptide repeat proteins. RF1A and RF1B are both targeted to mitochondria and can restore male fertility by blocking ORF79 production via endonucleolytic cleavage (RF1A) or degradation (RF1B) of dicistronic B-atp6/orf79 mRNA. In the presence of both restorers, RF1A was epistatic over RF1B in the mRNA processing. We have also shown that RF1A plays an additional role in promoting the editing of atp6 mRNAs, independent of its cleavage function.
16489216	Eleven sequenced BACs were annotated and localized via FISH to tomato pachytene chromosomes providing the first global insights into the compositional differences of euchromatin and pericentromeric heterochromatin in this model dicot species. The results indicate that tomato euchromatin has a gene density (6.7 kb/gene) similar to that of Arabidopsis and rice. Thus, while the euchromatin comprises only 25% of the tomato nuclear DNA, it is sufficient to account for approximately 90% of the estimated 38,000 nontransposon genes that compose the tomato genome. Moreover, euchromatic BACs were largely devoid of transposons or other repetitive elements. In contrast, BACs assigned to the pericentromeric heterochromatin had a gene density 10-100 times lower than that of the euchromatin and are heavily populated by retrotransposons preferential to the heterochromatin-the most abundant transposons belonging to the Jinling Ty3/gypsy-like retrotransposon family. Jinling elements are highly methylated and rarely transcribed. Nonetheless, they have spread throughout the pericentromeric heterochromatin in tomato and wild tomato species fairly recently-well after tomato diverged from potato and other related solanaceous species. The implications of these findings on evolution and on sequencing the genomes of tomato and other solanaceous species are discussed.
16489232	As part of an initiative to develop Brachypodium distachyon as a genomic "bridge" species between rice and the temperate cereals and grasses, a BAC library has been constructed for the two diploid (2n = 2x = 10) genotypes, ABR1 and ABR5. The library consists of 9100 clones, with an approximate average insert size of 88 kb, representing 2.22 genome equivalents. To validate the usefulness of this species for comparative genomics and gene discovery in its larger genome relatives, the library was screened by PCR using primers designed on previously mapped rice and Poaceae sequences. Screening indicated a degree of synteny between these species and B. distachyon, which was confirmed by fluorescent in situ hybridization of the marker-selected BACs (BAC landing) to the 10 chromosome arms of the karyotype, with most of the BACs hybridizing as single loci on known chromosomes. Contiguous BACs colocalized on individual chromosomes, thereby confirming the conservation of genome synteny and proving that B. distachyon has utility as a temperate grass model species alternative to rice.
16489742	The "ribulose phosphate binding" superfamily defined by the Structural Classification of Proteins (SCOP) database is considered the result of divergent evolution from a common (beta/alpha)(8)-barrel ancestor. The superfamily includes d-ribulose 5-phosphate 3-epimerase (RPE), orotidine 5'-monophosphate decarboxylase (OMPDC), and 3-keto-l-gulonate 6-phosphate decarboxylase (KGPDC), members of the OMPDC suprafamily, as well as enzymes involved in histidine and tryptophan biosynthesis that utilize phosphorylated metabolites as substrates. We now report studies of the functional and structural relationships of RPE to the members of the superfamily. As suggested by the results of crystallographic studies of the RPEs from rice [Jelakovic, S., Kopriva, S., Suss, K. H., and Schulz, G. E. (2003) J. Mol. Biol. 326, 127-35] and Plasmodium falciparum [Caruthers, J., Bosch, J., Bucker, F., Van Voorhis, W., Myler, P., Worthey, E., Mehlin, C., Boni, E., De Titta, G., Luft, J., Kalyuzhniy, O., Anderson, L., Zucker, F., Soltis, M., and Hol, W. G. J. (2006) Proteins 62, 338-42], the RPE from Streptococcus pyogenes is activated by Zn(2+) which binds with a stoichiometry of one ion per polypeptide. Although wild type RPE has a high affinity for Zn(2+) and inactive apoenzyme cannot be prepared, the affinity for Zn(2+) is decreased by alanine substitutions for the two histidine residues that coordinate the Zn(2+) ion (H34A and H67A); these mutant proteins can be prepared in an inactive, metal-free form and activated by exogenous Zn(2+). The crystal structure of the RPE was solved at 1.8 A resolution in the presence of d-xylitol 5-phosphate, an inert analogue of the d-xylulose 5-phosphate substrate. This structure suggests that the 2,3-enediolate intermediate in the 1,1-proton transfer reaction is stabilized by bidentate coordination to the Zn(2+) that also is liganded to His 34, Asp 36, His 67, and Asp 176; the carboxylate groups of the Asp residues are positioned also to function as the acid/base catalysts. Although the conformation of the bound analogue resembles those of ligands bound in the active sites of OMPDC and KGPDC, the identities of the active site residues that coordinate the essential Zn(2+) and participate as acid/base catalysts are not conserved. We conclude that only the phosphate binding motif located at the ends of the seventh and eighth beta-strands of the (beta/alpha)(8)-barrel is functionally conserved among RPE, OMPDC, and KGPDC, consistent with the hypothesis that the members of the "ribulose phosphate binding" (beta/alpha)(8)-barrel "superfamily" as defined by SCOP have not evolved by evolutionary processes involving the intact (beta/alpha)(8)-barrel. Instead, this "superfamily" may result from assembly from smaller modules, including the conserved phosphate binding motif associated with the C-terminal (beta/alpha)(2)-quarter barrel.
16490261	Rice tungro, economically the most important viral disease of rice, is a complex disease caused by two morphologically and genomically dissimilar viruses, Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV), a double stranded DNA virus replicating through RNA intermediate and Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV), a single stranded RNA virus with 3' poly (A) tail. A novel multiplex RT-PCR technique for the simultaneous detection of RTBV and RTSV from the total RNA extracted from tungro-infected plants has been developed. It involves a one-step reaction initiating first strand cDNA synthesis by oligo (dT) primer with poly (A) tailed RTBV transcript and RTSV genomic RNA as template for the PCR amplification. The results indicate that adaptation of this technique will strengthen the screening for tungro resistance among rice varieties and hybrids.
16491353	Low-cost raw materials can be used to reduce significantly the production cost of polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA). In this study, extruded rice bran (ERB) and extruded cornstarch (ECS) were used as carbon sources to produce PHA by an archaea, Haloferax mediterranei, which cannot use native rice bran or cornstarch as a carbon source. By employing pH-stat control strategy to maintain pH at 6.9-7.1 in a 5-liter jar fermentor using ERB:ECS (1:8 g/g) as the major carbon source, we obtained a cell concentration of 140 g/L, PHA concentration of 77.8 g/L and PHA content of 55.6 wt.% in a repeated fed-batch fermentation. In contrast, when ECS was used as the major carbon source, we obtained 62.6 g/L cell concentration, 24.2 g/L PHA concentration and 38.7 wt.% PHA content. Under a hyper-saline condition and with no nitrogen-limitation restriction, the repeated fed-batch process can be sustained a long time for the mass production of PHA.
1649153	One hundred thirty New Zealand White x California rabbits were used to study the influence of the source of dietary fiber on several digestive criteria. Five diets were formulated to provide 10% crude fiber (CF) on a DM basis. Sixty percent of this dietary fiber was supplied by alfalfa hay, citrus pulp, beet pulp, grape marc, or rice hulls in the diets. Weights of cecal contents, cecal ammonia concentration, and molar proportion of acetic acid in diets including pulps were higher and cecal levels of DM, CP, and molar proportion of butyric acid were lower than those of the alfalfa diet. Cecal ammonia, VFA, and CF concentrations of the grape marc diet were the lowest of all the diets studied; cecal CF level and molar proportion of acetic acid were significantly higher and CP level and molar proportion of butyric acid were lower in rice hull than in alfalfa diets. Diet had no influence on daily soft feces excretion (10 g DM/d), but N contribution of soft feces to N intake was higher in the diet with citrus pulp (18.7%) than in the other diets (12%). Mean retention time (R) was measured using fuchsin-stained feed and was found to be higher (21.3 h) in the rice hull diet and lower (9.3 h) in the grape marc diet than in the other diets. When coprophagy was prevented, R decreased by 0 to 7 h. In conclusion, the use of byproducts to substitute for traditional sources of fiber in rabbit diets influenced the retention time of the digesta in some segments of the gut and thus altered several digestive criteria.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
16492467	We now have the various genomics tools for monocot (Oryza sativa) and a dicot (Arabidopsis thaliana) plant. Plant is not only a very important agricultural resource but also a model organism for biological research. It is important that the interaction between ABA and GA is investigated for controlling the transition from embryogenesis to germination in seeds using genomics tools. These studies have investigated the relationship between dormancy and germination using genomics tools. Genomics tools identified genes that had never before been annotated as ABA- or GA-responsive genes in plant, detected new interactions between genes responsive to the two hormones, comprehensively characterized cis-elements of hormone-responsive genes, and characterized cis-elements of rice and Arabidopsis. In these research, ABA- and GA-regulated genes have been classified as functional proteins (proteins that probably function in stress or PR tolerance) and regulatory proteins (protein factors involved in further regulation of signal transduction). Comparison between ABA and/or GA-responsive genes in rice and those in Arabidopsis has shown that the cis-element has specificity in each species. cis-Elements for the dehydration-stress response have been specified in Arabidopsis but not in rice. cis-Elements for protein storage are remarkably richer in the upstream regions of the rice gene than in those of Arabidopsis.
16493949	The influence of an Escherichia coli-derived phytase, on nutrient utilization was investigated in broilers fed starter diets containing different concentrations of phytate. The study was conducted as a 3 x 4 factorial arrangement of treatments with 3 concentrations of phytic acid (10.4, 11.8, and 13.6 g/kg; equivalent to 2.8, 3.3, and 3.8 g of phytate P/kg) and phytase (0, 500, 750, and 1,000 FTU/kg). One unit of phytase (FTU) is defined as the quantity of enzyme that releases 1 micromol of inorganic phosphorus/min from 0.00015 mol/L of sodium phytate at pH 5.5 at 37 degrees C. The dietary phytic acid concentrations were manipulated by the inclusion of rice bran. Increasing dietary concentrations of phytic acid resulted in reductions (P < 0.01) in AME. Phytase additions tended to increase AME (P = 0.07), regardless of dietary phytate concentrations. Apparent ileal digestibility coefficients of protein and most amino acids were influenced by phytate (P < 0.05 to 0.001) and phytase (P < 0.001). Phytase improved ileal protein and amino acid digestibility at all phytate concentrations, but the trend in responses to increasing phytase additions was different at different phytate concentrations as shown by significant phytate x phytase interactions (P < 0.01 to 0.001). At the lowest phytate concentration, the ileal digestibility coefficients increased with increasing phytase supplementation. At the medium and high phytate concentrations, the greatest responses were observed at 500 FTU/kg of phytase, with little improvement attributable to further additions. Ileal digestibility of P was lowered (P < 0.01) by increasing phytate concentrations and increased (P < 0.001) with increasing additions of phytase. A significant phytate x phytase interaction (P < 0.05) was also observed, where the improvements in P absorption with added phytase were found to be greater at high phytate concentrations. These data demonstrate the anti-nutritive effects of phytic acid and the potential of microbial phytase to improve energy utilization and the availability of P and amino acids in broilers fed starter diets.
16494747	Thailand has recently had 3 epidemic waves of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI); virus was again detected in July 2005. Risk factors need to be identified to better understand disease ecology and assist HPAI surveillance and detection. This study analyzed the spatial distribution of HPAI outbreaks in relation to poultry, land use, and other anthropogenic variables from the start of the second epidemic wave (July 2004-May 2005). Results demonstrate a strong association between H5N1 virus in Thailand and abundance of free-grazing ducks and, to a lesser extent, native chickens, cocks, wetlands, and humans. Wetlands used for double-crop rice production, where free-grazing duck feed year round in rice paddies, appear to be a critical factor in HPAI persistence and spread. This finding could be important for other duck-producing regions in eastern and southeastern Asian countries affected by HPAI.
16495225	Basal transcription of the bone sialoprotein gene is mediated by highly conserved inverted CCAAT (ICE; ATTGG) and TATA elements (TTTATA) separated by precisely 21 nucleotides. Here we studied the importance of the relative position and orientation of the CCAAT and TATA elements in the proximal promoter by measuring the transcriptional activity of a series of mutated reporter constructs in transient transfection assays. Whereas inverting the TTTATA (wild type) to a TATAAA (consensus TATA) sequence increased transcription slightly, transcription was reduced when the flanking dinucleotides were also inverted. In contrast, reversing the ATTGG (wild type; ICE) to a CCAAT (RICE) sequence caused a marked reduction in transcription, whereas both transcription and NF-Y binding were progressively increased with the simultaneous inversion of flanking nucleotides (f-RICE-f). Reducing the distance between the ICE and TATA elements produced cyclical changes in transcriptional activity that correlated with progressive alterations in the relative positions of the CCAAT and TATA elements on the face of the DNA helix. Minimal transcription was observed after 5 nucleotides were deleted (equivalent to approximately one half turn of the helix), whereas transcription was fully restored after deleting 10 nucleotides (approximately one full turn of the DNA helix), transcriptional activity being progressively lost with deletions beyond 10 nucleotides. In comparison, when deletions were made with the ICE in the reversed (f-RICE-f) orientation transcriptional activity was progressively lost with no recovery. These results show that, although transcription can still occur when the CCAAT box is reversed and/or displaced relative to the TATA box, the activity is dependent upon the flexibility of the intervening DNA helix needed to align the NF-Y complex on the CCAAT box with preinitiation complex proteins that bind to the TATA box. Thus, the precise location and orientation of the CCAAT element is necessary for optimizing basal transcription of the bone sialoprotein gene.
16495645	Synthetic studies on bioactive compounds are described, involving phytotoxins (tobacco wildfire disease toxin tabtoxinine-beta-lactam and rice blast disease toxin pyricuol) a glutarimide antibiotic (actiketal) black vomit toxin (gizzerosine) and marine products (antifeedant pteroenone and serinol compound didemniserinolipid).
16496119	Although barley and rice belong to the same family Poaceae, they differ in their ability to tolerate salt stress. In an attempt to understand the molecular bases of such differences, we compared changes in transcriptome between barley and rice in response to salt stress using barley cDNA microarrays. At 1 and 24 h after salt stress, many genes were up-regulated in barley, but not in rice. Leaf water potential declined in the first 10 h of stress in both species, but recovered in the period 24-48 h only in barley. In addition, we found that barley partitioned Na+ to the roots and away from the shoots more efficiently than rice. These differences in physiological responses were correlated with the differences in the steady-state abundance of transcripts for the genes related to adaptive functions. Transcripts for plasma membrane protein 3 and inorganic pyrophosphatase were up-regulated in both species, but only transiently in rice. This indicates that adaptive mechanisms for regulating ion homeostasis are partly conserved in the two species, but it seems that rice cannot sustain cellular ion homeostasis for a long time like barley. These results imply that genetic modification of regulatory controls of early salt-responsive genes might lead to development of the salt tolerance trait in rice.
16496151	Polysaccharide-linked hydroxycinnamoyl esters (PHEs) over-accumulate in the internodes of a rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutant, Fukei 71 (F71). This accumulation is accompanied by over-expression of phenylalanine ammonialyase (PAL). In this study, we show that only one member of the 3-deoxy-D-arabino-heptulosonate 7-phosphate synthase (DAHPS) family expresses in close correlation with PAL. Furthermore, substrate availability to DAHPS is promoted by down-regulating the expression of plastidic pyruvate kinase (PKp), a competitor of DAHPS. Since the over-production of PHEs is caused by D50 gene disruption, these results suggest that specific enzymes in the phenylpropanoid and shikimate pathways are coordinately up-regulated. In addition, the results indicate that carbon-flow into the shikimate pathway is modified for the synthesis of PHEs, and is probably controlled by D50.
16496571	A chromogenic agar, R&F Enterobacter sakazakii chromogenic plating medium (ESPM), was developed for isolating presumptive colonies of E. sakazakii from foods and environmental sources. ESPM contains two chromogenic substrates (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoxyl-alpha-D-glucopyranoside and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoxyl-beta-D-cellobioside), three sugars (sorbitol, D-arabitol, and adonitol), a pH indicator, and inhibitors (bile salts, vancomycin, and cefsulodin), which all contribute to its selectivity and differential properties. On ESPM, 79 pure culture strains of E. sakazakii (10 clinical isolates and others from food and environmental sources) yielded blue-black (three strains were blue-gray) raised colonies, 1 to 2 mm in diameter with and without halos after 24 h at 35 degrees C. Other enteric organisms plus Pseudomonas aeruginosa yielded white, yellow, green, or clear colonies with and without clear halos. Of these genera, only Shigella sonnei and one Pantoea strain produced blue-black to blue-gray colonies. ESPM was used to isolate E. sakazakii from a variety of foods: corn, wheat, and rice flours; powdered infant formula; dairy products (dried milk, whey, and caseinates); cereals; and environmental sources. Most false-positive results on ESPM were eliminated by observing acid production on either sucrose or melibiose after 6 h at 35 degrees C on a R&F E. sakazakii screening medium (ESSM) biplate. In an analysis of 240 samples, the number of samples positive for E. sakazakii by the ESPM-ESSM method and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration protocols (violet red bile glucose agar and tryptic soy agar) were 27 and 16, respectively, with sensitivity and specificity values of 100.0 and 96.9% versus 59.3 and 43.7%, respectively. These data support the fact that E. sakazakii confirmation should be based on more than one confirmation system. Both the API 20E and Biolog Microlog3 4.20 systems should be used for confirmation of E. sakazakii isolates.
16498359	The aim of this paper is to focus the attention on the role of rice not only as food, but as a natural dietetic product. In fact, a regular intake of rice may contribute to the well-being of subjects due to the particular positive qualities of this food (high digeribility, high biological value of amino acids, high content of EFA, positive sodium/chloride rate, high content of selenium and silicium, antihypertensive effect) which have been scientifically confirmed. Stress is laid on the particular nutritional composition of rice, underlying the dietetic usefulness of this food and the new frontiers of rice as functional food.
16498465	Eight resistance-gene analogs (RGAs) were isolated from wild rice, Zizania latifolia Griseb., by degenerate primers designed according to conserved motifs at or around the nucleotide-binding site (NBS) of known NBS-containing plant resistance genes. The 8 RGAs were classified into 6 distinct groups based on their deduced amino acid sequence similarity of 60% or greater. Gel-blot hybridization of each of the RGAs to 4 rice - Z. latifolia intro gression lines indicated an array of changes at either introgressed Zizania RGAs or, more likely, their rice homologs. The changes included dramatic increase in copy number, modification at the primary DNA sequence, and alteration in DNA methylation patterns.
16499641	Children allergic to cow's milk are fed a soy- or a hydrolysed cow's milk-based substitute. Neither can rule out a sensitization risk. Previous studies have shown that hydrolysed rice is tolerated by animals and children with multiple food hypersensitivities. A prospective clinical assessment of tolerance to a rice-based hydrolysed formula was carried out in children allergic to cow's milk. Patients and methods One hundred children (42 girls and 58 boys, mean age 3.17+/-2.93 years, median 2.20, range 0.18-14.6 years) with a history of immediate reactions to cow's milk and confirmed at double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenge (DBPCFC) when not contraindicated were assessed for clinical tolerance to cow's milk proteins. Their allergy work-up included skin prick tests with whole milk, alpha-lactalbumin (ALA), beta-lactoglobulin (BLG) and total caseins, and specific IgE determinations using CAP technology were performed against whole milk, ALA, BLG and casein. Sensitization to rice and rice-based hydrolysed formula was similarly investigated. Patients' sera were evaluated at immunoblotting for specific IgE to cow's milk proteins, rice and rice-based hydrolysed formula. DBPCFC was carried out with increasing doses of a rice-based hydrolysed formula. All patients were sensitized to cow's milk and/or at least one cow's milk protein fraction. Eighty-seven out of 99 were positive to cow's milk and/or a cow's milk protein fraction at skin prick test. Positive (>0.35 kUA/L) specific IgE determinations were found for cow's milk and/or milk fractions (92/95), rice (21/91) and hydrolysed rice infant formula (4/91). At immunoblotting, sera from 96 children were positive to alpha-casein (n=54), beta-casein (n=38), ALA (n=57), BLG (n=37) and bovine serum albumin (n=61). Similarly, although patients' sera often contained specific IgE against rice proteins at CAP (21/91) and immunoblotting (70/96), only six very weakly positive responses were observed against rice-based hydrolysed formula. All DBPCFC with rice-based hydrolysed formula were negative. Rice-based hydrolysed formula is a possible alternative not only for children with multiple allergies, but also for children with cow's milk allergy.
16499948	A glasshouse pot experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of the fungicide chlorothalonil on the growth of upland rice, in the absence or presence of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus (AMF) Glomus mosseae (NM and GM treatments). The plants were grown with three concentrations of chlorothalonil (0, 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) soil). Mycorrhizal colonization decreased significantly with increasing chlorothalonil concentrations. Plant biomass decreases were smaller in GM plants than in non-mycorrhizal (NM) plants. Mycorrhizal dependency was the highest with 50 mg kg(-1) chlorothalonil. Chlorothalonil affected physiological processes in upland rice irrespective of inoculation. Chlorothalonil at 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) increased ascorbate peroxidase (APX) activity and soluble protein concentrations in shoots and roots of NM upland rice. However, values of APX, catalase (CAT) and peroxidase (POD) were reduced more in GM plants than in NM plants. These results showed that chlorothalonil induced oxidative stress in upland rice and it is needed to evaluate the side effects of chlorothalonil on rice and AMF.
16499984	Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) based on small subunit rRNA gene was applied to a traditional rice vinegar fermentation process in which the conversion of rice starch into acetic acid proceeded in a pot. The fungal DGGE profile indicated that the transition from Aspergillus oryzae to Saccharomyces sp. took place at the initial stage at which alcohol production was observed. The early stage was characterized by the coexistence of Saccharomyces sp. and lactic acid bacteria. Almost all of the bacterial DGGE bands related to lactic acid bacteria were replaced by bands derived from Lactobacillus acetotolerance and Acetobacter pasteurianus at the stage at which acetic acid started to accumulate. The microbial succession, tested in three different pots, was found to be essentially identical. Among the bacteria isolated at the early stage, some species differed from those detected by DGGE. This is the first report to reveal the microbial community succession that occurs during a unique vinegar fermentation process, as determined by a culture-independent method.
16500726	Abiotic stress is a major limiting factor in crop production. Physiological comparisons between contrasting abiotic stress-tolerant genotypes will improve understanding of stress-tolerant mechanisms. Rice seedlings (S3 stage) of a chilling-tolerant (CT) genotype (CT6748-8-CA-17) and a chilling-sensitive (CS) genotype (INIAP12) were subjected to abiotic stresses including chilling (13/12 degrees C), salt (100mM NaCl), and osmotic (200mM mannitol). Measures of physiological response to the stresses included changes in stress-related sugars, oxidative products and protective enzymes, parameters that could be used as possible markers for selection of improved tolerant varieties. Metabolite analyses showed that the two genotypes responded differently to different stresses. Genotype survival under chilling-stress was as expected, however, CT was more sensitive to salt stress than the CS genotype. The CT genotype was able to maintain membrane integrity better than CS, perhaps by reduction of lipid peroxidation via increased levels of antioxidant enzymes during chilling stress. This genotype accumulated sugars in response to stress, but the accumulation was usually less than in the CS genotype. Chill-stressed CT accumulated galactose and raffinose whereas these saccharides declined in CS. On the other hand, the tolerance mechanism in the more salt- and water-deficit-tolerant CS may be associated with accumulation of osmoprotectants such as glucose, trehalose and mannitol.
16500989	The molecular basis of salt tolerance of L-myo-inositol 1-P synthase (MIPS; EC 5.5.1.4) from Porteresia coarctata (Roxb.) Tateoka (PcINO1, AF412340) earlier reported from this laboratory, has been analyzed by in vitro mutant and hybrid generation and subsequent biochemical and biophysical studies of the recombinant proteins. A 37-amino acid stretch between Trp-174 and Ser-210 has been confirmed as the salt-tolerance determinant domain in PcINO1 both by loss or gain of salt tolerance by either deletion or by addition to salt-sensitive MIPS(s) of Oryza (OsINO1) and Brassica juncea (BjINO1). This was further verified by growth analysis under salt environment of Schizosaccharomyces pombe transformed with the various gene constructs and studies on the differential behavior of mutant and wild proteins by Trp fluorescence, aggregation, and circular dichroism spectra in the presence of salt. 4,4'-Dianilino-1,1'-binaphthyl-5,5-disulfonic acid binding experiments revealed a lower hydrophobic surface on PcINO1 than OsINO1, contributed by this 37-amino acid stretch explaining the differential behavior of OsINO1 and PcINO1 both with respect to their enzymatic functions and thermodynamic stability in high salt environment. Detailed amino acid sequence comparison and modeling studies revealed the interposition of polar and charged residues and a well-connected hydrogen-bonding network formed by Ser and Thr in this stretch of PcINO1. On the contrary, hydrophobic residues clustered in two continuous stretches in the corresponding region of OsINO1 form a strong hydrophobic patch on the surface. It is conceivable that salt-tolerant MIPS proteins may be designed out of the salt-sensitive plant MIPS proteins by replacement of the corresponding amino acid stretch by the designated 37-amino acid stretch of PcINO1.
16500991	Plants and animals share similar mechanisms in the heat shock (HS) response, such as synthesis of the conserved HS proteins (Hsps). However, because plants are confined to a growing environment, in general they require unique features to cope with heat stress. Here, we report on the analysis of the function of a novel Hsp, heat-stress-associated 32-kD protein (Hsa32), which is highly conserved in land plants but absent in most other organisms. The gene responds to HS at the transcriptional level in moss (Physcomitrella patens), Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and rice (Oryza sativa). Like other Hsps, Hsa32 protein accumulates greatly in Arabidopsis seedlings after HS treatment. Disruption of Hsa32 by T-DNA insertion does not affect growth and development under normal conditions. However, the acquired thermotolerance in the knockout line was compromised following a long recovery period (>24 h) after acclimation HS treatment, when a severe HS challenge killed the mutant but not the wild-type plants, but no significant difference was observed if they were challenged within a short recovery period. Quantitative hypocotyl elongation assay also revealed that thermotolerance decayed faster in the absence of Hsa32 after a long recovery. Similar results were obtained in Arabidopsis transgenic plants with Hsa32 expression suppressed by RNA interference. Microarray analysis of the knockout mutant indicates that only the expression of Hsa32 was significantly altered in HS response. Taken together, our results suggest that Hsa32 is required not for induction but rather maintenance of acquired thermotolerance, a feature that could be important to plants.
16501255	Prenylation of the aromatic intermediate p-hydroxybenzoate (PHB) is a critical step in ubiquinone (UQ) biosynthesis. The enzyme that catalyzes this prenylation reaction is p-hydroxybenzoate polyprenyltransferase (PPT), which substitutes an aromatic proton at the m-position of PHB with a prenyl chain provided by polyprenyl diphosphate synthase. The rice genome contains three PPT candidates that share significant similarity with the yeast PPT (COQ2 gene), and the rice gene showing the highest similarity to COQ2 was isolated by reverse transcription-PCR and designated OsPPT1a. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsPPT1a contained a putative mitochondrial sorting signal at the N-terminus and conserved domains for putative substrate-binding sites typical of PPT protein family members. The subcellular localization of OsPPT1a protein was shown to be mainly in mitochondria based on studies using a green fluorescent protein-PPT fusion. A yeast complementation study revealed that OsPPT1a expression successfully recovered the growth defect of the coq2 mutant. A prenyltransferase assay using recombinant protein showed that OsPPT1a accepted prenyl diphosphates of various chain lengths as prenyl donors, whereas it showed strict substrate specificity for the aromatic substrate PHB as a prenyl acceptor. The apparent K (m) values for geranyl diphosphate and PHB were 59.7 and 6.04 microM, respectively. The requirement by OsPPT1a and COQ2 for divalent cations was also studied, with Mg2+ found to produce the highest enzyme activity. Northern analysis showed that OsPPT1a mRNA was accumulated in all tissues of O. sativa. These results suggest that OsPPT1a is a functional PPT involved in UQ biosynthesis in O. sativa.
16501940	To individuate candidate genes (CGs) for a set of barley developmental mutants, a synteny approach comparing the genomes of barley and rice has been introduced. Based on map positions of mutants, sequenced RFLP markers linked to the target loci were selected. The markers were mapped in silico by BLAST searches against the rice genome sequence and chromosomal regions syntenous to barley target intervals were identified. Rice syntenous regions were defined for 15 barley chromosomal intervals hosting 23 mutant loci affecting plant height (brh1; brh2; sld4), shoot and inflorescence branching (als; brc1; cul-2, -3, -5, -15, -16; dub1; mnd6; vrs1), development of leaves (lig) and leaf-like organs (cal-b19, -C15, -d4; lks5; suKD-25; suKE-74; suKF-76; trd; trp). Annotation of 110 Mb of rice genomic sequence made it possible to screen for putative CGs which are listed together with the reasons supporting mutant-gene associations. For two loci, CGs were identified with a clear probability to represent the locus considered. These include FRIZZY PANICLE, a candidate for the brc1 barley mutant, and the rice ortholog of maize Liguleless1 (Lg1), a candidate for the barley lig locus on chromosome 2H. For this locus, the validity of the approach was supported by the PCR-amplification of a genomic fragment of the orthologous barley sequence. SNP mapping located this fragment on chromosome 2H in the region hosting the lig genetic locus.
16502291	Bacillus megaterium C4, a nitrogen-fixing bacterium, was marked with the gfp gene. Maize and rice seedlings were inoculated with the, GFP-labeled B. megaterium C4 and then grown in gnotobiotic condition. Observation by confocal laser scanning microscope showed that the GFP-labeled bacterial cells infected the maize roots through the cracks formed at the lateral root junctions and then penetrated into cortex, xylem, and pith, and that the bacteria migrated slowly from roots to stems and leaves. The bacteria were mainly located in the intercellular spaces, although a few bacterial cells were also present within the xylem vessels, root hair cells, epidermis, cortical parenchyma, and pith cells. In addition, microscopic observation also revealed clearly that the root tip in the zone of elongation and differentiation and the junction between the primary and the lateral roots were the two sites for the bacteria entry into rice root. Therefore, we conclude that this Gram-positive nitrogen-fixer has a colonization pattern similar to those of many Gram-negative diazotrophs, such as Azospirillun brasilense Yu62 and Azoarcus sp. As far as we know, this is the first detailed report of the colonization pattern for Gram-positive diazotrophic Bacillus.
16502507	Two sulfonylurea herbicides, metsulfuron methyl (Ally 20 WP) and chlorimuron ethyl (Classic 25 WP) were evaluated for their dissipation behaviour in alluvial, coastal saline and laterite soils under laboratory incubated condition at 60% water holding capacity of soils and 30 degrees C temperature was maintained. In field study herbicides were applied twice for the control of grasses, annual and perennials broad leaves weeds and sedges in rice, wheat and soybean to find out the residual fate of both the herbicides on different matrices of respective crops after harvest. Extraction and clean up methodologies for the herbicides were standardized and subsequently analyzed by HPLC. The study revealed that the half-lives of metsulfuron methyl and chlorimuron ethyl ranged from 10.75 to 13.94 d irrespective of soils and doses applied. Field trials with rice, wheat and soybean also revealed that these two herbicides could safely be recommended for application as no residues were detected in the harvest samples.
16502572
16503290	The diversity and succession of microbial communities during the garbage composting with rice hull as an amendment were studied by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and clone library analysis of PCR-amplified 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) with universal primers. Based on temperature changes, the composting process could be divided into thermophilic, cooling-down, and maturing stages. The DGGE profiles and clone library analysis revealed that the microbial community drastically changed during the composting process from the thermophilic to the maturing stages. The dominant bacterial group changed from the phylum Firmicutes in the thermophilic stage to the phylum Bacteroidetes in the maturing stage. This change in microbial communities may be significant for the composting process. The diversity of cultivated bacteria isolated from samples taken at various stages of the composting process was low. A total of 87 isolates were classified as belonging to only four different groups. These groups were also detected in the DGGE profiles and by the clone library analysis. Our study indicated that a combination of culture-dependent and -independent approaches could be very useful for monitoring both bacterial diversity and the succession of communities during the composting process. This study would be beneficial for assessing the ecological consequences of disposal of organic waste.
16503557	The growing interest in the prevention role of selenium in certain degenerative diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease has fostered research on natural sources of selenium. In this research, total selenium concentrations in over 120 items of selected Japanese foods were determined. The selenium concentration was measured fluorometrically by measurement of the fluorescence of piazselenol resulting from the reaction of selenite with 2, 3-diaminonaphtalene. The selenium level in rice, which is the staple food consumed in Japan, is lower than the other countries. But the mean levels of selenium in meat and fish products are among the highest values reported in other countries. Although the numbers of samples of selected foods analyzed are small, the results describe the picture of the selenium level of Japanese foods.
16503559	It has been reported that mixed meals are used in clinics in developing and developed countries in screening and diagnosis of diabetes. Thus, we aimed to determine the differences in 2-h plasma glucose values after non-diabetic subjects ingested 75 g pure glucose and its equivalent content in frequently consumed carbohydrate foods in Caribbean subjects. Twenty-seven apparently healthy non-diabetic subjects (nine males, 18 females) consumed 75 g pure glucose and its carbohydrate equivalent in three ethnic test foods (bread, rice and roti) at 7 days apart. Plasma glucose and insulin levels were determined in blood samples collected before and after 60, 90, 120 and 150 min of ingestion of these foods. In comparison with each of the test foods, the postprandial 1-h and 2-h plasma glucose values and the 60, 90, 120 and 150 min incremental glucose concentrations after oral glucose load were significantly higher than the corresponding values for each of the test foods (all P<0.01). In spite of these higher postprandial glucose concentrations, the postprandial insulin responses following the oral glucose load and the test foods did not significantly differ at any time point (all P>0.05). However, the test food, roti, tended to stimulate higher absolute and incremental insulin secretions than pure glucose or any other test food (all P>0.05). Generally, the correlation between 2-h plasma glucose value after the ingestion of the pure glucose and each of the test foods was significant (all correlation coefficients were greater than 0.70, P<0.01). In conclusion, different ethnic mixed meals could serve as an alternative to glucose in routine screening and diagnosis of diabetes if its available carbohydrate content is known and quantified.
16504046	The glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3)/SHAGGY-like kinases (GSKs) are non-receptor serine/threonine protein kinases that are involved in a variety of biological processes. In contrast to the two members of the GSK3 family in mammals, plants appear to have a much larger set of divergent GSK genes. Plant GSKs are encoded by a multigene family; analysis of the Arabidopsis genome revealed the existence of 10 GSK genes that fall into four major groups. Here we characterized the structure of Arabidopsis and rice GSK genes and conducted the first broad phylogenetic analysis of the plant GSK gene family, covering a taxonomically diverse array of algal and land plant sequences. We found that the structure of GSK genes is generally conserved in Arabidopsis and rice, although we documented examples of exon expansion and intron loss. Our phylogenetic analyses of 139 sequences revealed four major clades of GSK genes that correspond to the four subgroups initially recognized in Arabidopsis. ESTs from basal angiosperms were represented in all four major clades; GSK homologs from the basal angiosperm Persea americana (avocado) appeared in all four clades. Gymnosperm sequences occurred in clades I, III, and IV, and a sequence of the red alga Porphyra was sister to all green plant sequences. Our results indicate that (1) the plant-specific GSK gene lineage was established early in the history of green plants, (2) plant GSKs began to diversify prior to the origin of extant seed plants, (3) three of the four major clades of GSKs present in Arabidopsis and rice were established early in the evolutionary history of extant seed plants, and (4) diversification into four major clades (as initially reported in Arabidopsis) occurred either just prior to the origin of the angiosperms or very early in angiosperm history.
16505587	There has been a significant increase in the prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in Vietnam. We found that Vietnamese with T2DM had a normal body mass index (BMI), but high levels of total body fat and abdominal fat. Based on published reports together with our own findings, we believe that a sedentary lifestyle and an abundance of starchy foods and also Western style energy-rich foods are factors associated with disease. The staple food of the Vietnamese is still polished-rice which has high glycemic index values. In addition, a Westernized diet, and the chronic consumption of high-glycemic index foods together with a sedentary lifestyle result in insulin resistance and diabetes. The average BMI of T2DM patients is <or= 23 kg/m(2), greater than that 20 years ago. In addition,these patients have high levels of body fat, especially abdominal fat, measured as the waist to hip ratio (WHR >or= 0.90). We therefore, tentatively suggest a BMI of 23 kg/m(2) together with a WHR of 0.90 for males and 0.85 for females as new cutoff values for the risk of T2DM in Vietnamese. These findings have important implications for primary prevention because they indicate that screening and intervention should focus on high-risk populations.
16505997	We have developed a transiently-expressed transposase (TET)-mediated Dissociation (Ds) insertional mutagenesis system for generating stable insertion lines in rice which will allow localized mutagenesis of a chromosomal region. In this system, a Ds containing T-DNA construct was used to produce Ds launch pad lines. Callus tissues, from single-copy Ds/T-DNA lines, were then transiently infected with Agrobacterium harbouring an immobile Ac (iAc) construct, also containing a green fluorescent protein gene (sgfpS65T) as the visual marker. We have regenerated stable Ds insertion lines at a frequency of 9-13% using selection for Ds excision and GFP counter selection against iAc and nearly half of them were unique insertion lines. Double transformants (iAc/Ds) were also obtained and their progeny yielded approximately 10% stable insertion lines following excision and visual marker screening with 50% redundancy. In general, more than 50% of the Ds reinsertions were within 1 cM of the launch pad. We have produced a large number of single-copy Ds/T-DNA launch pads distributed over the rice chromosomes and have further refined the Ds/T-DNA construct to enrich for "clean" single-copy T-DNA insertions. The availability of single copy "clean" Ds/T-DNA launch pads will facilitate chromosomal region-directed insertion mutagenesis. This system provides an opportunity for distribution of gene tagging tasks among collaborating laboratories on the basis of chromosomal locations.
16506311	Among the ABC transporters, the pleiotropic drug resistance (PDR) family is particular in that its members are found only in fungi and plants and have a reverse domain organization, i.e., the nucleotide binding domain precedes the transmembrane domain. In Arabidopsis and rice, for which the full genome has been sequenced, the family of plant ABC transporters contains 15 and 23 PDR genes, respectively, which can be tentatively organized using the sequence data into five subfamilies. Most of the plant PDR genes so far characterized belong to subfamily I and have been shown to be involved in responses to abiotic and biotic stress, in the latter case, probably by transporting antimicrobial secondary metabolites to the cell surface. Only a single subfamily II member has been characterized. Induction of its expression by iron deficiency suggests its involvement in iron deficiency stress, thus, enlightening a new physiological role for a PDR gene.
16506548	Vector of JE, Culex vishnui group, prefer to breed in rice field. During the present study, roles of some factors like irrigation, manuring, pesticide application, rainfall, temperature and pH of the breeding water, depth of breeding water and height of paddy plants on breeding of Culex vishnui group larvae have been studied. It is evident from the study that besides striking role of the factors like manuring and pesticide application, other factors have also some role on the breeding of JE vectors at their breeding sites.
16506570	Three Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (BTi) formulations, the bacterial metabolite spinosad, and 7 synthetic insecticides were bioassayed against 4th instars of Chironomus tepperi, a serious pest of rice in southern Australia. The BTi formulations returned 48-h product median lethal concentration (LC50) values (25 < or = 1 degrees C) of between 0.59 mg/liter (VectoBac water-dispersible granule [WDG], 3,000 international toxic units [ITU]/mg) and 2.15 mg/liter (Teknar suspension concentrate [SC], 1,200 ITU/mg). When LC50 values were adjusted to reflect nominal ITU values of the 3 products, there was still substantial variation, with LC50 values ranging from 1,770 ITU/liter (VectoBac WDG) to 2,580 ITU/liter (Teknar SC). Aquabac SC (1,200 ITU/mg) showed intermediate activity. Differential activity between formulations may reflect faster settling rates in the more active formulations, which may be a beneficial characteristic when controlling benthic species such as C. tepperi. Spinosad (24-h LC50 = 28.9 microg active ingredient [AI]/liter) and the synthetic insecticides we evaluated were all substantially more active than BTi. The highest activity was shown by the neonicotinoid compounds thiacloprid, acetamiprid, and clothianidin, which all returned 24-h LC50 values between 1 and 3 microg AI/liter. Indoxacarb and thiomethoxam showed the lowest activity of the synthetic compounds evaluated.
16506573	Mosquito collections were carried out in August 2002 and July 2003 in Japan. Anopheles sinensis of the Hyrcanus Group, Myzomyia Series of Anopheles, was the most common species encountered. The distribution and habitats of 5 Anopheles Hyrcanus Group species are included. Eight species belonging to Aedes, Culex, and Uranotaenia were found associated with An. sinensis in rice paddies and a variety of other larval habitats.
16506657	In 2000-2002, the effects of environmental cadmium (Cd) exposure on renal tubular function were investigated in men and women born between January 1, 1946 and December 31, 1955, and living in the Cd-polluted Jinzu River basin in Toyama. It is assumed that these generations had been exposed to Cd mainly through the consumption of rice and vegetables grown locally, in contrast to older generations who had been exposed not only through the consumption of rice but also by drinking river water polluted with Cd discharged from a mine. Morning urine specimens, self-administered questionnaires and polished rice samples consumed daily were collected from 110 men and 121 women living in the polluted area and from 48 men and 45 women living in the reference area. Urinary Cd excretion level, an indicator of Cd accumulation in the kidneys, significantly increased with increased duration (years) of residence in the Cd-polluted area in both men and women. There was no case of urinary beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG) level exceeding 1,000 microg/g Cr in either sex, in contrast to the high prevalence of beta2-MGuria observed in older generations. However, urinary beta2-MG and alpha1-MG levels were slightly but significantly increased with increased duration (years) of residence in the Cd-polluted area in women. The results indicate that men and women born between 1946 and 1955 and living in the Cd-polluted Jinzu River basin had Cd accumulation in the kidneys and a slight increase in urinary low-molecular weight protein level due to this accumulation.
16506829	The interaction between protein and phytate was investigated in vitro using proteins extracted from five common feedstuffs and from casein. The appearance of naturally present soluble protein-phytate complexes in the feedstuffs, the formation of complexes at different pHs, and the degradation of these complexes by pepsin and/or phytase were studied. Complexes of soluble proteins and phytate in the extracts appeared in small amounts only, with the possible exception of rice pollards. Most proteins dissolved almost completely at pH 2, but not after addition of phytate. Phytase prevented precipitation of protein with phytate. Pepsin could release protein from a precipitate, but the rate of release was increased by phytase. Protein was released faster from a protein-phytate complex when phytase was added, but phytase did not hydrolyze protein. Protein was released from the complex and degraded when both pepsin and phytase were added. It appears that protein-phytate complexes are mainly formed at low pH, as occurs in the stomach of animals. Phytase prevented the formation of the complexes and aided in dissolving them at a faster rate. This might positively affect protein digestibility in animals.
16506853	Effect of dietary supplementation of two types of rice bran fraction on blood pressure (BP), lipid profile, and glucose metabolism in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats was studied. Male 4-week-old rats were divided into one group fed the AIN-93M-based control (C) diet and two groups fed diet supplemented with 60 g/kg of Driselase and ethanol fractions (DF and EF, respectively) of rice bran. After 8 weeks feeding, the BP decreased in the DF and EF groups in comparison with the C group (p < 0.01). Plasma ACE inhibitory activity, BUN, BUN/creatinine ratio, albumin, triglyceride, and glucose levels were lower in the DF and EF groups than in the C group (p < 0.01). Plasma nitric oxide and urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine levels were lower in the DF and EF groups than in the C group (p < 0.01). Rice bran fractions appear to have a beneficial dietary component that improves hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and hyperglycemia.
16507170	Simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in DNA have been traditionally thought of as functionally unimportant and have been studied mainly as genetic markers. A recent handful of studies have shown, however, that SSRs in different positions of a gene can play important roles in determining protein function, genetic development, and regulation of gene expression. We have performed a detailed comparative study of the distribution of SSRs in the sequenced genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. SSRs in different genic regions - 5'untranslated region (UTR), 3'UTR, exon, and intron - show distinct patterns of distribution both within and between the two genomes. Especially notable is the much higher density of SSRs in 5'UTRs compared to the other regions and a strong affinity towards trinucleotide repeats in these regions for both rice and Arabidopsis. On a genomic level, mononucleotide repeats are the most prevalent type of SSRs in Arabidopsis and trinucleotide repeats are the most prevalent type in rice. Both plants have the same most common mononucleotide (A/T) and dinucleotide (AT and AG) repeats, but have little in common for the other types of repeats. Our work provides insight into the evolution and distribution of SSRs in the two sequenced model plant genomes of monocots and dicots. Our analyses reveal that the distributions of SSRs appear highly non-random and vary a great deal in different regions of the genes in the genomes.
16508643	This study investigates the effects of a late evening snack (LES), of 200 kcal of rice ball, on energy metabolism in cirrhotic patients. Impaired nutritional metabolism has been associated with cirrhosis, and frequent intake of small meals may prevent early-onset starvation, and maintain nourishment in these patients. Twenty-one cirrhotic patients and 26 control subjects (Control) were recruited for this study. Patients were subsequently treated by LES (LC-LES) and by a non-LES regimen (LC-NLES). Resting energy expenditure and respiratory quotient (RQ) were assessed by indirect calorimetry at 0830, 1130 and 1430. Blood glucose and non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) were measured just before the energy metabolism measurements. The regular diet included three major meals and LES, at 0900, 1200, 1800 and 2100, respectively. The Control and LC-NLES groups received only the major meals, whereas the LC-LES group received three meals plus 200 kcal LES for 7 days. There was no difference in the total energy intake among Control, LC-NLES and LC-LES groups. Respiratory quotient in LC-NLES was significantly lower than that of Control at 0830. Respiratory quotient value in LC-LES significantly elevated from that in LC-NLES. The RQ values did not differ among Control, LC-NLES and LC-LES at 2 h after the meal (1130 and 1430). Non-esterified fatty acids in LC-LES were lower than that in LC-NLES after overnight fasting. The ingestion of a 200 kcal rice ball LES can improve the nutritional metabolism in cirrhotic patients.
1650907	To develop a transposon tagging system in an important cereal plant, rice (Oryza sativa L.), the maize transposable element Ac (Activator) was introduced into rice protoplasts by electroporation. We employed a phenotypic assay for excision of Ac from the selectable hph gene encoding resistance to hygromycin B. Southern blot analysis of hygromycin B-resistant calli showed that the Ac element can transpose from the introduced hph gene into the rice chromosomes. Sequence analysis of several Ac excision sites in the hph genes revealed sequence alterations characteristic of the excision sites of this plant transposable element. The Ac element appears to be active during development of transgenic rice plants from calli. Moreover, hybridization patterns of different leaves from the same plant indicated that some Ac elements are stable whereas others are able to transpose further during development of leaves. The results indicate that the introduced Ac element can transpose efficiently in transgenic rice plants.
16509319	Chlorpyrifos-methyl is widely used in the control of insects on certain stored grain, including wheat, barley, oats, rice, and sorghum. The reactions of chlorpyrifos-methyl with hydrogensulfide/bisulfide (H2S/HS-), polysulfides (Sn(2-)), thiophenolate (PhS-), and thiosulfate (S2O3(2-)) were examined in well-defined aqueous solutions over a pH range from 5 to 9. The rates are first-order in the concentration of the different reduced sulfur species. The resulting data indicate that chlorpyrifos-methyl undergoes a S(N)2 reaction with the reduced sulfur species. The transformation products indicate that the nucleophilic substitution of reduced sulfur species occurs at the carbon atom of a methoxy group to form the desmethyl chlorpyrifos-methyl. The formation of trichloropyridinol, a minor degradation product, could be attributed entirelyto hydrolysis. The reaction of chlorpyrifos-methyl with thiophenolate leads to the formation of the corresponding methylated sulfur compound. The resulting pseudo-first-order rate constant for chlorpyrifos-methyl with bisulfide yielded a second-order rate constant of 2.2 (+/- 0.1) x 10(-3) M(-1) s(-1). The determined second-order rate constants show that the reaction of chlorpyrifos-methyl with HS- is of the same order of magnitude as the reaction of chlorpyrifos-methyl with S2O3(2-) with a second-order rate constant of 1.0 (+/- 0.1) x 10(-3) M(-1) s(-1). The second-order rate constant for chlorpyrifos-methyl with polysulfides (3.1 (+/- 0.3) x 10(-2) M(-1) s(-1)) is of the same order of magnitude as the one with thiophenolate (2.1 (+/- 0.2) x 10(-2) M(-1) s(-1)). The second-order rate constant for the reaction of polysulfides is approximately 1 order of magnitude greater than that for the reaction with HS-. When the determined second-order rate constants are multiplied by the concentration of HS-, polysulfides and thiosulfate reported in salt marshes and porewaters, predicted half-lives show that the inorganic reduced sulfur species present at environmentally relevant concentrations may represent an important sink for phosphorothionate triesters in coastal marine environments.
16509631	High-level ab initio calculations were carried out on a series of K+.X cluster ions (X = O, O2, N2, CO2, H2O) and X.K+.Y ions. Rice-Ramsberger-Kassel-Markus theory was then used to estimate the rate coefficients for a series of recombination and ligand-switching reactions that govern the ion-molecule chemistry of K+ in the upper mesosphere and lower thermosphere. These rate coefficients were then included in an atmospheric model of potassium chemistry. The important result is that K+ forms weakly bound clusters with N2, O2, and O (the major atmospheric species), with binding energies between 10 and 22 kJ mol(-1). Even under atmospheric conditions (200 K and 10(-3) Torr), these cluster dissociate in less than 1 s. This prevents the formation by ligand-switching of the more stable CO2 and H2O clusters, which could then undergo dissociative recombination with electrons to produce K. The result is that K+ ions have a much longer lifetime against neutralization in the upper atmosphere than other metallic ions such as Na+ and Fe+.
16509648	The kinetics of the CH2CHO + O2 reaction was experimentally studied in two quasi-static reactors and a discharge flow-reactor at temperatures ranging from 298 to 660 K and pressures between 1 mbar and 46 bar with helium as the bath gas. The CH2CHO radicals were produced by the laser-flash photolysis of ethyl vinyl ether at 193 nm and by the reaction F + CH3CHO, respectively. Laser-induced fluorescence excited at 337 or 347.4 nm was used to monitor the CH2CHO concentration. The reaction proceeded via reversible complex formation with subsequent isomerization and fast decomposition: CH2CHO + O2 <= => O2CH2CHO --> HO2CH2CO --> products. The rate coefficients for the first and second steps were determined (k1, k-1, k2) and analyzed by a master equation with specific rate coefficients from the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory. Molecular and transition-state parameters were obtained from quantum chemical calculations. A third-law analysis led to the following thermodynamic parameters for the first step: Delta(R)S degrees 300K(1) = -144 J K(-1) mol(-1) (1 bar) and Delta(R)H degrees 300K(1) = (-101 +/- 4) kJ mol(-1). From the falloff analysis, the following temperature dependencies for the low- and high-pressure limiting rate coefficients were obtained: k1(0) = 5.14 x 10(-14) exp(210 K/T) cm(-3) s(-1); k1(infinity) = 1.7 x 10(-12) exp(-520 K/T) cm(-3) s(-1); and k2(infinity) = 1.3 x 10(12) exp[-(82 +/- 4) kJ mol(-1)/RT] s(-1). Readily applicable analytical representations for the pressure and temperature dependence of k1 were derived to be used in kinetic modeling.
16510513	Glycine betaine (GB) is a compatible solute that is also capable of stabilizing the structure and function of macromolecules. Several GB-producing transgenic rice lines were generated in which the Arthrobacter pascens choline oxidase (COX) gene, fused to a chloroplast targeting sequence (TP) was expressed under the control of an ABA-inducible promoter (SIP; stress-inducible promoter) or a ubiquitin (UBI) gene promoter that is considered to be constitutive. This comparison led to interesting observations that suggest complex regulation with respect to GB synthesis and plant growth response under stress. In spite of the use of the well-studied stress-inducible promoter, the highest level of GB accumulation (up to 2.60 micromol g(-1) DW) in the SIP lines grown under saline conditions was not as high as in the UBI lines (up to 3.12 micromol g(-1) DW). Therefore, the use of an ABA-inducible promoter was not more beneficial for de novo production of GB. Interestingly, saline growth conditions enhanced GB accumulation by up to 89% in the SIP lines, whereas up to 44% increase was seen in a UBI line. In all these cases the GB levels were many-fold below the range reported for plant species that produce GB naturally. In spite of lower GB concentrations, statistically greater levels of stress tolerance were found in SIP lines than in UBI lines, suggesting that the stress protection observed in SIP plants cannot be totally explained by the increase in the GB content.
16511234	N-Acetyl-gamma-glutamyl-phosphate reductase (AGPR) catalyzes the third step in an eight-step arginine-biosynthetic pathway that starts with glutamate. This enzyme converts N-acetyl-gamma-glutamyl phosphate to N-acetylglutamate-gamma-semialdehyde by an NADPH-dependent reductive dephosphorylation. AGPR from Oryza sativa (OsAGPR) was expressed in Escherichia coli at 291 K as a soluble fusion protein with an upstream thioredoxin-hexahistidine [Trx-(His)6] extension. OsAGPR(Ala50-Pro366) was purified and crystals were obtained using the sitting-drop vapour-diffusion method at 293 K and diffract X-rays to at least 1.8 A resolution. They belong to the hexagonal space group P6(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 86.11, c = 316.3 A.
16511358	Most plant organs develop from meristems. Rice FON1, which is an ortholog of Clv1, regulates stem cell proliferation and organ initiation. The point muta-tions, fon1-1 and fon1-2, disrupt meristem balance, resulting in alteration of floral organ numbers and the architecture of primary rachis branches. In this study, we identified two knockout alleles, fon1-3 and fon1-4, generated by T-DNA and Tos17 insertion, respectively. Unlike the previously isolated point mutants, the null mutants have alterations not only of the reproductive organs but also of vegetative tissues, producing fewer tillers and secondary rachis branches. The mutant plants are semi-dwarfs due to delayed leaf emergence, and leaf senescence is delayed. SEM analysis showed that the shoot apical meristems of fon1-3 mutants are enlarged. These results indicate that FON1 controls vegetative as well as reproductive development by regulating meristem size.
16512174	Evidence based teaching methods are desirable not only for economic efficiency but also important for ensuring the learner is engaged in meaningful activity. Therefore, a review of the research that could inform both teaching practice and future research is to be welcomed. However, the NRDC review 'Developmental Dyslexia in Adults: A Research Review' contains so many methodological flaws, including the highly selective way in which the research has been used, that the overall value of the report is questionable. In this paper the authors have attempted to highlight the main issues of why this report appears to fall short of being a full 'Research Review'.
16512199	Nitrogen (N) availability is a key role in food and fiber production. Providing plant-available N through synthetic fertilizer in the 20th and early 21st century has been a major contributor to the increased production required to feed and clothe the growing human population. To continue to meet the global demands and to minimize environmental problems, significant improvements are needed in the efficiency with which fertilizer N is utilized within production systems. There are still major uncertainties regarding the fate of fertilizer N added to agricultural soils and the potential for reducing losses to the environment. Enhancing the technical and economic efficiency of fertilizer N is seen to promote a favorable situation for both agricultural production and the environment, and this has provided much of the impetus for a new N fertilizer project. To address this important issue, a rapid assessment project on N fertilizer (NFRAP) was conducted by SCOPE (the Scientific Committee on Problems of the Environment) during late 2003 and early 2004. This was the first formal project of the International Nitrogen Initiative (INI). As part of this assessment, a successful international workshop was held in Kampala, Uganda on 12 -16 January, 2004. This workshop brought together scientists from around the world to assess the fate of synthetic fertilizer N in the context of overall N inputs to agricultural systems, with a view to enhancing the efficiency of N use and reducing negative impacts on the environment. Regionalization of the assessment highlighted the problems of too little N for crop production to meet the nutrient requirements of sub-Saharan Africa and the oversupply of N in the major rice-growing areas of China. The results of the assessment are presented in a book (SCOPE 65) which is now available to provide a basis for further discussions on N fertilizer.
16512210	It has been forecast that the challenge of meeting increased food demand and protecting environmental quality will be won or lost in maize, rice and wheat cropping systems, and that the problem of environmental nitrogen enrichment is most likely to be solved by substituting synthetic nitrogen fertilizers by the creation of cereal crops that are able to fix nitrogen symbiotically as legumes do. In legumes, rhizobia present intracellularly in membrane-bound vesicular compartments in the cytoplasm of nodule cells fix nitrogen endosymbiotically. Within these symbiosomes, membrane-bound vesicular compartments, rhizobia are supplied with energy derived from plant photosynthates and in return supply the plant with biologically fixed nitrogen, usually as ammonia. This minimizes or eliminates the need for inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers. Recently we have demonstrated, using novel inoculation conditions with very low numbers of bacteria, that cells of root meristems of maize, rice, wheat and other major non-legume crops, such as oilseed rape and tomato, can be intracellularly colonized by the non-rhizobial, non-nodulating, nitrogen fixing bacterium, Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus that naturally occurs in sugarcane. G. diazotrophicus expressing nitrogen fixing (nifH) genes is present in symbiosome-like compartments in the cytoplasm of cells of the root meristems of the target cereals and non-legume crop species, somewhat similar to the intracellular symbiosome colonization of legume nodule cells by rhizobia. To obtain an indication of the likelihood of adequate growth and yield, of maize for example, with reduced inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers, we are currently determining the extent to which nitrogen fixation, as assessed using various methods, is correlated with the extent of systemic intracellular colonization by G. diazotrophicus, with minimal or zero inputs.
16512211	As rice can use both nitrate (NO3-) and ammonium (NH4+), we have tested the hypothesis that the shift in the pattern of cultivars grown in Jiangsu Province reflects the ability of the plants to exploit NO3- as a nitrogen (N) source. Four rice cultivars were grown in solution culture for comparison of their growth on NO3- and NH4+ nitrogen sources. All four types of rice, Xian You 63 (XY63), Yang Dao 6 (YD), Nong Keng 57 (NK) and Si You 917 (SY917), grew well and produced similar amounts of shoot biomass with 1 mmol/L NH4+ as the only N source. However, the roots of NK were significantly smaller in comparison with the other cultivars. When supplied with 1 mmol/L NO3-, YD produced the greatest biomass; while NK achieved the lowest growth among the four cultivars. Electrophysiological measurements on root rhizodermal cells showed that the NO3- -elicited changes in membrane potential (deltaEm) of these four rice cultivars were significantly different when exposed to low external NO3- (<1 mmol/L); while they were very similar at high external NO3- (10 mmol/L). The root cell membrane potentials of YD and XY63 were more responsive to low external NO3- than those of NK and SY917. The deltaEm values for YD and XY63 rhizodermal cells were almost the same at both 0.1 mmol/L and 1 mmol/L NO3-; while for the NK and SY917 the values became larger as the external NO3- increased. For YD cultivar, deltaEm was measured over a range of NO3- concentrations and a Michaelis-Menten fit to the data gave a Km value of 0.17 mmol/L. Net NO3- uptake depletion kinetics were also compared and for some cultivars (YD and XY63) a single-phase uptake system with first order kinetics best fitted the data; while other cultivars (ND and SY917) showed a better fit to two uptake systems. These uptake systems had two affinity ranges: one had a similar Km in all the cultivars (0.2 mmol/L); the other much higher affinity system (0.03 mmol/L) was only present in NK and SY917. The expression pattern of twelve different NO3- transporter genes was tested using specific primers, but only OsNRT1.1 and OsNRT2.1 expression could be detected showing significant differences between the four rice cultivars. The results from both the physiological and molecular experiments do provide some support for the hypothesis that the more popular rice cultivars grown in Jiangsu Province may be better at using NO3- as an N source.
16512213	Nitrogen is one of the major plant nutrients without which the agricultural production is not possible. Nitrogen use in Indian agriculture was nearly 55000 tons in 1950-1951 that increased to 11.31 million tons in 2001-2002. The total food production of the country has also experienced the similar increase from 50.83 to 222 million tons in the respective years. Interestingly the N fertilizer consumption of India remained almost constant during the last six years indicating the possibility of reducing N consumption. The highest N consumption is in North zone owing to the introduction of rice-wheat cropping system followed by West, South and East. The N use efficiency has been reported to be varying between 30% to 50% depending on the crops and the management. But in most of the cases, N use efficiency has been calculated based on the total N removed by the crops (above ground part only) ignoring the N content left in the roots. It has been observed in controlled experiments that the total N uptake by roots varied from 18% to 44% of the total N removed by the above ground parts, i.e. grain and straw. If the root N is also accounted, the N use efficiency will be higher than reported. The management of other organic sources has to be improved so as to increase the fertilizer use efficiency as well as to check the direct release of N in the atmosphere. In this review all these issues will be dealt.
16512214	Fertilizer N use in Japan has decreased by about 30% from 1960 to 2000, while keeping a little increase in cereal yields. This has resulted in a significant increase in apparent nitrogen use efficiency, in particular for rice. On the other hand, national N load on the environment associated with the production and consumption of domestic and imported agricultural products has almost tripled during this period, mainly due to the dramatic increase of imports of food and feedstuffs. The environmental problems, including water and air pollution, caused by the excessive loads of N are serious public concerns and there is an urgent need to minimize N losses from agricultural production. In order to meet the necessity for reducing the environmental impacts by excess N, political and technological measures have been taken at regional and country levels. In recent years, the Japanese government has embarked on a series of policies to encourage transition to an environmentally conscious agriculture. Promoting proper material circulation with reducing fertilizer impact and utilizing biomass and livestock wastes is emphasized in these policies. The effectiveness of environmental assessment and planning for reducing regional and national N load has been discussed. Implementation of environmentally friendly technologies and management, both conventional and innovational, have been developed and adopted in Japanese agriculture. The effectiveness of conventional technologies in reducing environmental reactive N has been re-evaluated. Innovative technologies, such as use of controlled availability fertilizers and livestock wastes compost pellets, are being investigated and extended. A comprehensive approach that applies political and technological measures with closer cooperation is necessary to control reactive N in the environment.
16512241	An interlaboratory study with 10 participants was performed to obtain validation and performance data for an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit developed for quantitative gluten determination in foods. The ELISA kit used for this study is based on 2 monoclonal and 1 polyclonal antibody developed by Immunotech, a Beckman Coulter Co. This kit did not show any false positive results or cross-reactivity with oat, rice, maize, and buckwheat. The gliadin standard from the Working Group on Prolamin Analysis and Toxicity was included in the kit as reference material for calibration. All participants obtained a gliadin ELISA kit with Standard Operational Procedure and a form for recording test results. The study included 13 samples labeled as "gluten-free" and 2 samples spiked by wheat flour. Seven samples had gliadin content below the limit of quantitation (LOQ) of the method, and 1 sample exceeded the highest calibration level. Gliadin content in the range from 10 to 157 mg/kg (1st day) and from 11 to 183 mg/kg (2nd day) was found in 7 samples (including 2 spiked samples). Results of these samples were used for further statistical analysis and evaluation. The Cochran, Dixon, and Mandel statistical tests were applied for detection of outliers. The LOQ of the kit was estimated.
1651259	We have isolated DNA probes, homologous to the human hypervariable minisatellite sequence 33.15, from the genome of rice (Oryza sativa). These probes are capable of producing a multilocus rice DNA fingerprint. The rice sequence has a tandem repeating structure based on a 12 bp GC-rich repeat which shows homology to its human counterpart. This probe detects up to 30 loci which are at a number of unlinked chromosomal sites. The GC-rich sequence is invariably associated with an open reading frame (ORF) of unknown function. The ORF is probably a member of a small multigene family.
16513811	Proteomic analysis of any biological system by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) requires high resolution and high reproducibility. The results presented here demonstrate the reproducible and accurate separation of rice (Oryza sativa L.) proteins using improved procedures for high resolution 2-DE, which were adapted for the separation of rice lamina proteins. Validation of this system was achieved by measuring the effects of sample preparation and biological variation on the coefficient of variation (CV) for replicate spots. The majority of experimental variation was shown to be introduced by the 2-DE technique (CV 0.26). Analysis of biological variation indicated that approximately 93-95% of spots were within a CV of 0.7. This provided a threshold value from which valid differences in expression between experimental groups could be screened. This system was then utilized for the proteomic analysis of short- and long-term salt-stress-responsive proteins in the rice leaf lamina. Analysis resulted in the separation of approximately 2500 protein species of which 32 were observed to be significantly regulated by salinity; so far 11 of these proteins have been identified by tandem mass spectrometry. An increase in eight proteins, including RuBisCO activase and ferritin, occurred by 24 h of exposure to sodium chloride (50 mM) and continued to increase during the following 6 d. Only one protein, a putative phosphoglycerate kinase, was found to increase in expression within 24 h and did not increase over a longer period of exposure to salt. There were also proteins that showed no change 24 h after exposure to salt, but had increased (superoxide dismutase) or decreased (S-adenosyl-L-methionine synthetase) after 7 d salt treatment.
16514038	Two strains of free-living diazotrophs isolated from soil from a rice paddy field were characterized by using a polyphasic approach. The novel strains, A-7T and A-4, were found to be very closely related, with 99.9% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity and a DNA-DNA hybridization value of 89.5%, suggesting that they represent a single species. 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses indicated that the two strains fell within the Zoogloea lineage, with less than 96.7 % sequence similarity to other Zoogloea species. Chemotaxonomic characteristics of the novel strains, including DNA G + C content (65.1 mol%), the major quinone system (Q-8), predominant fatty acids (16:1omega7c and 16:0) and major hydroxy fatty acids (3-OH 10:0 and 3-OH 12:0), are similar to those of the genus Zoogloea. The novel strains showed positive results for floc formation which is accepted as confirmatory for species of the genus Zoogloea. However, the novel strains can be distinguished from the other species of Zoogloea by physiological characteristics. The name Zoogloea oryzae sp. nov. is therefore proposed for the novel strains with strain A-7T (= IAM 15218T = CCTCC AB 2052005T) as the type strain. Phylogenetic and chemotaxonomic analyses indicate that strain ATCC 19623, designated as a reference strain of Zoogloea ramigera, does not belong to the genus Zoogloea but to a new genus of Alphaproteobacteria. The name Crabtreella saccharophila gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed for strain ATCC 19623T (= IAM 12669T).
16514559	Affymetrix GeneChips arrayed with about one-half (~23K) of the rice genes were used to profile gene transcription activity in three tissues comprising the maize root tip; the proximal meristem (PM), the quiescent center (QC), and the root cap (RC). Here we analyze the gene transcription profile of the RC, compared to both the PM and the QC, from three biological replicates. In the RC, a total of 669 genes were identified as being differentially upregulated, and 365 differentially downregulated. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis was used to confirm upregulated genes in the RC. In addition, using the technique of laser microdissection (LMD) we localized upregulated gene expression to the lateral RC cells. Taken as a whole, transcription profile analyses revealed the upregulation in the maize RC of clusters of genes linked to major metabolic processes and pathways, including: (1) transport, both the export of carbohydrates and the uptake of nutrients; (2) sensing and responding to (often stressful) biotic and abiotic environmental stimuli; (3) integrating the responses of at least 3 major growth regulators (auxin, ethylene, jasmonic acid); (4) processing the large amount of carbohydrate transported into the RC. Although the profile data are derived using heterologous rice GeneChips, with about half of the total rice gene set, this study, nevertheless, provides a genomic scale characterization of the entire RC, and serves as a new platform from which to advance studies of the network of pathways operating in the maize RC.
16514560	A rice gene, OsAPT2, which encodes a putative adenine phosphoribosyl transferase (APRT), was cloned and characterized. Analysis of the cDNA and genomic sequences revealed seven exons and six introns in the OsAPT2. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsAPT2 is highly homologous to those of previously isolated APRTs. RT-PCR analysis indicated that the OsAPT2 transcript in the young panicles of 'Annong S-1' is down-regulated at 29 degrees C, the critical temperature for induction of 'Annong S-1' fertility conversion. Since the panicle is likely the thermo-sensitive organ at the early stages of pollen fertility alternation, the observed heat-induced change in the OsAPT2 expression pattern in young panicles may mediate, at least in part, thermo-sensitive genic male sterility (TGMS) in 'Annong S-1'. An antisense strategy was used to suppress the expression of the OsAPT2 homolog in Arabidopsis, and the obtained homozygous transgenic plants contained lower AMP content, displayed lower pollen germination rates and exhibited some abnormalities in leaf phenotypes and flowering timing. These data suggest that OsAPT2 is likely to be involved in TGMS in the rice line 'Annong S-1'.
16514565	The function of OsDR8, a rice disease resistance-responsive gene, was studied. Silencing of OsDR8 using an RNA interference approach resulted in phenotypic alteration of the plants. The transgenic plants with repressed expression of OsDR8 showed reduced resistance or susceptibility to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae and Magnaporthe grisea causing bacterial blight and blast, which are two of the most devastating diseases in rice worldwide, respectively. The putative product of OsDR8 was highly homologous to an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of the thiazole precursor of thiamine. Transgenic plants showing repressed expression of OsDR8 and reduced resistance had significantly lower levels of thiamine than the control plants. Exogenous application of thiamine could complement the compromised defense of the OsDR8-silenced plants. The expression level of several defense-responsive genes including the earlier functional genes of defense transduction pathway, OsPOX and OsPAL, and the downstream genes of the pathway, OsPR1a, OsPR1b, OsPR4, OsPR5 and OsPR10, was also decreased in the OsDR8-silenced plants. These results suggest that the impact of OsDR8 on disease resistance in rice may be through the regulation of expression of other defense-responsive genes and the site of OsDR8 function is on the upstream of the signal transduction pathway. In addition, the accumulation of thiamine may be essential for bacterial blight resistance and blast resistance.
16515191	Four rice cultivars with different photooxidation-tolerance characteristics during grain-filling stage in early and late seasons were selected to uncover the physiological and biochemical mechanisms of the correlation between rice photooxidation-tolerance and grain quality. The results showed that the parameters mean grain-filling rate (Gmean), time arrived to maximum grain-filling rate (T(max. G)), and 100-grain weight at the maximum grain-filling rate (T(max. G)) were relatively stable for the varieties adaptable to high light intensity, while on the contrary for those sensitive to photooxidation. The ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase and starch synthase activities of the varieties adaptable to high light intensity after grain-filling peaks had a less difference between early and late seasons than those sensitive to photooxidation, and the relative enzyme activities in the varieties adaptable to high light intensity changed coequally in early and late seasons.
16515193	In this study, allelopathic rice accession PI312777 seedlings were grown on a paddy soil under near natural condition, and their root exudates were collected by using circulation method, with the solution collected from no seedlings- planted soil as the control. The ether extracts of the root exudates and soil solution were detected by GC-MS, and identified with the mass spectral database of NIST and WILEY Library. The results showed that there were 36 compounds in the rice root exudates, including 9 terpenoids (peak area 10.97%), 8 phenols or quinones (5.87%), 6 esters (10.68%), 3 aldehydes or ketones (1.44%), 4 heterocycles (68.04%), 2 alcohols (1.23%), 2 ethers (0.57%), and 2 others (1.20%). A distinctly similar structure was observed among the terpenoids and among the phenols or quinones. In the soil solution, 39 compounds were detected, and 7 of them were the same of the root exudates. The difference of the compounds in rice root exudates and soil solution, and the possible allelopathic mechanisms of these compounds were discussed in this paper.
16515209	With the increasing commercial use of genetically modified crops (GMCs), it is quite important to assess their potential ecological risk. The likelihood of genes dispersal from GMCs to related wild species, the tolerance of insects to insect-resistant GMCs, and the potential impact of GMCs on biodiversity have been extensively investigated. This article reviewed the potential ecological risk assessment of transgenic Bt rice-expressed products, including the persistence characteristics of Bt insecticidal crystal proteins in soil, and their effects on soil culturable microbial flora and soil enzyme activities, which could provide useful information for related researches.
16515742	Food sources of nutrients in the Canadian diet were explored. Knowledge of these sources is important to public health professionals and to those in clinical practice. Using data from the Food Habits of Canadians study, we investigated nutrient sources from detailed food groupings in a sample of 1,543 adults (971 women, 572 men) from across Canada. Subjects were interviewed by trained dietitians. At the time of the interview, a sociodemographic questionnaire and a 24-hour dietary recall were completed. The response rate was 30%. Subjects aged 18 to 34 reported eating more prepared and convenience foods than did those aged 35 to 65. Energy was contributed mainly by breads, pasta, rice, grains, and fluid milk. Protein intake was primarily derived from meat and dairy products; legumes, nuts, seeds, and eggs were not high contributors. For men aged 35 to 65 and women aged 18 to 65, butter, margarine, and oil were the primary fat sources; they were the second most common source for men aged 18 to 34. Fibre was provided by foods that are not usually considered good sources, but because of the large total consumption of these foods, they are important in Canadians' diet. The main source of calcium was dairy products, and iron came mainly from non-heme sources. We must understand the contributions of foods to nutrients, and distinguish "important" sources of nutrients (those consumed by many in substantial amounts) from "good" sources (foods rich in particular nutrients, whether eaten or not).
16516937	Our work with almond peptide N-glycosidase A made us interested also in the alpha1,3/4-fucosidase which is used as a specific reagent for glycoconjugate analysis. The enzyme was purified to presumed homogeneity by a series of chromatographic steps including dye affinity and fast-performance anion exchange chromatography. The 63 kDa band was analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry which yielded several partial sequences. A homology search retrieved the hypothetical protein Q8GW72 from Arabidopsis thaliana. This protein has recently been described as being specific for alpha1,2-linkages. However, cDNA cloning and expression in Pichia pastoris of the A. thaliana fucosidase showed that it hydrolyzed fucose in 3- and 4-linkage to GlcNAc in Lewis determinants whereas neither 2-linked fucose nor fucose in 3-linkage to the innermost GlcNAc residue were attacked. This first cloning of a plant alpha1,3/4-fucosidase also confirmed the identity of the purified almond enzyme and thus settles the notorious uncertainty about its molecular mass. The alpha1,3/4-fucosidase from Arabidopsis exhibited striking sequence similarity with an enzyme of similar substrate specificity from Streptomyces sp. (Q9Z4I9) and with putative proteins from rice.
16519393	Polyneuropathy from thiamin deficiency can occur in persons who consume a diet consisting mainly of polished rice with low protein and thiamin content in the setting of excessive physical activity or hypermetabolic states. The authors report here a 17-year-old fisherman who presented with a 3-month history of symptoms and signs consistent with polyneuropathy. There were also clinical features of thyrotoxicosis which was confirmed by thyroid function test. His dietary intake consisted mainly of polished rice and fish both of which contain a small amount of thiamin. This could not cope with his hypermetabolic condition from thyrotoxicosis resulting in thiamin deficiency with polyneuropathy.
16520319	In this paper, a simple universal high-throughput method of constructing the vectors was developed. It could add proper adapter when the PCR primers were designed, and the purpose fragments were cloned by PCR, and the various complementary sticky ends were created by T4 DNA polymerase's 3' -exodeoxyribonuclease activity. If all these fragments were put together with DNA ligase, they would recombinate in an orientation. If they had been transformated, the tansformants would be identified. Let's take the Oryza sativa single-cross homologous recombination chloroplast expression vector pRSMGA which was constructed with seven fragments as an example, if the vector pRSMGA was constructed in using the method what had mentioned, only twice recombination and transformation would be done. Scores of experiments had proved that it is a simple universal high-throughput novel method to construct the complicated vectors, which has not appeared in the periodical.
16520337	The serine/arginine-rich (SR) protein family plays an important role in constitutive and alternative splicing (AS). These proteins regulate AS in a tissue-specific and stress-responsive manner. Pre-mRNAs encoding SR proteins are often alternatively spliced, and these AS events may be important for the regulation of AS events of other pre-mRNAs. In this study, we analyzed AS events of SR proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice). We found three sets of AS events conserved between Arabidopsis and rice. These conserved AS events were found in the plant-novel-SR protein, SC35-like (SCL), and two-Zn-knuckles-type 9G8 subfamilies. Each member of these subfamilies has at least one RNA recognition motif (RRM) and at least one intron in the RRM-encoded region. We found that the conserved AS events occurred in these introns and, in each case, the conserved AS events resulted in mature mRNAs encoding proteins with incomplete RRMs. To search for the evolutionary origin of these AS events, we analyzed SR proteins in Physcomitrella patens (moss) in addition to those in Arabidopsis and rice. We found moss homologues of the plant-novel-SR protein, SCL, and the two-Zn-knuckles-type 9G8 subfamilies in silico, and these homologues have long introns at the same location of the conserved AS sites in Arabidopsis and rice. Such long introns are quite specific for alternatively spliced introns concerning the Arabidopsis SR protein genes. The long introns found in the moss SR protein genes strongly suggested that conserved AS events in moss SR protein genes might be similar to those in Arabidopsis and rice. We traced the evolutionary origin of the conserved AS events to 400 MYA, when plants first invaded land. These events are likely important in the regulation of whole AS events and likely contribute to the complicated transcriptome described by AS. The complicated transcriptome created by regulated AS events might have provided plants tolerance against droughts or temperature shifts and given them the ability to live on land.
16520342	Depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer leads to an increase in ultraviolet-B (UVB: 280-320 nm) radiation reaching the earth's surface, and the enhanced solar UVB radiation predicted by atmospheric models will result in reduction of growth and yield of crops in the future. Over the last two decades, extensive studies of the physiological, biochemical and morphological effects of UVB in plants, as well as the mechanisms of UVB resistance, have been carried out. In this review, we describe recent research into the mechanisms of UVB resistance in higher plants, with an emphasis on rice (Oryza sativa), one of the world's most important staple food crops. Recent studies have brought to light the following remarkable findings. UV-absorbing compounds accumulating in the epidermal cell layers have traditionally been considered to function as UV filters, and to play an important role in countering the damaging effects of UVB radiation. Although these compounds are effective in reducing cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) induction in plants exposed to a challenge exposure to UVB, certain levels of CPD are maintained constitutively in light conditions containing UVB, regardless of the quantity or presence of visible light. These findings imply that the systems for repairing DNA damage and scavenging reactive oxygen species (ROS) are essential for plants to grow in light conditions containing UVB. CPD photolyase activity is a crucial factor determining the differences in UVB sensitivity between rice cultivars. The substitution of one or two bases in the CPD photolyase gene can alter the activity of the enzyme, and the associated resistance of the plant to UVB radiation. These findings open up the possibility, in the near future, of increasing the resistance of rice to UVB radiation, by selective breeding or bioengineering of the genes encoding CPD photolyase.
16520938	A new method has been established for simultaneous determination of 405 pesticide residues in grain, using accelerated solvent extraction (ASE), solid-phase extraction (SPE), and GC-MS and LC-MS-MS. The method was based on appraisal of the GC-MS and LC-MS-MS characteristics of 660 pesticides, their efficiency of extraction from grain, and their purification. Samples of grain (10 g) were mixed with Celite 545 (10 g) and the mixture was placed in a 34-mL cell of an accelerated solvent extractor and extracted with acetonitrile in the static state for 3 min with two cycles at 1,500 psig and at 80 degrees C. For the 362 pesticides determined by GC-MS, half of the extracts were cleaned with an Envi-18 cartridge and then further cleaned with Envi-Carb and Sep-Pak NH2 cartridges in series. The pesticides were eluted with acetonitrile-toluene, 3:1, and the eluates were concentrated and used for analysis after being exchanged with hexane twice. For the 43 pesticides determined by LC-MS-MS the other half of the extracts were cleaned with Sep-Pak Alumina N cartridge and further cleaned with Envi-Carb and Sep-Pak NH2 cartridges. Pesticides were eluted with acetonitrile-toluene, 3:1. After evaporation to dryness the eluates were diluted with acetonitrile-water, 3:2, and used for analysis. In the linear range of each pesticide the linear correlation coefficient r was equal to or greater than 0.956 and 94% of linear correlation coefficients were greater than 0.990. At low, medium, and high fortification levels, at the limit of detection (LOD), twice the LOD and ten times LOD, respectively, recoveries ranged from 42 to 132%; for 382 pesticides, or 94.32%, recovery was from 60 to 120%. The relative standard deviation (RSD) was always below 38% and was below 30% for 391 pesticides, or 96.54%. The LOD was 0.0005-0.3000 mg kg(-1). The proposed method is suitable for determination of 405 pesticide residues in grain such as maize, wheat, oat, rice, and barley, etc.
16522911	Although ferric pyrophosphate is a promising compound for iron fortification of foods, few data are available on the effect of food matrices, processing, and ascorbic acid on its bioavailability. We compared the relative bioavailability (RBV) of ferrous sulfate in an experimental form of micronized dispersible ferric pyrophosphate (MDFP) in a wheat-milk infant cereal given with and without ascorbic acid with the RBV of MDFP from a processed and unprocessed rice meal. A crossover design was used to measure iron absorption in young women (n = 26) from test meals fortified with isotopically labeled [57Fe]-MDFP and [58Fe]-ferrous sulfate, based on erythrocyte incorporation of stable isotope labels 14 d later. Geometric mean iron absorption from the wheat-based meal fortified with MDFP was 2.0% and that from the meal fortified with ferrous sulfate was 3.2% (RBV = 62). The addition of ascorbic acid at a molar ratio of 4:1 to iron increased iron absorption from MDFP to 5.8% and that from ferrous sulfate to 14.8% (RBV = 39). In the rice meals, mean iron absorption from MDFP added to the rice at the time of feeding was 1.7%, and that from ferrous sulfate was 11.6% (RBV = 15). The mean iron absorption from MDFP extruded into artificial rice grains was 3.0% and that from ferrous sulfate in unprocessed rice was 12.6% (RBV = 24). Sixteen of 26 subjects were iron deficient. Iron status was a highly significant predictor of the RBV of MDFP (P < 0.001). RBV of the experimental MDFP varied markedly with food matrix and iron status. Assigning a single RBV value to poorly soluble compounds may be of limited value in evaluating their suitability for food fortification.
16522927	To evaluate growth, tolerance and plasma biochemistries in infants fed an experimental rice protein-based infant formula. Randomized, blinded, 16 week parallel feeding trial of 65 healthy infants fed either an experimental partially hydrolyzed rice protein-based infant formula fortified with lysine and threonine (RPF, n = 32), or a standard intact cow's milk protein-based formula (CMF, n = 33) as a control. Assessments occurred at enrollment (average 2 days), 2, 4, 8, and 16 weeks of age. Growth as indicated by weight, length, and head circumference was not different between the 2 formula groups. All plasma biochemistries for both groups were within reference normal range. However, RPF group had lower phosphorus and urea nitrogen, lower essential amino acids except threonine, which was higher, and lower ratio of essential (including semi-essential) to non-essential amino acids. Differences in the concentrations and ratios of amino acids became less as feeding progressed with age. Plasma total protein, albumin, prealbumin, calcium, magnesium, and alkaline phosphatase were not different between groups. Healthy infants fed an experimental partially hydrolyzed rice protein-based formula had normal growth, tolerance, and plasma biochemistry comparable to those of infants fed a standard intact milk protein-based formula, despite some differences in amino acid profiles.
16523406	Hon-Chi was used for anti-hyperglycemic activity screening in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (STZ-diabetic rats) in an attempt to develop new substances for handling diabetes. Mandarin Hon-Chi is red yeast rice fermented with Monascus pilous and Monascus purpureus. Single oral administration of Hon-Chi decreased plasma glucose in STZ-diabetic rats in a dose-dependent manner from 50 mg/kg to 350 mg/kg. Similar treatment with Hon-Chi also lowered the plasma glucose in normal rats as effectively as that produced in STZ-diabetic rats. In addition, oral administration of Hon-Chi at the highest dose (350 mg/kg) attenuated the elevation of plasma glucose induced by an intravenous glucose challenge test in normal rats. Moreover, mRNA levels of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) in liver from STZ-diabetic rats were reversed in a dose-dependent manner by the repeated oral treatment of Hon-Chi three times daily for two weeks. Otherwise, hyperphagia in STZ-diabetic rats was markedly reversed by similar repeated treatment of Hon-Chi. The obtained results suggest that oral administration of Hon-Chi could decrease hepatic gluconeogenesis to lower plasma glucose in diabetic rats lacking insulin.
16523442	Monascus sp. are used for the production of red yeast rice, which has been applied in Asian food and medicine for centuries. The fungi form several secondary metabolites, among others the monascopyridines A and B. We have now detected two new monascopyridines (named C and D) with similar UV absorption spectra and maxima at 306-307 nm in red rice fermented with M. purpureus. The new monascopyridines have the same chromophores as the already known and differ in a missing gamma-lactone ring only. Monascopyridine C has a hexanoyl side chain, whereas monascopyridine D is the higher homologue with an octanoyl side chain. The toxicological properties of monascopyridines were studied using immortalized human kidney epithelial cells, displaying cytotoxic effects in micromolar concentrations with median effective concentration values between 20.7 and 43.2 micromol/L, depending on the compound and method used. The monascopyridines C and D did not induce apoptosis. However, they caused a rise of the mitotic index from 3.21 +/- 0.27% (control) to maximum 8.14 +/- 0.89% (monascopyridine D) by an accumulation of cells in the metaphase with a simultaneous decrease of cells in the ana- and telophase. Monascopyridine-induced metaphase arrest is caused by a partial or complete loss of the spindle apparatus as indicated by the occurrence of abnormal metaphases and immunological staining of alpha-tubulin. These effects are indicating an aneuploidic potential and therefore the monascopyridines C and D might contribute to tumor formations.
16523443
16524874	The Lemna genus is a group of monocotyledonous plants with tiny, floating bodies. Lemna gibba G3 and L. paucicostata 6746 were once intensively analyzed for physiological timing systems of photoperiodic flowering and circadian rhythms since they showed obligatory and sensitive photoperiodic responses of a long-day and a short-day plant, respectively. We attempted to approach the divergence of biological timing systems at the molecular level using these plants. We first employed molecular techniques to study their circadian clock systems. We developed a convenient bioluminescent reporter system to monitor the circadian rhythms of Lemna plants. As in Arabidopsis, the Arabidopsis CCA1 promoter produced circadian expression in Lemna plants, though the phases and the sustainability of bioluminescence rhythms were somewhat diverged between them. Lemna homologs of the Arabidopsis clock-related genes LHY/CCA1, GI, ELF3 and PRRs were then isolated as candidates for clock-related genes in these plants. These genes showed rhythmic expression profiles that were basically similar to those of Arabidopsis under light-dark conditions. Results from co-transfection assays using the bioluminescence reporter and overexpression effectors suggested that the LHY and GI homologs of Lemna can function in the circadian clock system like the counterparts of Arabidopsis. All these results suggested that the frame of the circadian clock appeared to be conserved not only between the two Lemna plants but also between monocotyledons and dicotyledons. However, divergence of gene numbers and expression profiles for LHY/CCA1 homologs were found between Lemna, rice and Arabidopsis, suggesting that some modification of clock-related components occurred through their evolution.
16525673	To investigate the effects of fermented brown rice (FBRA) on the development of hereditary hepatitis in Long-Evans Cinnamon (LEC) rats, we compared the incidence and grades of acute hepatitis among rats fed 5% and 10% FBRA in the conventional diet and the conventional diet alone. Both the 5% and 10% FBRA-supplemented diets indicated a tendency to prevent the development of hepatitis, and the significant effect of 10% FBRA was observed until 16-17 weeks of age in the accumulated incidence and survival ratio compared with the unsupplemented conventional diet, although no significant difference was observed between 5% and 10% FBRA-supplemented diets. At the age of 12 weeks, which is just before the rats develop hepatitis, serum copper levels in rats fed either of the test diets were similar to those in rats fed the conventional diet. Furthermore, the copper concentration in liver tissue at 12 weeks of age was not changed by the test diet. These results suggest that FBRA has preventive effects on the development of hepatitis in LEC rats and may play an important role in protecting the liver against the free radicals induced by copper accumulation in the liver.
16525838	Cleistogamy is the self-pollination within closed spikelets and is expected to be a useful genetic tool for prevention of possible gene transfer in transgenic crops, for maintenance of genetic purity in autogamous crops, and for increased tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. Mapping of the gene ld(t), which is responsible for lack of lodicules inside spikelets and causes cleistogamy, was carried out using F2 and F3 populations derived from a cleistogamous (CL) mutant CL-SNU x Milyang 23 cross. A number of STS markers along chromosomes were developed and bulked segregant analysis was adopted for preliminary mapping. The results showed that the ld(t) was located at the end region of chromosome 1L, flanked by S01178b (an STS marker developed for the locus at 178 cM based on the rice genetic map reported by Japanese Rice Genome Project) at 0.8 cM and co-segregated with S01181a and S01181b (an STS marker developed for the locus at 181 cM).
16525886	Flowering time is important when adapting crop plants to different environments. While high feeding quality of forage grasses is facilitated by repression of flowering, flowering should also be inducible to facilitate grass seed production. Consequently, the identification and characterization of the genes controlling flowering time in forage grasses, including perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), is of great interest. In this study, three candidate genes for vernalization response genes in perennial ryegrass were identified based on DNA sequence homology to TmVRN1 and TmVRN2 of diploid wheat (Triticum monococcum), and Hd1 of rice (Oryza sativa). High sequence similarity between LpVRN1 and TmVRN1, co-localization of LpVRN1 with a major quantitative trait loci (QTL) for vernalization response in perennial ryegrass, synteny between map-positions of LpVRN1 and TmVRN1, mRNA expression analysis of LpVRN1 alleles during vernalization, and the correspondence between LpVRN1 mRNA expression levels and flowering time leads us to conclude that LpVRN1 is orthologous to TmVRN1 and that its function is conserved between diploid wheat and perennial ryegrass. Of the remaining two candidate genes, a putative Hd1 orthologue, LpCO, co-localized with a second QTL for vernlization response. LpCO has recently been shown to be involved in the photoperiodic regulation of flowering time. While epistasis, at the level of LpVRN1 transcription, was observed between the LpVRN1 and LpCO genomic regions, no differential expression of LpCO transcripts was observed during vernalization. While orthologous genes controlling flowering time can thus be identified, future allele sequencing efforts will reveal if causative polymorphisms are conserved across the grasses.
16525890	In yeast, Rad21/Scc1 and its meiotic variant Rec8 are key players in the establishment and subsequent dissolution of sister chromatid cohesion for mitosis and meiosis, respectively, which are essential for chromosome segregation. Unlike yeast, our identification revealed that the rice genome has 4 RAD21-like genes that share lower than 21% identity at polypeptide levels, and each is present as a single copy in this genome. Here we describe our analysis of the function of OsRAD21-4 by RNAi. Western blot analyses indicated that the protein was most abundant in young flowers and less in leaves and buds but absent in roots. In flowers, the expression was further defined to premeiotic pollen mother cells (PMCs) and meiotic PMCs of anthers. Meiotic chromosome behaviors were monitored from male meiocytes of OsRAD21-4-deficient lines mediated by RNAi. The male meiocytes showed multiple aberrant events at meiotic prophase I, including over-condensation of chromosomes, precocious segregation of homologues and chromosome fragmentation. Fluorescence in situ hybridization experiments revealed that the deficient lines were defective in homologous pairing and cohesion at sister chromatid arms. These defects resulted in unequal chromosome segregation and aberrant spore generation. These observations suggest that OsRad21-4 is essential for efficient meiosis.
1652630	Five sources of dietary fiber were compared for their effect on blood and liver cholesterol. The effects of soybean fiber, rice bran (full fat), oat bran, barley bran and mixed bran on total blood cholesterol concentrations and liver cholesterol concentrations were measured in beef-fed C57BL/6 male mice. Each diet contained cooked beef, beef tallow, corn starch and 7% dietary fiber from one of the five fiber sources. A control group consumed a fiber-free diet. Dietary cholesterol was provided by the beef and beef tallow only. The experimental diets were fed for 3 wk; blood and liver were collected when the mice were 18 wk old. The liver cholesterol concentration in the rice bran-fed group was the lowest of the six diet groups and was significantly different than concentrations in the oat bran-fed group and the barley bran-fed group (P less than 0.05). The oat bran, mixed bran, and barley bran did not significantly lower blood cholesterol in the mice. Both the soybean fiber and rice bran diet groups had significantly lower total blood cholesterol than did the fiber-free controls (P less than 0.05). The soybean fiber group also had significantly lower blood cholesterol than the mixed-bran group.
16526465	Various digestion procedures were carefully investigated and accurately evaluated with respect to their effect on the analysis of cereals and cereal flours. Multielement methods were selected and well developed for the determination of essential (Cr, Cu, Fe, Mg, Mn, and Zn), nonessential (Ag, Al, Ba, Bi, In, and Ga), and toxic (Cd and Pb) minor and trace elements by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry. Only Ag could be determined, either with aqueous standard or standard addition calibration methods, while the standard addition methods were more accurate for the determination of other elements. The recoveries were mostly within the range of 84.1-113% for the expected values of all analytes with respect to certified reference material NIST SRM 1586a (rice flour). The results proved that, for cereals and cereal flours, the use of H2O2 for wet digestion and HNO3 for dry ashing were not necessary. Linear regression analysis and Student's paired t-test were applied to evaluate the significant differences between different procedures and type of samples.
16526857	We have used oxygen Rydberg time-of-flight spectroscopy to carry out a crossed molecular beam study of the CN + O2 reaction at collision energies of 3.1 and 4.1 kcal/mol. The O(3P2) products were tagged by excitation to high-n Rydberg levels and subsequently field ionized at a detector. The translational energy distributions were broad, indicating that the NCO is formed with a wide range of internal excitation, and the angular distribution was forward-backward symmetric, indicating the participation of NCOO intermediates with lifetimes comparable to or longer than their rotational periods. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus modeling of the dissociation of NCOO to NCO + O suggests that Do(NC-OO) > or = 38 kcal/mol, which is consistent with several theoretical calculations. Implications for the competing CO + NO channel are discussed.
16526960	Few studies have described heterogeneity in Schistosoma japonicum infection intensity, and none were done in Philippines. The purpose of this report is to describe the village-to-village variation in the prevalence of two levels of infection intensity across 50 villages of Samar Province, the Philippines. This cross-sectional study was conducted in 25 rain-fed and 25 irrigated villages endemic for S. japonicum between August 2003 and November 2004. Villages were selected based on irrigation and farming criteria. A maximum of 35 eligible households were selected per village. Each participant was asked to provide stool samples on three consecutive days. All those who provided at least one stool sample were included in the analysis. A Bayesian three category outcome hierarchical cumulative logit regression model with adjustment for age, sex, occupation and measurement error of the Kato-Katz technique was used for analysis. A total of 1427 households and 6917 individuals agreed to participate in the study. A total of 5624 (81.3%) participants provided at least one stool sample. The prevalences of those lightly and at least moderately infected varied from 0% (95% Bayesian credible interval (BCI): 0%-3.1%) to 45.2% (95% BCI: 36.5%-53.9%) and 0% to 23.0% (95% BCI: 16.4%-31.2%) from village-to-village, respectively. Using the 0-7 year old group as a reference category, the highest odds ratio (OR) among males and females were that of being aged 17-40-year old (OR = 8.76; 95% BCI: 6.03-12.47) and 11-16-year old (OR = 8.59; 95% BCI: 4.74-14.28), respectively. People who did not work on a rice farm had a lower prevalence of infection than those working full time on a rice farm. The OR for irrigated villages compared to rain-fed villages was 1.41 (95% BCI: 0.50-3.21). We found very important village-to-village variation in prevalence of infection intensity. This variation is probably due to village-level variables other than that explained by a crude classification of villages into the irrigated and non-irrigated categories. We are planning to capture this spatial heterogeneity by updating our initial transmission dynamics model with the data reported here combined with 1-year post-treatment follow-up of study participants.
16527928	Crop domestication frequently began with the selection of plants that did not naturally shed ripe fruits or seeds. The reduction in grain shattering that led to cereal domestication involved genetic loci of large effect. The molecular basis of this key domestication transition, however, remains unknown. Here we show that human selection of an amino acid substitution in the predicted DNA binding domain encoded by a gene of previously unknown function was primarily responsible for the reduction of grain shattering in rice domestication. The substitution undermined the gene function necessary for the normal development of an abscission layer that controls the separation of a grain from the pedicel.
16528562	To understand the transcriptional regulatory mechanism of host genes during the activation of defense responses in rice, we isolated WRKY transcription factors whose expressions were altered upon attack of the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of the devastating rice blast disease. A systematic expression analysis of OsWRKYs (Oryza sativa L. WRKYs) revealed that among 45 tested genes the expression of 15 genes was increased remarkably in an incompatible interaction between rice and M. grisea. Twelve of the M. grisea-inducible OsWRKY genes were also differentially regulated in rice plants infected with the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). In experiments with defense signaling molecules, the expression of two genes, OsWRKY45 and OsWRKY62, was increased in salicylic acid (SA)-treated leaves and the expression of three genes, OsWRKY10, OsWRKY82, and OsWRKY85 was increased by jasmonic acid (JA) treatment. OsWRKY30 and OsWRKY83 responded to both SA- and JA treatments. The expression profiles suggest that a large number of WRKY DNA-binding proteins are involved in the transcriptional activation of defense-related genes in response to rice pathogens.
16529298	To investigate the genetic factors underlying constitutive and adaptive root growth under different water-supply conditions, a double haploid (DH) population, derived from a cross between lowland rice variety IR64 and upland rice variety Azucena, with 284 molecular markers was used in cylindrical pot experiments. Several QTLs for seminal root length (SRL), adventitious root number (ARN) and total root dry weight (RW) respectively, under both flooding and upland conditions were detected. Two identical QTLs for SRL and RW were found under flooding and upland conditions. The relative parameters defined as the ratio of parameters under the two water-supply conditions were also used for QTL analysis. A comparative analysis among different genetic populations was performed for the QTLs for root traits and several consistent QTLs for root traits across genetic backgrounds were detected. Candidate genes for cell expansion and elongation were used for comparative mapping with the detected QTLs. Four cell wall-related expressed sequence tags (ESTs) for OsEXP2, OsEXP4, EXT and Xet were mapped on the intervals carrying the QTLs for root traits.
16529299	Based on the successful development of new microsatellite markers from the data of two whole-sequenced rice varieties, japonica variety Nipponbare and indica variety 9311, an F2 population of 90 lines, which was derived from a single cross between Nipponbare and 9311, was applied to construct a genetic linkage framework map. The map covered 2 455.7 cM of total genomic length, and consisted of 152 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) loci including 46 pairs of new SSR primers developed by our research institute. The average genetic distance between two markers was 16.16 cM. In addition, markers RM345 and RM494, which have not been mapped on the Temnykh's map et al. (2001) were anchored on the sixth chromosome of this map. We compared this research with maps of Temnykh et al.(2001) and LAN et al. (2003) regarding the aspects of type and size of population, type and quantity of markers, and the marker arrangement order on chromosome, etc. Results indicated that the similarity of marker linear alignment was 93.81% between this map and T-map. Finally, the important significance of using sequenced rice varieties to construct linkage map was also discussed.
16529380	The nitrogen-fixing endophyte Azoarcus sp. strain BH72 infects roots of Kallar grass and rice inter- and intra-cellularly and can spread systemically into shoots without causing symptoms of plant disease. Although cellulose or its breakdown products do not support growth, this strain expresses an endoglucanase, which might be involved in infection. Sequence analysis of eglA places the secreted 34-kDa protein into the glycosyl hydrolases family 5, with highest relatedness (40% identity) to endoglucanases of the phytopathogenic bacteria Xanthomonas campestris and Ralstonia solanacearum. Transcriptional regulation studied by eglA:: gusA fusion was not significantly affected by cellulose or its breakdown products or by microaerobiosis. Strongest induction (threefold) was obtained in bacteria grown in close vicinity to rice roots. Visible sites of expression were the emergence points of lateral roots and root tips, which are the primary regions of ingress into the root. To study the role in endophytic colonization, eglA was inactivated by transposon mutagenesis. Systemic spreading of the eglA mutant and of a pilAB mutant into the rice shoot could no longer be detected by polymerase chain reaction. Microscopic inspection of infection revealed that the intracellular colonization of root epidermis cells was significantly reduced in the eglA- mutant BHE6 compared with the wild type and partially restored in the complementation mutant BHRE2 expressing eglA. This provides evidence that Azoarcus sp. endoglucanase is an important determinant for successful endophytic colonization of rice roots, suggesting an active bacterial colonization process.
16529425	Cooking and sensory properties of rice are largely determined by the amylose content and structure. For relationships between functional and structural properties, a more accurate method to determine the structure of amylose is required. Here we calibrate size exclusion chromatography (SEC) columns, using Mark-Houwink parameters for linear starch and pullulan standards, to obtain the true molecular weight distribution of linear starch. When the molecular weight distribution is reported relative to pullulan, rather than the actual molecular weight which is readily obtained from universal calibration, it is seen that the molecular weights of longer amylose chains are greatly underestimated. We validate the SEC method to enable the measurement of the hydrodynamic volume distribution of the starch by examining reproducibility and recovery. Analysis of the starch in the sample pre- and post-SEC shows that 20% of the carbohydrate is not recovered. Comparison of the weight-average degree of polymerization, X(w), of (undebranched) starch of pre- and post-SEC is made using iodine binding as well as Berry plots of data from multi-angle laser light scattering (MALLS). These both show that current SEC techniques for starch analysis lead to significant loss of high molecular weight material. Indeed, for the systems studied here, the values for X(w) after SEC are about three times lower than those before SEC. Iodine-starch complexes of pre- and post-SEC samples reveals that the SEC techniques give reliable data for the amylose fraction but not for amylopectin. We address reports in the literature suggesting that the conventional isoamylase method for debranching starch would lead to incomplete debranching and thus incorrect molecular weight distributions. However, it is shown using (1)H NMR that isoamylase can completely debranch the amylose (to within the detection limit of 0.5%), and by SEC that successive incubation with isoamylase, alpha-amylase, and beta-amylase can degrade the amylose-rich fraction completely to maltose. We develop a method to obtain a hot water soluble fraction (HWSF), rich in undamaged amylose molecules, directly from rice flour, avoiding the structural degradation of previous techniques. With appropriate sample handling, the formation of associations between starch chains is minimized. With the combination of calibrated and validated SEC methods, and an improved extraction of amylose from rice, the X(w) for both HWSF and debranched HWSF are found to be much larger than has previously been reported.
16529792	The simple and efficient method for determination of probenazole in soil, rice plant, and paddy water was developed, and the fate of probenazole in rice field ecosystem was also studied. Probenazole residues were extracted from sample, cleaned up by liquid/liquid partition and chromatographic column and then determined by gas chromatography with flame photometric detection. As far as the accuracy and precision was concerned, the method met certain standard. The LODs of probenazole calculated as a sample concentration (S/N ratio of 3) was 0.02 mg kg-1. The minimum detectable limit was 5x10(-10) g. The degradation of probenazole in soil, rice straw, and water was determined. The results showed that probenazole degradation in soil and rice straw coincided with C=0.576e-0.147t, C=17.858e-0.414t, respectively; the half-lives were about 4.7 and 1.7 d, respectively. The degradation rate of probenazole in rice straw was faster than that of in soil. Probenazole residue at 0.02 mg kg-1 could only be detected in paddy water within the first day after application. The final probenazole residues in soil, brown rice, and water were undetectable at levels of recommended and doubled dosage with an interval of 63 d. Therefore, a dosage of 1800-3600 g a.i. hm-2 was recommended, which could be considered as safe to human beings and animals. These would contribute to provide the scientific basis of using this fungicide.
16530402	Having gained a thorough understanding of the structure and organization of model plant genomes, such as those of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, we have now started to investigate the most interesting aspect of genome structure - its variations. Variation in DNA sequence is responsible for the genetic component of phenotypic variation (i.e. the component upon which both natural and artificial selection act). Recent studies have started to shed light on sequence variation outside of the genic regions, owing mainly to large insertion/deletion (indel) polymorphisms caused by the presence or absence of transposable elements of different classes. In addition to long terminal repeat retrotransposons, DNA transposons have been shown to be responsible for these polymorphisms. These comprise Helitrons, CACTA and Mu-like elements that are capable of acquiring and piecing together fragments of plant genes and are often expressed. Future analyses of the functional roles of intergenic sequence variation will tell us if we will need to pay more attention not only to genes, but also to the 'junk' DNA surrounding them.
16531052	The rice genome contains at least seven expressed Rop small GTPase genes. Of these Rops, OsRac1 is the only characterized gene that has been implicated in disease resistance as a positive regulator. To our interest in finding a negative ROP regulator of disease resistance in rice, we applied a "phylogeny of function" approach to rice Rops, and identified OsRacB based on its close genetic orthologous relationship with the barley HvRacB gene, a known negative regulator of disease resistance. To determine the function of OsRacB, we isolated the OsRacB cDNA and conducted gene expression and transgenic studies. OsRacB, a single copy gene in the genome of rice, shared 98% identity with HvRacB at the amino acid level. Its mRNA was strongly expressed in leaf sheath (LS) and in panicles, but was very weakly expressed in young and mature leaves. The basal mRNA level of OsRacB in LS of two-week-old seedlings was strongly down-regulated upon wounding by cut and treatment with jasmonic acid. A dramatic down-regulation in the OsRacB transcripts was also found in plants inoculated with the blast pathogen, Magnaporthe grisea. Interestingly, transgenic rice plants over-expressing OsRacB showed increased symptom development in response to rice blast pathogens. Additionally, fluorescence microscopy of green fluorescent protein (GFP):OsRacB-transformed onion cells and Arabidopsis protoplasts revealed OsRacB association with plasma membrane (PM), suggesting that PM localization is required for proper function of OsRacB. Based on these results, we suggest that OsRacB functions as a potential regulator for a basal disease resistance pathway in rice.
16531053	A cDNA encoding an acyl-CoA binding protein (ACBP) homologue has been cloned from a cDNA library made from mRNA isolated from epidermis of young leaves of Agave americana L. The derived amino acid sequence reveals a protein corresponding to the membrane-associated form of ACBPs only previously described in Arabidopsis and rice. Northern blot analysis showed that the A. americana ACBP gene is mainly expressed in the epidermis of mature zone of the leaves. The epidermis of A. americana leaves have a well developed cuticle with the highest amounts of the cuticular components waxes, cutin and cutan suggesting a potential role of the protein in cuticle formation.
16531467	MYB transcription factor genes play important roles in many developmental processes and in various defence responses of plants. Two Arabidopsis R2R3-type MYB genes, AtMYB59 and AtMYB48, were found to undergo similar alternative splicing. Both genes have four distinctively spliced transcripts that encode either MYB-related proteins or R2R3-MYB proteins. An extensive BLAST search of the GenBank database resulted in finding and cloning two rice homologues, both of which were also found to share a similar alternative splicing pattern. In a semi-quantitative study, the expression of one splice variant of AtMYB59 was found to be differentially regulated in treatments with different phytohormones and stresses. GFP fusion protein analysis revealed that both of the two predicted nuclear localization signals (NLSs) in the R3 domain are required for localizing to the nucleus. Promoter-GUS analysis in transgenic plants showed that 5'-UTR is sufficient for the translation initiation of type 3 transcripts (encoding R2R3-MYB proteins), but not for type 2 transcripts (encoding MYB-related proteins). Moreover, a new type of non-canonical intron, with the same nucleotide repeats at the 5' and 3' splice sites, was identified. Thirty-eight Arabidopsis and rice genes were found to have this type of non-canonical intron, most of which undergo alternative splicing. These data suggest that this subgroup of transcription factor genes may be involved in multiple biological processes and may be transcriptionally regulated by alternative splicing.
16531478	Plastid isoprenoids (including hormones and photosynthetic pigments) are essential for plant growth and development, but relatively little is known of how the production of their metabolic precursors via the recently elucidated methylerythritol phosphate (MEP) pathway is regulated. We have identified an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mutant that survives an otherwise lethal block of the MEP pathway with fosmidomycin (FSM). In rif10 (resistant to inhibition with FSM 10) plants, the accumulation of flux-controlling enzymes of the pathway is posttranscriptionally up-regulated. Strikingly, this phenotype is linked to a lower accumulation of plastidial isoprenoid pigments such as chlorophylls and carotenoids, resulting in mutant plants that are paler and smaller than the wild type. The rif10 mutant is impaired in plastid RNA processing due to a T-DNA insertion in the coding region of the At3g03710 gene encoding the chloroplast-targeted exoribonuclease polyribonucleotide phosphorylase. FSM resistance and other rif10-like phenotypes were also observed in wild-type Arabidopsis, tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), and rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings grown in the presence of sublethal concentrations of chloramphenicol (an inhibitor of protein synthesis in plastids). By contrast, treatment with norflurazon (an inhibitor of carotenoid biosynthesis causing a similar pale cotyledon phenotype) did not result in FSM resistance. Together, the results support that plastome-encoded proteins are involved in negatively regulating the posttranscriptional accumulation of specific nuclear-encoded MEP pathway enzymes in chloroplasts. Regulation of the MEP pathway by a mechanism dependent on plastid cues might function under physiological conditions to finely adjust plastidial isoprenoid biosynthesis to the metabolic capabilities or requirements of plastids.
16531481	HYDROPEROXIDE LYASE (HPL) genes encode enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of fatty acid hydroperoxides into aldehydes and oxoacids. There are three HPLs in rice (Oryza sativa), designated OsHPL1 through OsHPL3. To explore the possibility of differential functional activities among these genes, we have examined their expression patterns and biochemical properties of their encoded products. Transcript analysis indicates that these genes have distinct patterns and levels of expression. OsHPL1 is ubiquitously expressed, OsHPL2 is expressed in the leaves and leaf sheaths, whereas OsHPL3 is wound inducible and expressed exclusively in leaves. OsHPLs also differ in their substrate preference as determined by in vitro enzyme assays using 9-/13-hydroperoxy linolenic and 9-/13-hydroperoxy linoleic acids as substrates. OsHPL1 and OsHPL2 metabolize 9-/13-hydroperoxides, whereas OsHPL3 metabolizes 13-hydroperoxy linolenic acid exclusively. Sequence alignments of the HPL enzymes have identified signature residues potentially responsible for the substrate specificity/preference of these enzymes. All three OsHPLs are chloroplast localized as determined by chloroplast import assays and green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion studies. Aldehyde measurements in transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants overexpressing individual OsHPL-GFP fusions indicate that all rice HPLs are functional in a heterologous system, and each of them generates a distinct signature of the metabolites. Interestingly, these aldehydes were only detectable in leaves, but not in roots, despite similar levels of OsHPL-GFP proteins in both tissues. Similarly, there were undetectable levels of aldehydes in rice roots, in spite of the presence of OsHPL1 transcripts. Together, these data suggest that additional tissue-specific mechanism(s) beyond transcript and HPL enzyme abundance, regulate the levels of HPL-derived metabolites.
16532185	Pomacea lineata, an extremely ubiquitous snail and pest to rice farmers throughout Asia, holds promise as a valuable resource for monitoring water quality in northeast Brazil. In this paper, we present data demonstrating the rate of weight gain in P. lineata neonates as a consistent measure of the stress imposed by sublethal concentrations of the herbicides Paraquat and Round-up. Our secondary agenda is to demonstrate the feasibility of incorporating bioassay into the standard municipal and state procedure of monitoring water quality. Growth data to assess chronic toxicity were generated in experiments of four and four, eight, twelve and sixteen days for Paraquat and Round-up, respectively. We estimated a 96 h no observed effect concentration (NOEC) and lowest observed effect concentration (LOEC) for Paraquat of 0.12 and 0.25 mg/L. The 96 h Round-up data yielded NOEC and LOEC values, respectively, of 0.25 and 0.5 mg/L. All concentrations of Round-up tested for the 192 h exposure yielded significantly lower growth than the control. Consequently, no NOEC could be derived. The LOEC was < 0.12 mg/L. Furthermore, there was no mortality during the test. At the lowest concentrations of Paraquat tested (0.005 mg/L) there was a significant increase in growth compared with the controls, suggesting a hormetic effect.
16532527	To reveal the possible mechanism of silica deposition in higher plants, lignin was isolated from rice straw following a modified method to conduct a simulation experiment in vitro. UV and infrared absorption spectra showed that the substance had the unique characteristics of pure lignin. The presence of silicon in the precipitation was revealed by TEM (transmission electron microscopy) with EDXA (energy dispersive X-ray analysis) device. It was found that in the borax solution where lignin precipitation occurred silica-lignin co-precipitation was produced but not in the DMSO solution where lignin was broken into its composition compounds and did not precipitate. This means that it is macromolecular lignin itself but not its compounds that could induce silica deposition in higher plants.
16534952	A collection of 51 Xanthomonas campestris strains from throughout the world was studied to detect and assess genetic diversity among pathogens of small grains. Isolates from barley, bread wheat, bromegrass, canary grass, cassava, maize, orchard grass, rice, rough-stalked meadow grass, rye, timothy, and triticale were analyzed by pathogenicity tests on bread wheat cv. Alondra and barley cv. Corona, indirect immunofluorescence, and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). Three probes were used for the RFLP analysis. They were an acetylaminofluorene-labelled 16S+23S rRNA probe from Escherichia coli and two (sup32)P-labelled restriction fragments from either plasmidic (pBSF2) or chromosomal (pBS8) DNA of X. campestris pv. manihotis. Strains clustered in 9 and 20 groups with the rRNA probe and the pBSF2 DNA probe, respectively. Strains of X. campestris pv. graminis, X. campestris pv. phleipratensis, and X. campestris pv. poae are shown to be related but are also distinguishable by RFLP patterns, serology, and pathogenicity on bread wheat. Strains pathogenic only for barley and not for wheat grouped together. Another group is temporarily designated deviant X. campestris pv. undulosa. These South American isolates from bread wheat did not react by indirect immunofluorescence and produced atypical lesions in pathogenicity tests. The results stress the need to perform pathogenicity tests before strains are named at the pathovar level. The importance of the different probes used for epidemiological studies or phylogenetic studies of closely related strains is underlined.
16534980	Restriction fragment length polymorphism and virulence analyses were used to evaluate the population structure of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the rice bacterial blight pathogen, from several rice-growing countries in Asia. Two DNA sequences from X. oryzae pv. oryzae, IS1112, an insertion sequence, and avrXa10, a member of a family of avirulence genes, were used as probes to analyze the genomes of 308 strains of X. oryzae pv. oryzae collected from China, India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Nepal, and the Philippines. On the basis of the consensus of three clustering statistics, the collection formed five clusters. Genetic distances within the five clusters ranged from 0.16 to 0.51, and distances between clusters ranged from 0.48 to 0.64. Three of the five clusters consisted of strains from a single country. Strains within two clusters, however, were found in more than one country, suggesting patterns of movement of the pathogen. The pathotype of X. oryzae pv. oryzae was determined for 226 strains by inoculating five rice differential cultivars. More than one pathotype was associated with each cluster; however, some pathotypes were associated with only one cluster. Most strains from South Asia (Nepal and India) were virulent to cultivars containing the bacterial blight resistance gene xa-5, while most strains from other countries were avirulent to xa-5. The regional differentiation of clusters of X. oryzae pv. oryzae in Asia and the association of some pathotypes of X. oryzae pv. oryzae with single clusters suggested that strategies that target regional resistance breeding and gene deployment are feasible.
16535167	The assumption that carbon and soil water content are major determinants of microbial community structure and function is rarely questioned because of substantial evidence of the impacts of these variables on specific populations and functions. The significance of carbon and water for metabolic diversity at the microbial community level was tested on the field scale in agricultural plots varying in carbon inputs and in whether they were flooded. Surface soils in which rice straw was incorporated or burned and which were flooded or unflooded were sampled at monthly intervals three times during the flooded winter period (January to March) and again 1 month postdraining. Biomass carbon and nitrogen were not affected by treatments, active bacterial counts showed slight increases, and respiration rates were increased by carbon inputs and flooding. Biolog microplates were inoculated with soil extracts to quantify the metabolic diversity of the soil microbial community. Canonical correspondence analysis and the Monte Carlo permutation testing showed that differences in substrate utilization patterns were significantly related (P < 0.001) to carbon and flooding treatments. Biolog substrates whose metabolism was altered by the treatments were consistent across dates and tended to be positively related (utilization enhancement) to carbon inputs and negatively related to winter flooding. The importance of carbon as an environmental variable increased over time after straw treatment, whereas the importance of water became evident after flooding and decreased after drainage. The effect of long-term rice straw incorporation on substrate utilization patterns at another field site was consistent with these results despite the dissimilarities of the two soils.
16535489	In continuously cropped, irrigated rice fields, soil microbial biomass as measured by total phospholipid fatty acid concentrations declined during the second half of the crop cycle. This decline was also observed in other components of the microbial community assessed by viable counts, including denitrifiers and sporeformers. Simultaneous with total biomass decline was the increase in potential indicators of nutrient stress--such as ratios of cyclopropanol ((Sigma)[cy/(omega)7c]) and trans ((Sigma)[(omega)7t/(omega)7c]) phospholipid fatty acids--in plain crop soil but not in the rhizosphere. Polyhydroxyalkanoate levels were enhanced in the root environment of mature rice. Polyunsaturated eukaryotic biomarkers accounted for only 13 to 16 mol% of the total phospholipids, including 2 mol% of 18:2(omega)6, which is considered a fungal biomarker. Single biomarkers for defined physiological groups of bacteria did not follow the declining trend of total microbial biomass. Signature compounds for gram-positive and gram-negative fermenters (plasmalogen phospholipids), methanogenic bacteria (diether lipids), and methanotrophs (18:1(omega)8c) increased as the crop approached maturity. Methanotrophs were not particularly enriched in the rhizosphere. Methanogenic biomarkers were, however, most abundant in root extracts from mature rice plants. Assuming that soil microbial biomass plays a significant role as a passive nutrient pool, its reduction during the second half of the cropping season suggests a mechanism that may ultimately contribute to declining productivity in irrigated, continuous rice cropping systems.
16535562	The activity and distribution of CH(inf4)-oxidizing bacteria (MOB) in flooded rice (Oryza sativa) soil microcosms was investigated. CH(inf4) oxidation was shown to occur in undisturbed microcosms by using (sup14)CH(inf4), and model calculations indicated that almost 90% of the oxidation measured had taken place at a depth where only roots could provide the O(inf2) necessary. Slurry from soil planted with rice had an apparent K(infm) for CH(inf4) of 4 (mu)M and a V(infmax) of 0.1 (mu)mol g (dry weight)(sup-1) h(sup-1). At a depth of 1 to 2 cm, there was no significant difference (P > 0.05) in numbers of MOB between soil from planted and nonplanted microcosms (mean, 7.7 x 10(sup5) g [fresh weight](sup-1)). Thus, the densely rooted soil at 1 to 2 cm deep did not represent rhizospheric soil with respect to the number of MOB. A significantly increased number of MOB was found only in soil immediately around the roots (1.2 x 10(sup6) g [fresh weight](sup-1)), corresponding to a layer of 0.1 to 0.2 mm. Plant-associated CH(inf4) oxidation was shown in a double chamber with carefully washed intact rice plants. Up to 90% of the CH(inf4) supplied to the root compartment was oxidized in the plants. CH(inf4) oxidation on isolated roots was higher and had a larger variability than that in soil slurries. Roots had an apparent K(infm) for CH(inf4) of 6 (mu)M and a V(infmax) of 5 (mu)mol g (dry weight)(sup-1) h(sup-1). The average number of MOB in homogenized roots was larger than on the rhizoplane and increased with plant age. MOB also were found in surface-sterilized roots and basal culms, indicating the ability of these bacteria to colonize the interior of roots and culms.
16535573	Insecticidal activity and receptor binding properties of Bacillus thuringiensis toxins to yellow and striped rice stem borers (Sciropophaga incertulas and Chilo suppresalis, respectively) were investigated. Yellow stem borer (YSB) was susceptible to Cry1Aa, Cry1Ac, Cry2A, and Cry1C toxins with similar toxicities. To striped stem borer (SSB), Cry1Ac, Cry2A, and Cry1C were more toxic than Cry1Aa toxin. Binding assays were performed with (sup125)I-labeled toxins (Cry1Aa, Cry1Ac, Cry2A, and Cry1C) and brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV) prepared from YSB and SSB midguts. Both Cry1Aa and Cry1Ac toxins showed saturable, high-affinity binding to YSB BBMV. Cry2A and Cry1C toxins bound to YSB BBMV with relatively low binding affinity but with high binding site concentration. To SSB, both Cry1Aa and Cry1Ac exhibited high binding affinity, although these toxins are less toxic than Cry1C and Cry2A. Cry1C and Cry2A toxins bound to SSB BBMV with relatively low binding affinity but with high binding site concentration. Heterologous competition binding assays were performed to investigate the binding site cross-reactivity. The results showed that Cry1Aa and Cry1Ac recognize the same binding site, which is different from the Cry2A or Cry1C binding site in YSB and SSB. These data suggest that development of multitoxin systems in transgenic rice with toxin combinations which recognize different binding sites may be useful in implementing deployment strategies that decrease the rate of pest adaptation to B. thuringiensis toxin-expressing rice varieties.
16535599	Gibberella fujikuroi strains isolated from rice in the United States, Asia, and other geographic areas were tested for sexual fertility with members of mating population D and for production of fumonisin B(inf1) and moniliformin in culture. Of the 59 field strains tested, 32 (54%) were able to cross with tester strains of mating population D, but only a few ascospores were produced in most of these crosses. Thirty-four strains produced more than 10 (mu)g of fumonisin B(inf1) per g, but only three strains produced more than 1000 (mu)g/g. Twenty-five strains produced more than 100 (mu)g of moniliformin per g, and 15 produced more than 1,000 (mu)g/g. Seven field strains produced both fumonisin B(inf1) and moniliformin, but none of these strains produced a high level of fumonisin B(inf1) (>1,000 (mu)g/g). However, a genetic cross between a strain that produced fumonisin B(inf1) but no moniliformin and a strain that produced moniliformin but no fumonisin B(inf1) yielded progeny that produced high levels of both toxins. Strains of G. fujikuroi isolated from rice infected with bakanae disease are similar to strains of mating population D isolated from maize in their ability to produce both fumonisins and moniliformin. This finding suggests a potential for contamination of rice with both fumonisins and moniliformin.
16536553	Microwave-assisted polymerization has been utilized to synthesize amphiphilic poly(2-ethyl-2-oxazoline-block-2-"soy alkyl"-2-oxazoline) diblock copolymers (PEtOx-PSoyOx). The amphiphilic block copolymers have been used to prepare aqueous spherical micelles consisting of a PEtOx corona and a PSoyOx core, which have been further cross-linked by UV irradiation. The morphology of these cross-linked micelles has been shown to reversibly change from spheres to short rods referred to as rice grains whenever the micelles were transferred from water into acetone, a nonselective solvent for the constituent blocks. This morphological transition has been attributed to the swelling of the slightly cross-linked PSoyOx core.
16536613	A cyclomaltodextrinase (CDase) isolated from alkalophilic Bacillus sp. I-5 (CDase I-5) exists in a dodecameric form, an assembly of six dimers, each catalytic site of which is located in a narrow groove at the interface of the dimeric unit. Because of the unique geometric shape of the catalytic site, the enzyme has the ability to discriminate the molecular size of substrates. An analysis of the hydrolysis reaction of the enzyme revealed that its kcat/Km value on amylose was 14.6 s(-1) (mg/mL)(-1), whereas that for amylopectin was 0.92 s(-1) (mg/mL)(-1), showing an exceptionally high preference toward amylose. CDase I-5 was applied to modify the starch structure to produce low-amylose starch products by incubating rice starch with this enzyme. We found that the amylose content of rice starch decreased from 28.5 to 9%, while the amylopectin content remained almost constant with no significant change in the side chain length distribution. When the CDase I-5-treated rice starch was stored at 4 degrees C for 7 days, the retrogradation rate was significantly retarded as compared to that in the control sample.
16536614	Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), with either 50 mM LiBr, 10% water, or both, was used as solvent for multi-angle laser-light scattering (MALLS) batch mode analysis of rice starch, and amylopectin and amylose weight-average molecular weight (Mw). DMSO/50 mM LiBr was a better solvent for these measurements than was DMSO/10% water, based on this solvent's ability to dissolve starch and to reduce the size of starch aggregates. Starch concentration decreased and amylose:amylopectin ratio increased when starch suspended in DMSO was centrifuged or filtered prior to size-exclusion chromatography (SEC)-MALLS analysis. A higher amylose:amylopectin ratio made starch more soluble, and the higher this ratio, the lower the Mw of eluted amylopectin. For SEC analysis of Mw, fractions of starch amylopectin and amylose dispersed in DMSO-based solvents yielded better results than starch dispersed directly into the solvents, because dispersion of these fractions decreased starch aggregation. When these two starch components were fractionated and then dissolved separately in DMSO/50 mM LiBr, the Mw of dispersed amylopectin ranged from 40 to 50 million, and that of amylose was ca. 3 million, whereas starch from three rice varieties of varying amylose content ranged from 60 to 130 million. We recommend that SEC evaluation of amylopectin and amylose be accomplished with fractionated samples as in this study; such evaluations were superior to evaluations of natural mixtures of amylopectin and amylose.
16536630	The effect of pressure cooking on aflatoxin residues in polished rice was conducted to determine reduction of aflatoxin and mutagenic potentials. Three rice lots consisting of naturally contaminated, A. parasiticus-infested, and aflatoxin-spiked rice were steamed by ordinary and pressure cookers after they were washed with water. They were chemically analyzed for aflatoxins using a silica solid phase extraction tube and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-fluorescence detection (FD), and the presence of aflatoxin residues was confirmed using HPLC-electrospray ionization (ESI)-mass spectrometry (MS). An in vitro mutagenicity test with Salmonella typhimurium TA100 was employed to verify the results based on chemical analyses. The aflatoxin loss (78-88%) was notable after pressure cooking, and the reduction of aflatoxin-induced mutagenic potential (68-78%) was in good agreement with the HPLC results. It can be concluded that Koreans are safe from the aflatoxin-related risk if a pressure cooker is employed for cooking rice. The average Korean daily intake of aflatoxin through the consumption of staple rice would fall to 0.15 ng/kg bw/day, which would not exceed the established tolerable daily intake (0.40 ng/kg bw/day).
16537113	MAPK signal transduction modules play crucial roles in regulating many biological processes in plants, and their components are encoded by highly conserved genes. The recent availability of genome sequences for rice and poplar now makes it possible to examine how well the previously described Arabidopsis MAPK and MAPKK gene family structures represent the broader evolutionary situation in plants, and analysis of gene expression data for MPK and MKK genes in all three species allows further refinement of those families, based on functionality. The Arabidopsis MAPK nomenclature appears sufficiently robust to allow it to be usefully extended to other well-characterized plant systems.
16537167	Dwyer's medium is a frequently employed culture medium for Histomonas meleagridis with rice powder as an essential ingredient. The effect of adding larger quantities of rice powder to the culture medium and the influence of the size of the rice particles on the growth of H. meleagridis was examined. Increasing the amount of rice powder from the standard amount of 10 to 12 mg to 50 to 100 mg per 12.5 ml medium resulted in approximately a 10-fold increase of parasites. Larger quantities of rice powder did not give better yields. The particle size of the rice powder proved relatively unimportant, although the addition of only large rice powder particles (>250 microm) resulted in a somewhat lesser yield. H. meleagridis cultures could be prolonged from approximately 4 days to at least 2 weeks without subculturing by supplementing the culture medium with rice powder only.
1653748	Glucose-stimulated sodium absorption is the rationale for treatment with glucose-based oral rehydration solution in diarrhea. Concurrent treatment with pharmacological inhibitors, which specifically block chloride secretion, may be a useful adjunct to oral fluid therapy. To examine this hypothesis, the authors determined the intestinal water and ion transport rates in rat small intestine during the secretory phase induced by perfusion with N6-2'-0-dibutyryl adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (dbcAMP), 1.0 mmol/L. A marker (polyethylene glycol 4000) dilution technique was used to evaluate the antisecretory effects of a defined short-chain glucose polymer, D-glucose, and a chloride channel blocker, anthracene-9-carboxylic acid (A-9-C). The results showed that dbcAMP induced small intestinal water and chloride ion secretion rapidly and reliably. The 2.5% concentration of rice short glucose polymer (G2, 22.7%; G3, 28.2%; G4, 14.0%; G5, 16.6%; G6, 11.6%; G7-9, 6.9%) is a better carbohydrate than the 2.5% concentration of D-glucose in reversing secretion of water, chloride, and sodium ions induced by dbcAMP. The combination of A-9-C and the glucose polymer can reverse dbcAMP-induced intestinal secretion and produces significantly (P less than 0.05) better antisecretory effect on water, sodium, and chloride ions than D-glucose with A-9-C.
16537502	Wheat ESTs mapped to deletion bins in the distal 42% of the long arm of chromosome 4B (4BL) were ordered in silico based on blastn homology against rice pseudochromosome 3. The ESTs spanned 29 cM on the short arm of rice chromosome 3, which is known to be syntenic to long arms of group-4 chromosomes of wheat. Fine-scale deletion-bin and genetic mapping revealed that 83% of ESTs were syntenic between wheat and rice, a far higher level of synteny than previously reported, and 6% were nonsyntenic (not located on rice chromosome 3). One inversion spanning a 5-cM region in rice and three deletion bins in wheat was identified. The remaining 11% of wheat ESTs showed no sequence homology in rice and mapped to the terminal 5% of the wheat chromosome 4BL. In this region, 27% of ESTs were duplicated, and it accounted for 70% of the recombination in the 4BL arm. Globally in wheat, no sequence homology ESTs mapped to the terminal bins, and ESTs rarely mapped to interstitial chromosomal regions known to be recombination hot spots. The wheat-rice comparative genomics analysis indicated that gene evolution occurs preferentially at the ends of chromosomes, driven by duplication and divergence associated with high rates of recombination.
16539517	Physical properties of condensed-phase 1,3,3-trinitroazetidine (TNAZ) have been computed with molecular dynamics (MD) and a nonreactive, fully flexible force field formulated by combining the intramolecular interactions obtained from the Generalized AMBER Force Field and the rigid-molecule force field developed by Sorescu-Rice-Thompson [J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 798] (AMBER-SRT). The results are compared with MD calculations, using the AMBER force field. The predicted densities of crystalline TNAZ from both force fields are about 10% lower than the experimental value. The calculated thermodynamic melting point at 1 atm from the AMBER-SRT force field is 390 K, in good agreement with the measured value of 374 K, while the AMBER force field predicts a thermodynamic melting point of 462 K. The lattice parameters and the molecular and crystal structures calculated with the AMBER-SRT force field are in excellent agreement with experiment. Simulations with the AMBER-SRT force field were also used to generate the isotherm of TNAZ up to 4 GPa and the bulk modulus and its pressure derivative.
16539615	With a small and sequenced genome, rice provides an excellent system for studying the genetics of cereal domestication. We conducted a quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of key domestication traits using an F2 population derived from a cross between the cultivated rice, Oryza sativa, and the annual wild species, O. nivara. We found that the QTL of large phenotypic effects were targeted by domestication selection for effective harvest and planting, including a reduction in seed shattering and seed dormancy and the synchronization of seed maturation. Selection for higher yield was probably responsible for the fixation of mutations at a cluster of QTL on chromosome 7 and a few other chromosomal locations that could have substantially improved plant architecture and panicle structure, resulting in fewer erect tillers and longer and more highly branched panicles in cultivated rice. In comparison with the wild perennial species, O. rufipogon, rice domestication from O. nivara would have involved QTL with a greater degree of chromosomal co-localization and required little genetic change associated with life history or mating system transitions. The genetic analyses of domestication traits with both wild relatives will open opportunities for the improvement of rice cultivars utilizing natural germplasm.
16540337	The effects of cadmium (from 7.5 to 75 microM) on chloroplasts of rice were studied at the structural and biochemical level. Loss of pigments, reduction of thylakoids and decrease in oxygen evolution and Fv/Fm ratio occur in leaves following cadmium treatment. However, the amount of photosystem II reaction center proteins and that of its light harvesting complex is not affected, indicating that cadmium does not adversely influence the structural organization of this photosystem. In thylakoids isolated from cadmium-treated plants a loss in the capability to reduce 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol is observed, which is partially restored if diphenylcarbazide is used as an electron donor, indicating that cadmium affects water splitting activity. In thylakoids isolated from control plants and treated with cadmium, diphenylcarbazide preserves most of the photosystem II activity lost after incubation with cadmium; most of the S(2) multiline electron paramagnetic resonance signal from the manganese cluster is lost, whereas the TyrD(+) and other signals are retained. Light-induced photosystem II damage, in vitro, is promoted by Cd-treatment as deduced from the mobility shift of the D1 protein observed by immunoblot.
16540543	Galacturonosyltransferases (GalATs) are required for the synthesis of pectin, a family of complex polysaccharides present in the cell walls of all land plants. We report the identification of a pectin GalAT (GAUT1) using peptide sequences obtained from Arabidopsis thaliana proteins partially purified for homogalacturonan (HG) alpha-1,4-GalAT activity. Transient expression of GAUT1 cDNA in the human embryonic kidney cell line HEK293 yielded uridine diphosphogalacturonic acid:GalAT activity. Polyclonal antibodies generated against GAUT1 immunoabsorbed HG alpha-1,4-GalAT activity from Arabidopsis solubilized membrane proteins. blast analysis of the Arabidopsis genome identified a family of 25 genes with high sequence similarity to GAUT1 and homologous genes in other dicots, in rice, and in Physcomitrella. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic Bayesian analysis of the Arabidopsis GAUT1-related gene family separates them into four related clades of GAUT and GAUT-like genes that are distinct from the other Arabidopsis members of glycosyltransferase family 8. The identification of GAUT1 as a HG GalAT and of the GAUT1-related gene family provides the genetic and biochemical tools required to study the function of these genes in pectin synthesis.
16541124	The genomic structures of Oryza sativa (A genome) and O. meyeriana (G genome) were comparatively studied using bicolor genomic in situ hybridization (GISH). GISH was clearly able to discriminate between the chromosomes of O. sativa and O. meyeriana in the interspecific F1 hybrids without blocking DNA, and co-hybridization was hardly detected. The average mitotic chromosome length of O. meyeriana was found to be 1.69 times that of O. sativa. A comparison of 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining showed that the chromosomes of O. meyeriana were more extensively labelled, suggesting that the G genome is amplified with more repetitive sequences than the A genome. In interphase nuclei, 9-12 chromocenters were normally detected and nearly all the chromocenters constituted the G genome-specific DNA. More and larger chromocenters formed by chromatin compaction corresponding to the G genome were detected in the hybrid compared with its parents. During pachytene of the F1 hybrid, most chromosomes of A and G did not synapse each other except for 1-2 chromosomes paired at the end of their arms. At meiotic metaphase I, three types of chromosomal associations, i.e. O. sativa-O. sativa (A-A), O. sativa-O. meyeriana (A-G) and O. meyeriana-O. meyeriana (G-G), were observed in the F1 hybrid. The A-G chromosome pairing configurations included bivalents and trivalents. The results provided a foundation toward studying genome organization and evolution of O. meyeriana.
16541125	During vegetative development, higher plants continuously form new leaves in regular spatial and temporal patterns. Mutants with abnormal leaf developmental patterns not only provide a great insight into understanding the regulatory mechanism of plant architecture, but also enrich the ways to its modification by which crop yield could be improved. Here, we reported the characterization of the rice leafy-head2 (lhd2) mutant that exhibits shortened plastochron, dwarfism, reduced tiller number, and failure of phase transition from vegetative to reproductive growth. Anatomical and histological study revealed that the rapid emergence of leaves in lhd2 was resulted from the rapid initiation of leaf primordia whereas the reduced tiller number was a consequence of the suppression of the tiller bud outgrowth. The molecular and genetic analysis showed that LHD2 encodes a putative RNA binding protein with 67% similarity to maize TE1. Comparison of genome-scale expression profiles between wild-type and lhd2 plants suggested that LHD2 may regulate rice shoot development through KNOX and hormone-related genes. The similar phenotypes caused by LHD2 mutation and the conserved expression pattern of LHD2 indicated a conserved mechanism in controlling the temporal leaf initiation in grass.
16541126	Plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs) are a subfamily of aquaporins that enable fast and controlled translocation of water across the membrane. In this study, we systematically identified and cloned ten PIP genes from rice. Based on the similarity of the amino acid sequences they encoded, these rice PIP genes were classified into two groups and designated as OsPIP1-1 to OsPIP1-3 and OsPIP2-1 to OsPIP2-7 following the nomenclature of PIP genes in maize. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis identified three root-specific and one leaf-specific OsPIP genes. Furthermore, the expression profile of each OsPIP gene in response to salt, drought and ABA treatment was examined in detail. Analysis on transgenic plants over-expressing of either OsPIP1 (OsPIP1-1) or OsPIP2 (OsPIP2-2) in wild-type Arabidopsis, showed enhanced tolerance to salt (100 mM of NaCl) and drought (200 mM of mannitol), but not to salt treatment of higher concentration (150 mM of NaCl). Taken together, these data suggest a distinct role of each OsPIP gene in response to different stresses, and should add a new layer to the understanding of the physiological function of rice PIP genes.
16541127	By reducing cysteine-sulfinic acid in oxidized peroxiredoxin, sulfiredoxin (Srx) plays an important role in oxidation stress resistance in yeast and human cells. Here, we report the first molecular and functional characterization of Srx homolog from higher plants. Bioinformatic analysis revealed the presence of potential Srx encoding sequences in both monocot and dicot plant species. Putative plant Srx proteins exhibited significant identities to their orthologs from yeast and human, and contained the conserved signature sequence and residues essential for catalysis. However, unlike yeast and human orthologs, plant Srxs were all predicted to possess chloroplast transit peptide in their primary structure. The Srx proteins from Arabidopsis and rice (designated as AtSrx and OsSrx, respectively) complemented functional deficiency of Srx in the SRX1 deletion yeast cells. A GFP fusion protein of AtSrx was targeted to chloroplast in Arabidopsis mesophyll protoplast. AtSrx transcription occurred in both vegetative and reproductive organs, and the highest transcript level was detected in leaves. Under oxidation stress, AtSrx transcript level was substantially increased, which paralleled with enhanced transcription of 2-Cys peroxiredoxins that have been found essential in maintaining chloroplast redox balance. In addition to oxidation stress, osmotic/water deficit or cold treatments also raised AtSrx transcript level. Consistent with above findings, the knock-out mutant of AtSrx was significantly more susceptible to oxidation stress than wild type Arabidopsis plant. Taken together, the results of this work indicate the existence of functional Srx homolog in higher plants that is essential for plants to cope with oxidation stress.
16541159	Certain plant-associated strains of fluorescent Pseudomonas spp. are known to produce the antimicrobial antibiotic 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (DAPG). It has antibacterial, antifungal, antiviral, and antihelminthic properties and has played a significant role in the biological control of tobacco, wheat, and sugar beet diseases. It has never been reported from India and has not been implicated in the biological suppression of a major disease of the rice crop. Here, we report that a subpopulation of 27 strains of plant-associated Pseudomonas fluorescens screened in a batch of 278 strains of fluorescent pseudomonads produced DAPG. The DAPG production was detected by a PCR-based screening method that used primers Phl2a and Phl2b and amplified a 745-bp fragment characteristic of DAPG. HPLC, 1H NMR, and IR analyses provided further evidence for its production. We report also that this compound inhibited the growth of the devastating rice bacterial blight pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae in laboratory assays and suppressed rice bacterial blight up to 59%-64% in net-house and field experiments. Tn5 mutants defective in DAPG production (Phl-) of P. fluorescens PTB 9 were much less effective in their suppression of rice bacterial blight.
16541736	A strong radical-scavenging activity against a stable radical compound, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) was found in the hot water extract of Japanese rice bran. When the extract was treated with ethanol, a dominant radical-scavenging activity was observed in the ethanol-soluble (ES) fraction in a dose-dependent manner, but a weak radical-scavenging activity was detected in the ethanol-precipitable (EP) fraction. Their activities were proportional to the amounts of phenolic substances in each fraction. The phenolic substances in the ES fraction were efficiently separated by Amberlite XAD column chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography using an ODS column. The four major phenolic acids (ferulic, para-coumaric, para-hydroxybenzoic and vanillic acids) and four minor phenolic acids (caffeic, gentisic, protocatechuic and syringic acids) were detected in the HPLC system. Among these phenolic acids, protocatechuic, caffeic, ferulic and gentisic acids showed relatively strong radical scavenging activities (EC50: 8, 9, 29 and 75 microM, respectively) compared with the control antioxidants such as ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol (EC50: 93 and 134 microM). Para-coumaric, syringic and vanillic acids exhibited weak but significant radical-scavenging activities (EC50: 780, 2640 and 3250 microM). However, para-hydroxybenzoic acid did not show any significant effects even at 5 mM. Furthermore, a simulated mixture combined with these phenolic acids in comparable amounts in the ES fraction showed slightly weak radical-scavenging activity compared with that of rice bran extract. However, all the phenolic acids detected in the ES fraction did not show significant antioxidant activities against hydroperoxide generation in lipid peroxidation compared with that of a typical antioxidant such as ascorbic acid, which was estimated by the alminum chloride method. These results suggest that Japanese rice bran has a potent radical-scavenging activity against DPPH radical and this activity is associated with some phenolic acids in the ES fraction. The significance of this finding is discussed from the viewpoint of the protective role of rice bran against oxygen radical-induced chronic diseases.
16542074	Monte Carlo (MC) simulations can be used to compute microcanonical statistical rates of gas phase dissociation reactions. Unfortunately, the MC approach may suffer from a slow convergence and large statistical errors for energies just above the dissociation threshold. In this work, umbrella sampling is proposed as a device to reduce the statistical error of MC rate constants. The method is tested by computing the classical dissociation rate for the reaction [H5O2+]* --> H2O + H3O(+) over the range of internal energy 38 < E < or = 100 kcal/mol. Comparing with other literature methods, it is found that umbrella sampling reduces the computational effort by up to two orders of magnitude when used in conjunction with a careful choice of sampling distributions. The comparison between MC rate constants and classical Rice-Ramsperberg-Kassel harmonic theory shows that anharmonicity plays an important role in the dissociation process of the Zundel cation (H5O2+) at all energies.
16542451	Despite evidence suggesting a role in plant defence, the use of plant lectins in crop protection has been hindered by their low and species-specific insecticidal activity. Snowdrop lectin (Galanthus nivalis agglutinin; GNA) is transported to the haemolymph of insects after oral ingestion, and can be used as a basis for novel insecticides. Recombinant proteins containing GNA expressed as a fusion with a peptide or protein, normally only toxic when injected into the insect haemolymph, have the potential to show oral toxicity as a result of GNA-mediated uptake. A gene encoding a toxin, ButaIT, from the red scorpion (Mesobuthus tamulus) was synthesised and assembled into expression constructs. One construct contained ButaIT alone, whereas the other contained ButaIT fused N-terminally to a GNA polypeptide (ButaIT/GNA). Both recombinant proteins were produced using the yeast Pichia pastoris as an expression host, and purified. Recombinant ButaIT and ButaIT/GNA were acutely toxic when injected into larvae of tomato moth (Lacanobia oleracea), causing slow paralysis, leading to mortality or decreased growth. ButaIT/GNA was chronically toxic when fed to L. oleracea larvae, causing decreased survival and weight gain under conditions where GNA alone was effectively non-toxic. Intact ButaIT/GNA was detected in larval haemolymph from insects fed the fusion protein orally, demonstrating transport of the linked polypeptide across the gut. Proteolysis of the fusion protein was also observed. ButaIT/GNA was significantly more toxic that GNA alone when fed to the homopteran Nilaparvata lugens (rice brown planthopper) in liquid artificial diet. The ButaIT/GNA recombinant fusion protein is toxic to lepidopteran larvae both when injected and when fed orally, showing the utility of GNA as a carrier to transport potentially toxic peptides and proteins across the insect gut. Although ButaIT has been claimed to be lepidopteran-specific, the fusion protein has more wide-ranging insecticidal activity. Fusion proteins based on plant lectins have potential applications in crop protection, both as exogenously applied treatments and as endogenous products in transgenic plants.
16542457	Oxytocin is released in response to a meal. Further, mRNA for oxytocin and its receptor have been found throughout the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The aim of this study was therefore to examine whether oxytocin, or the receptor antagonist atosiban, influence the gastric emptying. Ten healthy volunteers (five men) were examined regarding gastric emptying at three different occasions: once during oxytocin stimulation using a pharmacological dose; once during blockage of the oxytocin receptors (which also blocks the vasopressin receptors) and thereby inhibiting physiological doses of oxytocin; and once during saline infusion. Gastric emptying rate (GER) was assessed and expressed as the percentage reduction in antral cross-sectional area from 15 to 90 min after ingestion of rice pudding. The assessment was performed by real-time ultrasonography. At the same time, the feeling of satiety was registered using visual satiety scores. Inhibition of the binding of endogenous oxytocin by the receptor antagonist delayed the GER by 37 % compared to saline (p = 0.037). In contrast, infusion of oxytocin in a dosage of 40 mU/min did not affect the GER (p = 0.610). Satiation scores areas in healthy subjects after receiving atosiban or oxytocin did not show any significant differences. Oxytocin and/or vasopressin seem to be regulators of gastric emptying during physiological conditions, since the receptor antagonist atosiban delayed the GER. However, the actual pharmacological dose of oxytocin in this study had no effect. The effect of oxytocin and vasopressin on GI motility has to be further evaluated.
16545151	Coordinated expression of embryo and endosperm tissues is required for proper seed development. The coordination among these two tissues is controlled by the interaction between multiple genes expressed in the embryo and endosperm genomes. In this article, we present a statistical model for testing whether quantitative trait loci (QTL) active in different genomes, diploid embryo and triploid endosperm, epistatically affect a trait expressed on the endosperm tissue. The maximum likelihood approach, implemented with the EM algorithm, was derived to provide the maximum likelihood estimates of the locations of embryo- and endosperm-specific QTL and their main effects and epistatic effects. This model was used in a real example for rice in which two QTL, one from the embryo genome and the other from the endosperm genome, exert a significant interaction effect on gel consistency on the endosperm. Our model has successfully detected Waxy, a candidate gene in the embryo genome known to regulate one of the major steps of amylose biosynthesis in the endosperm. This model will have great implications for agricultural and evolutionary genetic research.
16545363	Delta-Notch and FGF signaling are involved in the control of somitogenesis in zebrafish. her genes are generally known as downstream targets of Delta-Notch signaling, but the her13.2 gene from zebrafish has recently been shown to depend on FGF signaling only. We have here studied the functional role of her13.2 in conjunction with her genes that are under Delta-Notch control. We show that joint inactivation of her1 and her13.2 leads to a complete loss of all somitic borders, including the most anterior ones. This somitic phenotype is much stronger than would be expected from the effects of the inactivation of either gene alone. A joint inactivation of her13.2 and her7, which is a paralogue of her1, does not show this enhanced effect. Thus, our results confirm inferences from in vitro studies that her1 and her13.2 form specific heterodimers, which may directly be required for regulating further target genes. These two her genes thus constitute the link between Delta-Notch pathway and FGF signaling during entire somitogenesis. We show that this interaction is conserved in the rice fish medaka, as a joint inactivation of the respective orthologues leads also to the same phenotype as in zebrafish. In addition, our results suggest that the mechanisms for anterior and posterior somite formation are not principally different, although the anterior somites often seem more refractory to genetic perturbations.
16545954	In this study, rock phosphate enriched composts (RP-compost) were prepared by mixing four low-grade Indian rock phosphates with rice straw with and without Aspergillus awamori. RP-compost had higher total P, citrate soluble P (CSP), organic P (Org.P), acid and alkaline phosphatase activities, and lower water soluble P (WSP) and microbial biomass C (MBC) than normal compost. Inoculation with A. awamori increased total P, WSP, CSP, Org.P, MBC and acid phosphatase activity. RP-compost recorded lower Olsen P at the initial period of incubation study than diammonium phosphate (DAP), but improved significantly with the progress of time. RP-compost prepared at 4% charged rate resulted in higher Olsen P throughout the incubation period compared to 2% charged rate. Similar trend were obtained with those RP-composts prepared with A. awamori. Data on pot experiment revealed higher yield and P uptake by mungbean (Vigna radiata) due to addition of RP-composts over control. The effectiveness of RP-compost ranged from 61.4% (MussoorieRP-compost) to 94.1% (PuruliaRP-compost) as that of DAP on dry matter yield and 48.8% (JhabuaRP-compost) to 83.7% (PuruliaRP-compost) on total P uptake. Enriched compost prepared at 4% charged rate recorded 15.8% and 10.6% extra yield and P uptake, respectively by mungbean over 2% charged compost. Also RP-compost inoculated with A. awamori resulted in 13.0 and 21.5% extra yield and P uptake than without A. awamori treated group. Thus, RP enriched compost could be an alternative and viable technology to utilize both low-grade RPs and rice straw efficiently.
16546358	We isolated and characterized BMK1, a gene encoding a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), from the rice leaf spot pathogen Bipolaris oryzae. The deduced amino acid sequence showed significant homology with Fus3/Kss1 MAPK homologues from other phytopathogenic fungi. The BMK1 disruptants showed impaired hyphal growth, no conidial production, and loss of virulence against rice leaves, indicating that the BMK1 is essential for conidiation and pathogenicity in B. oryzae.
16546516	This study evaluates background serum levels of selected organochlorine compounds among Japanese women of reproductive age and investigates whether lifestyle factors, especially dietary factors, may be associated with these levels. A cross-sectional study was performed on 80 Japanese women, aged 26-43 years, who complained of infertility and were confirmed not to have endometriosis. The serum levels of total toxic equivalency (TEQ), 18 polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs)/polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), 4 coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (cPCBs), 36 ortho-substituted polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and 13 chlorinated pesticides or their metabolites were measured and data were collected on the women's age, residence, occupation, body mass index (BMI), smoking and alcohol habit and 6 dietary intakes (fish, meats, rice, vegetables, fruits and dairy products). The serum median level of total TEQ was 25.1 pg TEQ/g lipid, that of PCDDs/PCDFs/cPCBs was 11.5 pmol/g lipid, that of PCBs was 0.46 nmol/g lipid, and that of total pesticides was 1.32 nmol/g lipid. The serum levels of total TEQ, PCDDs/PCDFs/cPCBs, PCBs and pesticides were positively associated with age (P for trend=0.003, 0.01, 0.005 and 0.01, respectively) and frequent fish consumption (P for trend=0.002, 0.003, 0.0003 and 0.006, respectively). Other lifestyle factors were not associated with serum organochlorine levels. The present study suggests that Japanese women who consume fish frequently in their reproductive period tend to accumulate organochlorines in their bodies.
16546887	Under a multi-centre study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research, 1,511 samples of parboiled rice were collected from rural and urban areas of 11 states representing different geographical regions of India. These samples were analysed for contamination with aflatoxin B(1.) The presence of aflatoxin B(1) at levels=5 microg g(-1) was found in 38.5% of the total number of samples of the parboiled rice. About 17% of the total samples showed the presence of aflatoxin B(1) above the Indian regulatory limit of 30 microg kg(-1). No statistically significant difference in percentage of samples contaminated with >30 microg kg(-1) was observed between pooled rural (19.4%) and urban (14.5%) data. A median value of 15 microg kg(-1) of aflatoxin B(1) was observed in samples from Assam, Bihar and Tripura. In all other states surveyed the median value was <5 microg?kg(-1).
16546890	Contamination of foods with trimethyldiphenylmethanes is reported and the origin is shown to be migration from food packaging materials of which the use of recycled carbonless copy paper was found to be the major source. This chemical is one of the solvents used in the carbonless copy paper and its presence in food and the environment has not been previously identified. In this paper we have pursued previous studies on diisopropylnaphthalenes and hydrogenated terphenyls contamination from packaging and now report the identification of this new food contaminant and present evidence of its source. Solid foods such as egg pasta, barley coffee and rice were analysed by GC/MS and a mean concentration of 18 microg/kg of trimethyldiphenylmethanes was found. Extracts from carbonless copy paper were analysed by proton NMR to characterize the trimethyldiphenylmethanes. Since trimethyldiphenylmethanes are found in solid food together with diisopropylnaphthalenes, and considering their similar chemical character, they may follow the same migration pathway as one another.
16547098	Rice (Oryza sativa) was cultivated by Asian Neolithic farmers >11,000 years ago, and different cultures have selected for divergent starch qualities in the rice grain during and after the domestication process. An intron 1 splice donor site mutation of the Waxy gene is responsible for the absence of amylose in glutinous rice varieties. This mutation appears to have also played an important role in the origin of low amylose, nonglutinous temperate japonica rice varieties, which form a primary component of Northeast Asian cuisines. Waxy DNA sequence analyses indicate that the splice donor mutation is prevalent in temperate japonica rice varieties, but rare or absent in tropical japonica, indica, aus, and aromatic varieties. Sequence analysis across a 500-kb genomic region centered on Waxy reveals patterns consistent with a selective sweep in the temperate japonicas associated with the mutation. The size of the selective sweep (>250 kb) indicates very strong selection in this region, with an inferred selection coefficient that is higher than similar estimates from maize domestication genes or wild species. These findings demonstrate that selection pressures associated with crop domestication regimes can exceed by one to two orders of magnitude those observed for genes under even strong selection in natural systems.
16547147	The concentrations of (238)U and (226)Ra were determined in different foodstuffs purchased from markets in Tehran. Determinations of the radionuclides have been carried out using alpha spectrometry technique, on samples of egg, lentil, potato, rice, soya, spinach, tea and wheat. Average concentrations of natural radionuclides and foodstuff consumption rate were used to assess annual intake and based on intake values, the annual effective ingestion dose has been estimated for Tehran city residents. The measurement results show that soya has the maximum concentration of (238)U equal to 15.6 +/- 2.6 mBq kg(-1) and tea has the maximum concentration of (226)Ra equal to 1153.3 +/- 265.3 mBq kg(-1). Besides, the maximum annual effective dose from (238)U and (226)Ra were assessed to be 2.88 x 10(-2) +/- 7.20 x 10(-3) and 2.15 +/- 0.54 muSv, respectively, from wheat samples.
16547764	Two wetland plant species, Phragmites australis and Oryza sativa, were grown in a glasshouse under hydroponics conditions. Enzyme extracts from different parts of the plants were used to determine the transformation rate of o,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDT and PCBs. The organic pollutants were directly spiked into the enzyme extracts, and samples were collected every 30 min and analyzed with a GC-ECD. Root extracts of P. australis readily degraded and transformed DDT and some PCB congeners with a low degree of chlorination. In contrast, crude extracts of O. sativa showed no appreciable degradation or transformation of DDT or PCBs. Inhibition studies indicated that the degradation and transformation of both DDT and PCBs by P. australis enzymes were partly mediated by peroxidase and the plant P-450 system. PCBs with a high degree of chlorination were highly resistant to transformation or degradation by plant enzymes. Both wetland plant species accumulated substantial quantities of the persistent organic chemicals but had different degradation capacities. The enzyme systems in P. australis were much more effective that those in rice in the degradation and transformation of the organic pollutants.
16547765	Glasshouse experiments were conducted to determine the accumulation, distribution and transformation of o,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDT and PCBs by common reed (Phragmites australis) and rice (Oryza sativa L.) under hydroponic conditions. The culture solution was spiked with the organic pollutants and samples were collected daily. Analysis of the plants at harvest showed that both species had removed DDT and PCBs from the solution. DDT appeared to have accumulated within P. australis by both passive adsorption and active absorption. Both o,p'-DDT and p,p'-DDT were transformed within P. australis. DDD was the major metabolite and the transformation was mediated by reductive dehalogenation. Plant long-distance transportation systems may be involved in the translocation of PCBs within P. australis and the affinity of the PCBs for lipids is one of the major factors affecting their uptake and translocation within the plants. Similar but less pronounced results were found in O. sativa and suggest that these wetland plants may be used for the plant-mediated remediation of persistent organic pollutants.
16547947	Rice cultivation is one of the most important agricultural activities on earth, with nearly 90% of it being produced in Asia. It belongs to the family of crops that includes wheat, maize and barley, and it supplies more than 50% of calories consumed by the world population. Its immense economic value and a relatively small genome size makes it a focal point for scientific investigations, so much so that four whole genome sequence drafts with varying qualities have been generated by both public and privately funded ventures. The availability of a complete and high-quality map-based sequence has provided the opportunity to study genome organization and evolution. Most importantly, the order and identity of 37,544 genes of rice have been unraveled. The sequence provides the required ingredients for functional genomics and molecular breeding programs aimed at unraveling intricate cellular processes and improving rice productivity.
16548068	As a highly reduced organism, pollen performs specialized functions to generate and carry sperm into the ovule by its polarily growing pollen tube. Yet the molecular genetic basis of these functions is poorly understood. Here, we identified 322 unique proteins, most of which were not reported previously to be in pollen, from mature pollen of Oryza sativa L. ssp japonica using a proteomic approach, 23% of them having more than one isoform. Functional classification reveals that an overrepresentation of the proteins was related to signal transduction (10%), wall remodeling and metabolism (11%), and protein synthesis, assembly and degradation (14%), as well as carbohydrate and energy metabolism (25%). Further, 11% of the identified proteins are functionally unknown and do not contain any conserved domain associated with known activities. These analyses also identified 5 novel proteins by de novo sequencing and revealed several important proteins, mainly involved in signal transduction (such as protein kinases, receptor kinase-interacting proteins, guanosine 5'-diphosphate dissociation inhibitors, C2 domain-containing proteins, cyclophilins), protein synthesis, assembly and degradation (such as prohibitin, mitochondrial processing peptidase, putative UFD1, AAA+ ATPase), and wall remodeling and metabolism (such as reversibly glycosylated polypeptides, cellulose synthase-like OsCsLF7). The study is the first close investigation, to our knowledge, of protein complement in mature pollen, and presents useful molecular information at the protein level to further understand the mechanisms underlying pollen germination and tube growth.
16549450	Two experiments were conducted to determine the viscosities of both soluble and insoluble dietary fibers. In Expt. 1, corn bran, defatted rice bran, guar gum, gum xanthan, oat bran, psyllium, soy hulls, stabilized rice bran, wheat bran, wood cellulose, and 2 methylcellulose controls (Ticacel 42, Ticacel 43) were hydrated in water overnight at 0.5, 1, 1.5, or 2% concentrations. In Expt. 2, guar gum, oat bran, psyllium, rice bran, wheat bran, and wood cellulose were subjected to a 2-stage in vitro gastric and small intestinal digestion simulation model. Viscosity was measured every 2 and 3 h during gastric and small intestinal simulation, respectively. Viscosities in both experiments were measured at multiple shear rates. Viscosities of all fiber solutions were concentration- and shear rate-dependent. Rice brans, soy hulls, and wood cellulose had the lowest viscosities, whereas guar gum, psyllium, and xanthan gum had the highest viscosities, regardless of concentration. During gastric simulation, viscosity was higher (P < 0.05) at 4 h than at 0 h for guar gum, psyllium, rice bran, and wheat bran. During small intestinal simulation, viscosities were higher (P < 0.05) between 3 and 9 h compared with 18 h for guar gum, oat bran, and rice bran. Guar gum, psyllium, and oat bran exhibited viscous characteristics throughout small intestinal simulation, indicating potential for these fibers to elicit blood glucose and lipid attenuation. Wheat and rice brans and wood cellulose did not exhibit viscous characteristics throughout small intestinal digestion; thus, they may be beneficial for laxation.
1655009	In order to determine the seasonal prevalence and population dynamics of Culex tritaeniorhynchus in relation to the epidemics of Japanese encephalitis, and ecology of these vector mosquito in Kyungpook Province, Korea, studies were conducted during the period of 7 years from 1984 to 1990. Cx. tritaeniorhynchus first collected in June between 4th and 28th, and trapped in large numbers during the period from mid-August to early September, showed a simple sharply pointed one-peaked curve. There was a gradual decrease from mid-September, with a very small number of them collected until early October in every year. The average number of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus rapidly decreased after 1985, and the number became particularly low in 1989. The highest population density, which was observed in August during the initial three years, was found to be delayed in the following years, accompanied by a decrease in the number of mosquitoes. In the trend of nocturnal activity of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus, with oncoming darkness they become very active, gradually decreasing in activity toward mid night, but slightly increasing toward dawn. The immature stages of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus were first found in rice fields contributing to peak adult densities in mid-July. The highest average densities of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus was 14,900 per m2 on mid-August 19th. The larval Cx. tritaeniorhynchus showed high resistance levels and resistance ratios against 5 organophosphorus compounds. In the adult horizontal life table characteristics of Kyungsan colonies of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus under insectary conditions, life expectancy was 28.3 days for males and 59.8 days for females. The net reproductive rate was 7.8 and generation time was 25.6 days.
16550223	Thiamin(e), also known as vitamin B1, is now known to play a fundamental role in energy metabolism. Its discovery followed from the original early research on the 'anti-beriberi factor' found in rice polishings. After its synthesis in 1936, it led to many years of research to find its action in treating beriberi, a lethal scourge known for thousands of years, particularly in cultures dependent on rice as a staple. This paper refers to the previously described symptomatology of beriberi, emphasizing that it differs from that in pure, experimentally induced thiamine deficiency in human subjects. Emphasis is placed on some of the more unusual manifestations of thiamine deficiency and its potential role in modern nutrition. Its biochemistry and pathophysiology are discussed and some of the less common conditions associated with thiamine deficiency are reviewed. An understanding of the role of thiamine in modern nutrition is crucial in the rapidly advancing knowledge applicable to Complementary Alternative Medicine. References are given that provide insight into the use of this vitamin in clinical conditions that are not usually associated with nutritional deficiency. The role of allithiamine and its synthetic derivatives is discussed. Thiamine plays a vital role in metabolism of glucose. Thus, emphasis is placed on the fact that ingestion of excessive simple carbohydrates automatically increases the need for this vitamin. This is referred to as high calorie malnutrition.
16550502	The methanol extract of stems of Catalpa ovata G Don exhibits potent in vivo antifungal activity against Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) Barr (rice blast) on rice plants, Botrytis cinerea Pers ex Fr (tomato grey mould) and Phytophthora infestans (Mont) de Bary (tomato late blight) on tomato plants, Puccinia recondita Rob ex Desm (wheat leaf rust) on wheat plants and Blumeria graminis (DC) Speer f. sp. hordei Marchal (barley powdery mildew) on barley plants. An antifungal substance was isolated and identified as dehydro-alpha-lapachone from mass and nuclear magnetic resonance spectral data. It completely inhibited the mycelial growth of B. cinerea, Colletotrichum acutatum Simmonds, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides Simmonds, M. grisea and Pythium ultimum Trow over a range of 0.4-33.3 mg litre(-1). It also controlled the development of rice blast, tomato late blight, wheat leaf rust, barley powdery mildew and red pepper anthracnose (Colletotrichum coccodes (Wallr) S Hughes). The chemical was particularly effective in suppressing red pepper anthracnose by 95% at a concentration of 125 mg litre(-1).
16551590	The inheritance of rice lines transformed by protease inhibitor II gene under control of different promoters was investigated by analysis of hygromycin resistance, PCR and Southern blot. For segregation patterns of foreign gene, 68.4% of the transgenic rice plants were conformed to a Mendelian ratio and in which the rate of transgenic plants with single copy was 63.6%. Quantitative analysis of Pin II protein expressed in transgenic rice plants showed that Pin II protein in fresh leaves was 160 microg/g for Act-Pin II-2x, 176 microg/g for Ubi-Pin II-2x, and 104 microg/g for PIN5'-Pin II-4x separately while in control rice plants was only 20 microg/g. The inhibitory activity against tryspin of Pin II gene driven by Actl and Ubi promoter reached 37.7% and 43.1%, much higher than that driven by PIN5' (29.2%). Bioassay for insect resistance to armyworm (Pseudaletia separata Walker) revealed that transgenic plants had increased their resistance to the pest but there was not significantly different from controls, and also there was no correlation between insect resistance to armyworm and quantity of Pin II protein as well as promoters in transgenic rice.
16551598	The proteins of HL type cytoplasmic male sterility rice anther of YTA (CMS) and YTB (maintenance line) were separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis with immobilized ph (3-10 non-linear) gradients as the first dimension and SDS-PAGE as the second. The silver-stained proteins spots were analyzed using Image Master 2D software, there were about 1800 detectable spots on each 2D-gel, and about 85 spots were differential expressed. With direct MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry analysis and protein database searching, 9 protein spots out of 16 were identified. Among those proteins, there were Putative nucleic acid binding protein, glucose-1-phosphate adenylyltransferase (ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, AGPase) (EC: 2.7.7.27) large chain, UDP-glucuronic acid decarboxylase, putative calcium-binding protein annexin, putative acetyl-CoA synthetase and putative lipoamide dehydrogenase etc. They were closely associated with metabolism, protein biosynthesis, transcription, signal transduction and so on, all of which are cell activities that are essential to pollen development. Some of the identified proteins, i.e. AGPase, putative lipoamide dehydrogenase and putative acetyl-CoA synthetase were deeply discussed on the relationship to CMS. AGPase catalyzes a very important step in the biosynthesis of alpha 1,4-glucans (glycogen or starch) in bacteria and plants: synthesis of the activated glucosyl donor, ADP-glucose, from glucose-1-phosphate and ATP. The lack of the AGPase in male sterile line might directly result in the reduction of starch, and the synthesis of starch was the most important processes during the development of pollen. In present research, the descent or reduction of putative lipoamide dehydrogenase and putative acetyl-CoA synthetase seemed involved in pollen sterility in rice. The degeneration and formation of various tissues during pollen development may impose high demands for energy and key biosynthetic intermediates. Under such conditions, the TCA cycle needs to operate fully, because the TCA cycle is an important source for many intermediates required for biosynthetic pathways, in addition to performing an oxidative, energy-producing role. Thus, it seemed reasonable to infer that the decrease of putative lipoamide dehydrogenase and putative acetyl-CoA synthetase in anther might prevent the conversion of pyruvate into acetyl-CoA, and as a result, the TCA cycle could no longer operate at a sufficient rate to meet all requirements in anther cells, leading to pollen sterility. This study gave new insights into the mechanism of CMS in rice and demonstrated the power of the proteomic approach in plant biology studies.
16551603	In this study, a new strategy to locate ESTs on maize linkage groups was described. In the strategy, the rice (Oryza sativa L.) genomic sequence database of was employed to locate maize EST on rice linkage groups, and then to locate on maize linkage group by comparative genetics mapping between rice and maize genome. The aligned ESTs information should available for further study on genomics and gene cloning. As an example, 139 ESTs of maize were assayed, and 96 maize ESTs (69%) were homologous with rice genomic sequence, 55% (77/139) ESTs were located on maize linkage groups based on the strategy, indicating that the locating approach of ESTs is feasible and available.
16551659	DRTF contains 2025 putative transcription factors (TFs) in Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica and 2384 in ssp. japonica, distributed in 63 families, identified by computational prediction and manual curation. It includes detailed annotations of each TF including sequence features, functional domains, Gene Ontology assignment, chromosomal localization, EST and microarray expression information, as well as multiple sequence alignment of the DNA-binding domains for each TF family. The database can be browsed and searched with a user-friendly web interface. DRTF is available at http://drtf.cbi.pku.edu.cn
16552526	Identifying prehistoric irrigated rice fields and characterizing the beginning of paddy soil development are important for a better understanding of human development and agricultural history. In 2003, paddy soils and irrigated rice fields buried at a depth of 100-130 cm were excavated at Chuo-dun-shan in the Yangtze River Delta, close to Suzhou, China. The fields of sizes between 1.4 and 16 m(2) were surrounded with ridges that were connected to ditches/ponds via outlets to control the water level within the fields. Many carbonized and partly carbonized rice grains with an age of 3,903 B.C. (measured (14)C age 5,129+/-45 a BP) were recovered. The surface layers of these buried paddy fields showed a high content of soil organic matter and a considerable high density of rice opals. The latter were identified to derive from Oryza spp. Solid-state (13)C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy revealed aromatic carbon (C) as the predominant organic C form in the fossil surface layer. This is expected, if the major source represents burnt rice and straw. In summary, our data are in agreement with new evidences indicating that in China, paddy soils and irrigated rice cultivation were initiated and developed more than 6,000 years ago.
16552572	Diet-derived flavonoids possess cancer chemopreventive properties in preclinical models. The knowledge of the pharmacology of most flavonoids is insufficient to warrant their advancement to clinical evaluation. Here the three flavonoids tricin from rice bran, apigenin from leafy vegetables, and quercetin from onions and apples, were compared in terms of their ability to modulate cyclooxygenase- (COX-) catalyzed prostaglandin E-2 (PGE-2) generation. Specifically their effects on the following parameters were studied: (1) COX enzyme activity, (2) COX-2 expression in human-derived colon cancer cells HCA-7, which express COX-2 constitutively, (3) phorbol ester-mediated COX-2 induction in human colon epithelial cells (HCEC), and (4) PGE-2 levels in cellular incubations. Tricin and quercetin inhibited enzyme activity in purified COX-1 and -2 preparations with IC50 values of near 1 (tricin) and 5 microM (quercetin). Apigenin at up to 25 microM did not affect COX enzyme activity. Flavonoids were incubated with cells for 6 or 24 h and COX-2 protein expression and PGE-2 levels were assessed by Western blot and competitive immunoassay, respectively. None of the agents affected constitutive COX-2 expression in HCA-7 cells. Apigenin, but not tricin or quercetin, down-regulated inducible COX-2 expression in HCEC cells on 6 h incubation. All three flavonoids reduced cellular levels of PGE-2 in the supernatant of HCA-7 cells at both time points and of HCEC cells at 6 h. The results demonstrate that these structurally similar flavonoids regulate COX-mediated PGE-2 production in different fashions. Their ability to attenuate prostanoid levels may contribute to their cancer chemopreventive efficacy.
16552590	Hexokinase (HXK) is a dual-function enzyme that both phosphorylates hexose to form hexose 6-phosphate and plays an important role in sugar sensing and signaling. To investigate the roles of hexokinases in rice growth and development, we analyzed rice sequence databases and isolated ten rice hexokinase cDNAs, OsHXK1 (Oryza sativa Hexokinase 1) through OsHXK10. With the exception of the single-exon gene OsHXK1, the OsHXKs all have a highly conserved genomic structure consisting of nine exons and eight introns. Gene expression profiling revealed that OsHXK2 through OsHXK9 are expressed ubiquitously in various organs, whereas OsHXK10 expression is pollen-specific. Sugars induced the expression of three OsHXKs, OsHXK2, OsHXK5, and OsHXK6, in excised leaves, while suppressing OsHXK7 expression in excised leaves and immature seeds. The hexokinase activity of the OsHXKs was confirmed by functional complementation of the hexokinase-deficient yeast strain YSH7.4-3C (hxk1, hxk2, glk1). OsHXK4 was able to complement this mutant only after the chloroplast-transit peptide was removed. The subcellular localization of OsHXK4 and OsHXK7, observed with green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion constructs, indicated that OsHXK4 is a plastid-stroma-targeted hexokinase while OsHXK7 localizes to the cytosol.
16552602	Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for drought tolerance (DT) can be readily identified in available databases and in this paper, these QTLs were summarized in the form of a consensus map. An in silico strategy was then deployed to mine for candidate genes associated with DT QTLs using rice dbEST and rice genome databases. DT QTLs on rice chromosomes 1, 2, 4, 8, and 9 were selected to test the method. The result showed candidate genes associated with DT could be readily identified.
16553214	Two cDNA libraries enriched for transcripts differentially expressed in plants of two rice lines with similar genetic backgrounds and same leaf blast resistance but different responses to neck blast using suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH). After differential screening and sequence analysis of the selected clones, 90 unique cDNA clones were found, of which 74 clones were with known functions according to the putative functions of their homologous genes in the database. They may be involved in pathogen response, signal transduction, transcription, etc. Expression differences of 17 out of the 26 selected cDNA clones in resistant and susceptible lines were confirmed by RT-PCR. Expression profilings of the 26 cDNA clones at the early stages after inoculation were also revealed by RT-PCR. This is the first report on the rice neck blast resistance at mRNA level and will facilitate the further study of genetic mechanism of neck blast resistance.
16553215	The brown planthopper (BPH) is one of the most serious insects pests of rice, and the host resistance has been recognized as one of the most economic and effective measures for BPH management. In this study, we conducted a molecular-based genetic analysis of Bph9 in Kaharamana, a Sri Lanka rice variety resistant to BPH insects of East and Southeast Asia. An F2 segregating population composed of 180 plants was constructed from the cross between Kaharamana and 02428, and each F2 plant was self-crossed to obtain F2:3 family. The bulked seedling test method was used to evaluate the resistance of F2:3 families, and the genotype of each F2 plant was inferred from the phenotype of corresponding F2:3 family. Linkage analysis indicated that the resistant gene Bph9 in Kaharamana was located between SSR markers RM463 and RM5341 on chromosome 12 with linkage distances of 6.8 cM and 9.7 cM, respectively. The time- and money-saving SSR markers would be helpful in the application of Bph9 in breeding program via marker-assisted selection.
16553216	An Agrobacterium-mediated transformation protocol using binary bacterial artificial chromosome (BIBAC) vector system in rice (Oryza sativa L.) was developed. Calli derived from mature embryos of japonica rice cv. H1493 were used as target tissues. Various aspects in transformation and regeneration processes including callus induction and culture, Agrobacterium concentration and duration of co-cultivation, bacterial elimination and transformant selection were examined in order to improve the transformation efficiency. An optimized transformation conditions was established including: using an Agrobacterium strain, LBA4404(HP4404), which carries a super-virulent helper plasmid pCH32, for the infection; a modified N6 medium system for callus induction and culture; pH 5.6 for media in pre-cultivation and co-cultivation; Agrobacterium concentration at OD600 = 1.0 for 3 days co-cultivation and 7 days for a resting period of the infected calli. Based on PCR and Southern blot analysis, it was demonstrated that insert DNA and marker genes carried by BIBAC2 were integrated into the rice genome.
16553217	The compactness of plant chromosome and the structures of plant cell wall and cytoplasm pose a great resistance to fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and consequently many new methods for improving spatial resolution are being exploited to overcome these problems. However, for plants with small chromosomes like rice and Brassica, there are still many difficulties. In this article a new and effective technique for preparation of extended DNA fibers (EDFs), using a series of treatments to prophase I chromosomes of Brassica oleracea PMCs, is presented. This technique allows longitudinal extension of the chromosomes 30-107 times longer than those of their metaphase counterparts. The length of the extended DNA fibers is between 89 microm and 273 microm, and the space resolution is 42.8-53.0 kb. Stretching ratios were assessed in a number of FISH experiments with super-stretched chromosomes from meiotic prophase I nuclei of B. olerecea. Through FISH to EDFs of pachytene chromosomes hybridized in situ with SRK (S-locus receptor kinase) and SPII (S-locus protein II) probes, for the first time we localized the accurate positions of S-locus and quantitatively analyzed the features of S genes in B. oleracea genome to show all S genes were single-copied. In addition, the length between two linked genes was measured to be about one micron. As a result, the highest space resolution which was about 4 kb was obtained.
16553264	Emission of nitrogen in the form of ammonia from poultry rearing facilities has been an important topic for the poultry industry because of concerns regarding the effects of ammonia on the environment. Sound scientific data is needed to accurately estimate air emissions from poultry operations. Many factors, such as season of the year, ambient temperature and humidity, bird health, and management practices can influence ammonia volatilization from broiler rearing facilities. Precise results are often difficult to attain from commercial facilities, particularly over long periods of time. Therefore, an experiment was conducted to determine nitrogen loss from broilers in a research facility under conditions simulating commercial production for 18 consecutive flocks. Broilers were reared to 40 to 42 d of age and fed diets obtained from a commercial broiler integrator. New rice hulls were used for litter for the first flock, and the same litter was recycled for all subsequent flocks with caked litter removed between flocks. All birds, feeds, and litter materials entering and leaving the facility were quantified, sampled, and analyzed for total nitrogen content. Nitrogen loss was calculated by the mass balance method in which loss was equal to the difference between the nitrogen inputs and the nitrogen outputs. Nitrogen partitioning as a percentage of inputs averaged 15.29, 6.84, 55.52, 1.27, and 21.08% for litter, caked litter, broiler carcasses, mortalities, and nitrogen loss, respectively, over all eighteen flocks. During the production of 18 flocks of broilers on the same recycled litter, the average nitrogen emission rate was calculated to range from 4.13 to 19.74 g of N/ kg of marketed broiler (grams of nitrogen per kilogram) and averaged 11.07 g of N/kg. Nitrogen loss was significantly (P < 0.05) greater for flocks reared in summer vs. winter. Results of this experiment have demonstrated that the rate of nitrogen volatilization from broiler grow-out facilities varies significantly on a flock-to-flock basis.
16553265	Top-dressing is a method of broiler litter management in which a thin layer of new, clean litter material is spread over the top of previously used litter prior to placement of a new flock. This fresh layer of bedding material increases the absorptive capacity of the litter and decreases litter caking. Although this practice has been widely used in the poultry industry for many years, no research has been conducted to quantify the effects the practice has on broiler performance, litter production rates, and nutrient content, or the ability of broiler litter to retain manure N and prevent volatilization. An experiment was conducted to quantify these parameters under simulated commercial conditions in a research facility. Nine consecutive flocks of broilers were reared on recycled broiler litter that had previously been used for 9 flocks. Control pens received no litter treatment whereas top-dressed pens received a thin layer of new rice hulls (1 to 2 cm) before the placement of each flock. Nitrogen loss was calculated using the mass balance method. Average broiler performance was not different between the top-dressed and control pens. Top-dressing of litter significantly (P < 0.05) reduced caked litter production compared with control pens in 6 of 9 flocks. However, average total litter production over all 9 flocks was not different between the 2 litter management strategies. In all flocks, litter N content was significantly reduced in top-dressed pens compared with control pens. As a result, litter C:N ratios were significantly higher for pens with top-dressed litter. Differences in N loss between the treatments were not consistent. Average N loss for all flocks was 10.61 and 11.92 g of N/kg of marketed broiler for control and top-dressed pens, respectively, or 20.1 and 22.5% of N inputs, respectively. Based on this experiment, top-dressing of recycled broiler litter would not be recommended as a strategy to reduce the volatilization of N from broiler rearing facilities and, in fact, may actually increase N loss.
16553861	Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) play key roles in biological processes including differentiation, growth, proliferation, survival, and stress responses. We isolated and characterized the SRM1 gene, which encodes an MAPK related to yeast High-osmolarity glycerol 1 (Hog1), from the rice leaf pathogen Bipolaris oryzae. The deduced amino sequence of the SRM1 gene showed significant homology with Hog1-type MAPK homologues from other phytopathogenic fungi and contained a TGY motif for phosphorylation. The B. oryzae mutants with disruption of the SRM1 gene (Deltasrm1) showed growth inhibition under hyperosmotic, hydrogen peroxide, and UV exposure conditions. The Deltasrm1 mutants showed moderate resistance to dicarboximide and phenylpyrrole fungicides. The Deltasrm1 mutations caused a defect in the expression of the gene that encodes antioxidant enzyme catalase (CAT2) under UV and hyperosmotic conditions. Furthermore, the transcriptional patterns of the three melanin biosynthesis genes (PKS1, THR1, and SCD1) and of a gene of unknown function, uvi-1, which are specifically induced by near-ultraviolet (NUV) radiation, gradually decreased in comparison with the wild-type expression patterns. These results suggest that Srm1 contributes to responses to not only osmostress but also to hydrogen peroxide and UV stress, whereas Srm1 does not appear to regulate directly the expression of genes related to NUV-induced photomorphogenesis.
16553892	Forty-one rice cDNAs encoding protein kinases were fused to the tandem affinity purification (TAP) tag and expressed in transgenic rice plants. The TAP-tagged kinases and interacting proteins were purified from the T1 progeny of the transgenic rice plants and identified by mass spectrometry. Ninety-five percent of the TAP-tagged kinases were recovered. Fifty-six percent of the TAP-tagged kinases were found to interact with other rice proteins. A number of these interactions were consistent with known protein complexes found in other species, validating the TAP-tag method in rice plants. Phosphorylation sites were identified on four of the kinases that interacted with either 14-3-3 proteins or cyclins.
16554820	To cause diseases in plants, pathogenic microorganisms have evolved mechanisms to deliver proteins directly into plant cells, where they suppress plant defences and facilitate tissue invasion. How plant pathogenic fungi, which cause many of the world's most serious plant diseases, deliver proteins during plant infection is currently unknown. Here we report the characterization of a P-type ATPase-encoding gene, MgAPT2, in the economically important rice blast pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, which is required for exocytosis during plant infection. Targeted gene replacement showed that MgAPT2 is required for both foliar and root infection by the fungus, and for the rapid induction of host defence responses in an incompatible reaction. DeltaMgapt2 mutants are impaired in the secretion of a range of extracellular enzymes and accumulate abnormal Golgi-like cisternae. However, the loss of MgAPT2 does not significantly affect hyphal growth or sporulation, indicating that the establishment of rice blast disease involves the use of MgApt2-dependent exocytotic processes that operate during plant infection.
16554872	A human Japanese encephalitis (JE) case is considered to have elevated temperature (over 380 C) along with altered consciousness or unconsciousness and is generally confirmed serologically by finding of specific anti-JE IgM in the cerebro spinal fluid. No specific treatment for JE is available. Only supportive treatment like meticulous nursing care, introduction of Ryle's tube if the patient is unconscious, dextrose solution if dehydration is present, manitol injection in case of raised cranial temperature and diazepam in case of convulsion. Intra venous fluids, indwelling catheter in conscious patient and corticosteroids unless indicated should be avoided. Pigs, wading birds and ducks have been incriminated as important vertebrate amplifying hosts for JE virus due to viremia in them. Man along with bovines, ovines and caprines is involved in transmission cycle as accidental hosts and plays no role in perpetuating the virus due to the lack of viremia in them. The species Cx tritaeniorhyncus is suspected to be the principal vector of JE in Nepal as the species is abundantly found in the rice-field ecosystem of the endemic areas during the transmission season and JE virus isolates have been obtained from a pool of Cx tritaeniorhyncus females. Mosquito vector become infective 14 days after acquiring the JR virus from the viremic host. The disease was first recorded in Nepal in 1978 as an epidemic in Rupandehi district of the Western Development Region (WDR) and Morang of the Eastern Region (EDR). At present the disease is endemic in 24 districts. Although JE as found endemic mainly in tropical climate areas, existence and proliferation of encephalitis causing viruses in temperate and cold climates of hills and valleys are possible. Total of 26,667 cases and 5,381 deaths have been reported with average case fatality rate of 20.2% in an aggregate since 1978. More than 50% of morbidity and 60% mortality occur in the age group below 15 years. Upsurge of cases take place after the rainy season (monsoon). Cases start to appear in the month of April - May and reach its peak during late August to early September and start to decline from October. There are four designated referral laboratories, namely National Public Health Laboratory (Teku), Vector Borne Diseases Research and Training Center (Hetauda), B.P. Koirala Institute of Medical Sciences (Dharan) and JE Laboratory (Nepalgunj), for confirmatory diagnosis of JE. For prevention of JE infection; chemical and biological control of vectors including environmental management at breeding sites are necessary. Segregate pigs from humans habitation. Wear long sleeved clothes and trousers and use repellent and bed net to avoid exposure to mosquitos. For the prevention of the disease in humans, safe and efficacious vaccines are available. Therefore immunize population at risk against JE. Immunize pigs at the surroundings against JE. 225,000 doses of live attenuated SA-14-14.2 JE vaccine were received in donation from Boran Pharmaceuticals, South Korea for the first time in Nepal. Altogether 224,000 children aged between 1 to 15 years were vaccinated in Banke, Bardiya and Kailali districts during 1999. From China also, 2,000,000 doses of inactivated vaccine were received in 2000 and a total of 481,421 children aged between 6m to 10 yrs were protected from JE during 2001/2002. Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Livestock Services has vaccinated around 200,000 pigs against JE in terai zone during February 2001.
1655582
1655598	The aim of this study is to examine the inhibitory effect of rice bran fiber (RBF) and cholestyramine for intestinal absorption of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Sixteen rats were orally given at the dose of 100 mg of PCBs per kg of the animal, and were divided into four groups (A-D): Rats in each group were housed with the normal diet for the first 7 days, and subsequently, were given with the same diet as control for group A, with the diet containing 10% RBF for group B, with the diet containing 5% cholestyramine for group C and with the combined diet containing 10% RBF and 5% cholestyramine for group D for the next 10 days. All rats were sacrificed on the 17th day after PCBs administration, and PCBs in contents of the digestive tracts were determined: small and large intestine resected was divided into two parts each of the same length, and the contents were chemically analyzed to determine PCBs. PCBs concentration in rats of group A decreased in order of upper portions (1.0 microgram/g) and then lower (0.6 microgram/g) of small intestine, and upper (0.5 microgram/g) and then lower (0.4 microgram/g) of large intestine. Decreasing the PCBs concentration might be due to re-absorption in the intestine. In the case of groups B-D, PCBs concentration was in order of upper and then lower of small intestine, and large intestine. It was indicated that PCBs re-absorption in intestine is inhibited by the intake of RBF, cholestyramine, and RBF and cholestyramine.
1655599	Among the eight kinds of dietary fiber tested, rice bran fiber (RBF) mostly bound Kanechlor 600 (PCB) in vitro. The PCB bound to dietary fiber was in proportion to the lignin content in dietary fiber. We investigated whether RBF, lignin, cholestyramine and their combination stimulate the fecal excretion of PCB in rats. In the group fed a diet containing 10% (w/w) RBF, fecal excretion of PCB was stimulated. In the group fed a diet containing 10% (w/w) RBF and 5% (w/w) cholestyramine, more PCB was excreted in the feces. However, the group fed a diet containing 10% (w/w) RBF and 5% (w/w) lignin excreted the same amount of PCB as the group fed a diet containing 10% (w/w) RBF. The total PCB excreted into the feces for 21 days in the groups fed 10% (w/w) RBF, 10% (w/w) RBF and 5% (w/w) lignin, 5% (w/w) cholestyramine and 10% (w/w) RBF and 5% (w/w) cholestyramine diet was 3.4, 3.8, 2.3 and 5.7 times, respectively, that of the control. The stool transit time of rats fed 10% (w/w) RBF and 5% (w/w) cholestyramine diet was one hour faster than that of rats fed a 5% (w/w) cholestyramine diet. Therefore, we concluded that RBF has the greatest effect when administered in combination with cholestyramine on the fecal excretion of PCB.
1655600	To investigate clinical effects of rice bran fiber and cholestyramine therapy in Yusho, peripheral blood cells and biochemical parameters were studied before and after therapy in eleven healthy volunteers and four patients with Yusho who were treated with rice bran fiber 30 g/day and cholestyramine 12 g/day for 7 days. In healthy volunteers, a significant elevation in total leukocyte counts as well as lymphocyte counts was observed after therapy (leukocyte p less than 0.005, and lymphocyte, p less than 0.01). In lymphocyte subpopulations, significant elevations were found in CD3- and B1-positive cells (CD3, p less than 0.05 and B1, p less than 0.001). However, no significant effect of the treatment was observed in reticulocyte counts or platelet counts. In biochemical parameters, total cholesterol levels decreased significantly, from 208 +/- 36 mg/dl (mean +/- SD) to 173 +/- 30 mg/dl (p less than 0.001), after therapy. HDL-cholesterol levels were also reduced significantly after therapy (from 50 +/- 12 to 46 +/- 13/mg/dl; p less than 0.05). Serum triglyceride levels increased significantly, from 155 +/- 96 to 195 +/- 133 mg/dl (p less than 0.05), after therapy. A significant increase was observed in serum levels of alanine aminotransferase, while significant depressions were found in serum levels of total bilirubin, total protein, gamma-globulin, creatinine, and calcium. In four Yusho patients who received rice bran fiber and cholestyramine therapy twice with more than one month interval, the clinical effects of therapy in addition to biochemical effects were studied. An only significant effect was observed in serum levels of total cholesterol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
16556934	In plant pararetroviruses, pregenomic RNA serves both as a template for replication through reverse transcription and a polysictronic mRNA. This RNA has a complex leader sequence preceding the first large ORF. The leader contains multiple short ORFs and strong secondary structure, both inhibiting ribosome scanning. Translation on this RNA is initiated by shunting, in which scanning ribosomes bypass a large portion of the leader with the inhibitory secondary structure and short ORFs. In Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV), the ribosome shunting mechanism involves translation of the 5'-proximal short ORF terminating in front of the secondary structure that appears to force ribosomes to take off and resume scanning at a landing site downstream of the structure. Using two plant protoplast systems and shunt-competent wheat-germ extracts, we demonstrate that in Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) shunting also depends on the first short ORF followed by strong secondary structure. Swapping of the conserved shunt elements between CaMV and RTBV revealed the importance of nucleotide composition of the landing sequence for efficient shunting. The results suggest that the mechanism of ribosome shunting is evolutionary conserved in plant pararetroviruses.
16556979	The most chilling-sensitive stage of rice has been found to be at the onset of microspore release. The microsporocytes produce a wall of callose between the primary cell wall and the plasma membrane, and it has been shown that precise regulation of callose synthesis and degradation in anther is essential for fertile pollen formation. In this study, genes for 10 callose synthases in the rice genome were fully annotated and phylogenetically analyzed. Expression analysis of these genes showed that OsGSL5, an ortholog of microsporogenesis-related AtGSL2, was specifically expressed in anthers, and was notably downregulated by cooling treatment. Gene expression profiles of Rho-type small GTP-binding proteins in rice anther were also analyzed. The mechanisms of callose synthesis in rice pollen formation and its relationships with cool tolerance are discussed.
16557337	Ubiquitin ligases play an important regulatory role in the control of protein degradation processes via the ubiquitin/26S proteasome pathway in eukaryotes. These enzymes participate in substrate specification and mediate the transfer of ubiquitin to target proteins. A large number of ubiquitin ligases are predicted in the eukaryotes whose genomes have been sequenced; in Arabidopsis thaliana more than 1300 genes are thought to encode ubiquitin ligases. At least three classes of ubiquitin ligases are present in Arabidopsis, one of which comprises about 470 RING zinc-finger domain proteins. Within this class we have characterized the ATL family that encodes a RING-H2 finger. We identified 80 members of this family in A. thaliana and 121 in Oryza sativa. About 60% of the rice ATLs are clustered with A. thaliana ATLs, and in many cases the gene products showed sequence similarities beyond the ATL's conserved features, suggesting that they could be orthologous genes. Ninety percent of the ATLs are intronless genes, suggesting that the structure of the basic ATL protein may have evolved as a functional module. We carried out a survey of T-DNA insertions in 30% of the Arabidopsis ATL genes and screened for possible phenotypes. Four of these genes are likely to be essential for viability, since homozygous plants for the T-DNA insertion were not recovered. One of them, ATL8, is mainly expressed in young siliques, suggesting a role during embryogenesis. We also recovered a line carrying a T-DNA insertion in ATL43 that showed an ABA-insensitive phenotype, suggesting a role of this gene in the ABA response. The organization of ATLs in Arabidopsis and rice in this study will be a valuable comprehensive guide for this multigene family.
16557374	The mold Aspergillus giganteus produces a basic, low molecular weight protein showing antifungal properties against economically important plant pathogens, the AFP (Antifungal Protein). In this study, we investigated the mechanisms by which AFP exerts its antifungal activity against Magnaporthe grisea. M. grisea is the causal agent of rice blast, one of the most devastating diseases of cultivated rice worldwide. AFP was purified from the extracellular medium of A. giganteus cultures. The AFP protein was found to induce membrane permeabilization in M. grisea cells. Electron microscopy studies revealed severe cellular degradation and damage of plasma membranes in AFP-treated fungal cells. AFP however failed to induce membrane permeabilization on rice or human HeLa cells. Furthermore, AFP enters the fungal cell and targets to the nucleus, as revealed by co-localization experiments of Alexa-labeled AFP with the SYTOX Green dye. Finally, AFP binds to nucleic acids, including M. grisea DNA. Our results suggest that the combination of fungal cell permeabilization, cell-penetrating ability and nucleic acid-binding activity of AFP determines its potent antifungal activity against M. grisea. These results are discussed in relation to the potential of the AFP protein to enhance crop protection against fungal diseases.
16557453	Airway inflammation and remodeling in chronic asthma are characterized by airway eosinophilia, hyperplasia of smooth muscle and goblet cells, and subepithelial fibrosis. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of DA-9201, an ethanolic extract of black rice (Oryza sativa L.), on airway inflammation and remodeling in a murine model of chronic asthma. BALB/c mice sensitized to ovalbumin (OVA) were chronically challenged with aerosolized OVA for 6 weeks. DA-9201 (30, 100, or 300 mg/kg) or dexamethasone (3 mg/kg) was orally administered during the last 4 and 2 weeks, respectively. Airway inflammation, lung pathology by histomorphometry and immunohistochemistry, IgE level and Th2 cytokines were evaluated. The OVA-treated mice showed extensive eosinophilia, chronic inflammatory responses and characteristics of airway remodeling including subepithelial fibrosis, smooth muscle hypertrophy, and goblet cell hyperplasia. As compared to the OVA-treated control group, treatment with DA-9201 resulted in significant reductions in the accumulation of eosinophils in peribronchial areas, chronic pulmonary inflammation and progression of airway remodeling. Furthermore, DA-9201 significantly reduced total serum and BALF IgE levels and Th2 cytokines. These results indicate that DA-9201 may play an important role in attenuating the progressing of airway inflammation and remodeling and suggest the potential benefits of DA-9201 in prevention or treatment of asthma.
16559905
16562744	Malaria was not notified in the republic in 1960 to 1982, with exception of 1963 where one case of imported malaria was identified. Twenty-four cases of locally transmitted malaria were detected, 11 of them being registered in the Batken district, Osh Region, contiguous with Tadjikistan and Uzbekistan. In 1981 to 2000, a total of 101 cases of malaria were notified, in 2001 there was an increase in cases of malaria to 136, while in 2002, a total of 2744 cases of malaria were registered mainly in the Fergana valley. Malaria was imported from Tadjikistan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, and Afghanistan. The infectious agent of malaria was P. vivax in 98% of cases and P. falciparum in 2%. The high malarial potential areas are the Osh, Zhalalabat, and Batken Regions and town of Osh. In 2002, the investigators identified patients with malaria, made its chloroquine eliminating treatment, seasonal chemoprevention of some 5000 dwellers of the Leilek District of the Batken Region contiguous with Tadjikistan, and larvicidal treatments of water reservoirs and rice checks with dimilin. Almost 1,988,000 m2 of premises were treated with Solfac. Mosquito fishes were placed into more water reservoirs in 2003. In 2003 there was a tendency for a decrease in the incidence of malaria, as compared with 2002, which may be ascribed to the small size of vectors, which is due to the cold spring and cool June and July. In 2003, there were treatments of premises, mosquito fish enrichment of water reservoirs, interseasonal chemoprophylaxis of patients who experienced malaria in 2002; impregnated bed curtains were available to protect the dwellers of foci from mosquito bites.
16565882	Salt stress is one of the most serious factors limiting the productivity of agricultural crops. Increasing evidence has demonstrated that vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporters play a crucial role in plant salt tolerance. In the present study, we expressed the Suaeda salsa vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter SsNHX1 in transgenic rice to investigate whether this can increase the salt tolerance of rice, and to study how overexpression of this gene affected other salt-tolerant mechanisms. It was found that transgenic rice plants showed markedly enhanced tolerance to salt stress and to water deprivation compared with non-transgenic controls upon salt stress imposition under outdoor conditions. Measurements of ion levels indicated that K+, Ca2+ and Mg2+ contents were all higher in transgenic plants than in non-transformed controls. Furthermore, shoot V-ATPase hydrolytic activity was dramatically increased in transgenics compared to that of non-transformed controls under salt stress conditions. Physiological analysis also showed that the photosynthetic activity of the transformed plants was higher whereas the same plants had reduced reactive oxygen species generation. In addition, the soluble sugar content increased in the transgenics compared with that in non-transgenics. These results imply that up-regulation of a vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter gene in transgenic rice might cause pleiotropic up-regulation of other salt-resistance-related mechanisms to improve salt tolerance.
16568313	Monacolin K, an inhibitor for cholesterol synthesis, is the secondary metabolite of Monascus species. The formation of the secondary metabolites of the Monascus species is affected by cultivation environment and method. This research uses sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas), potato (Solanum tuberosum), casava (Manihot esculenta), and dioscorea (Dioscorea batatas) as the substrates and discusses the best substrate to produce monacolin K. The results show that Monascus purpureus NTU 301, with dioscorea as the substrate, can produce monacolin K at 2,584 mg kg(-1), which is 5.37 times to that resulted when rice is used as the substrate. In addition, more amount of yellow pigment can be found in Monascus-fermented dioscorea than in Monascus-fermented rice. The certain composition of yellow pigment is identified as monascin, which has been shown as an antiinflammation agent exhibiting potent inhibitory effects on 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced inflammation in mice in previous studies. Therefore, dioscorea is concluded to be the best substrate for Monascus species to produce the cholesterol-lowering agent-monacolin K and antiinflammation agent-monascin.
16569039	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) hull extracts were used in a bioassay to evaluate the allelopathic potential of rice on the germination and growth of barnyard grass (Echinochloa crus-galli P. Beauv. var. oryzicola Ohwi), to quantify momilactone A and B levels in rice hull germplasm and to assess the inhibitory bioactivity of momilactone A and B as a potential natural source of herbicide for weed control in paddy fields. Four varieties of weeds including E. crus-galli P. Beauv. var. oryzicola Ohwi, Monochoria vaginalis var. plantaginea, Scirpus juncoides, and Eleocharis kuroguwai were tested in the paddy field. Of 99 rice varieties, the top five including Noindari exhibited inhibition effects greater than 50% in average inhibition of dry weight (AIDW). Noindari among them exerted the strongest effect (55.6%). The next five in the ranking exhibited inhibition effects of greater than 40%. Also, 46 varieties had inhibition effects between 20 and 40%, and 29 varieties had inhibition effects greater than 10%. Fourteen varieties had very low inhibitory effects (less than 10%), the lowest of which was Heunbe (4.7%). These varieties showed a mean inhibition of 19.8% for germination rate (GR), 9.9% for germination percentage (GP), 16.6% for leaf dry weight (LDW), 38.9% for straw dry weight (SDW), and 26.8% for root dry weight (RDW). Rice varieties were classified into six categories based on their total momilactones (TMs) (momilactone A + momilactone B). The highest level of momilactone A was found in the Baekna rice variety (34.7 microg g(-1)), and Baekgwangok contained the highest level of momilactone B (37.8 microg g(-1)). In allelopathic potential with genetic properties and morphological characteristics, the total inhibition rate (TIR) was 18.3% for Korean rice varieties, 19.0% for middle maturing varieties, 17.8% for colorless hull varieties, 18.3% for awn varieties, and 19.0% for colorless awn varieties. In addition, Korean varieties showed higher TMs (4.5 microg g(-1)) as compared with varieties that were late maturing (4.4 microg g(-1)), had colorless hulls (4.1 microg g(-1)), awns (4.7 microg g(-1)), and colorless awns (4.8 microg g(-1)). Momilactone A levels were generally higher than momilactone B levels. Total inhibition rates on barnyard grass correlated with average inhibitions of germination (AIG) (r2 = 0.62***), AIDW (r2 = 0.92***), and were affected by the inhibition rate of GP (r2 = 0.57***). Regions of origin for rice varieties correlated with the AIG (r2 = -0.23***), and maturing time showed a positive correlation with SDW (r2 = 0.15**) and RDW (r2 = 0.19**). Levels of momilactones were also correlated with the region of origin (r2 = -0.32***), maturing time (r2 = 0.13***), and awns (momilactone A, r2 = 0.23***; momilactone B, r2 = 0.14**), suggesting that rice varieties with awns, Korean varieties, and varieties with later maturing times contain higher levels of momilactone. Also, the investigation of the momilactone A and B bioactivity (0, 250, 500, 1000, 2000, and 4000 g a.i./ha) for weed control in paddy fields indicated that momilactones A and B exhibited no toxicity (0 in all concentrations) against rice plants, and the inhibitory bioactivity on weeds with momilactone A was higher than that of momilactone B. When compared with no momilactone control, the highest inhibitory effect (50%) on E. crus-galli P. Beauv. var. oryzicola Ohwi was shown on the 14th day after the application of momiactone A. The inhibitory effect increased with the concentration of the compound from 250 to 4000 g a.i./ha. Furthermore, momilactone A showed greater suppression than momliactone B toward toward E. crus-galli P. Beauv. var. oryzicola Ohwi, M. vaginalis var. plantaginea, S. juncoides, and E. kuroguwai. In broad weed species, momilactone A showed the highest inhibitory effect (90% in 4000 g a.i./ha) on S. juncoides, 14 days after the application as compared with no momilactone control. Further studies on allelopathic effects and momilactones from the germplasm of rice varieties using genetic properties and morphological characteristics may facilitate the development of rice varieties with higher allelopathic potential. Momilactones A and B present in rice hulls may serve as a potential natural herbicide source for weed control in paddy fields reducing the dependence on synthetic herbicides.
16569055	The recent introduction of imidazolinone-tolerant rice varieties allow imazethapyr to be used in commercial rice. Little is known about imazethapyr photodegradation in the rice field. Laboratory studies were conducted to determine the direct and indirect photolysis rates for imazethapyr and to evaluate the photolysis of imazethapyr in three rice paddy waters. The reaction quantum yield (phi I) for imazethapyr was determined to be 0.023 +/- 0.002, while the hydroxyl radical rate constant (K(I)*OH) was 2.8 x 10(13) M(-1) h(-1). These results show that imazethapyr is susceptible to both direct and indirect photolysis reactions in water. The results also show that imazethapyr photolysis in paddy water will be affected by turbidity because of its impact on the availability of sunlight to drive direct and indirect photolysis reactions.
16569065	Sixteen red rice accessions from the southern United States were studied for their physical, milling, pasting, and thermal properties, chemical composition, and starch fine structure relative to cultivated medium- and long-grain rice varieties. All red rice samples were medium-grain, but their physicochemical properties were different from those of Bengal, a cultivated medium-grain rice. Their apparent amylose and crude protein contents were generally higher, and their amylopectin structure consisted of a higher percentage of the shorter branch chains (DP6-24) and a lower percentage of the longer branch chains (DP25-65). Red rice starch pasting and thermal properties were similar to those of Wells, a long-grain rice cultivar. The red rice samples can be classified into two major clusters according to their kernel properties by hierarchical cluster analysis: one cluster with more resemblance to Wells and another cluster with more resemblance to Bengal. Starch structure and kernel physicochemical properties may offer an alternative way of classifying red rice in addition to phenotypic and genetic indices.
16570236	The glycaemic index (GI) is a measure of the food power to raise plasma glucose (PG) concentration after a meal. For its determination, classical methods register the development of glucose concentration in capillary plasma or whole blood. The aim of this prospective open-label trial was to compare the GI of selected foods obtained by means of the Continuous Glucose Monitoring System (CGMS) (Minimed Medtronic, Northridge, USA) which has not been applied for this purpose until now, with the respective GI determined by a conventional method using the Glucometer Advance System (GAS) (Hypoguard, Woodbridge, United Kingdom), and to assess the advantages of each approach. Portions of tested foods containing 50 g of carbohydrates were eaten for breakfast and for dinner after 10 and 4 h fast, respectively, by 20 healthy volunteers. Using GAS, PG-curves were constructed from 9 PG values at time 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90, 105 and 120 min after the meal, and, using CGMS, from 25 values of interstitial fluid glucose concentration (ISFG) stored within 120 min in 5-minute intervals in CGMS memory. The GI was calculated (for GAS and CGMS separately) by dividing the incremental area under the curve for the tested food by the average area of 3 tests performed with the standard. Having excluded tests with missing glucose values, there remained 285 GAS- and 290 CGMS tests for further analysis. In each volunteer, each food was tested 3 times within one week so that 1 to 3 GI's were obtained and averaged. The GI for each tested food was calculated as the mean from the respective average GI's of 20 volunteers. The GI-variability was assessed according to the respective SD. The preference of GAS vs. CGMS in the persons tested was explored by means of a questionnaire. MS Excel and the statistical program SPSS v. 10.1 were used to analyze the data. The GI values (mean +/- SD) measured by GAS/CGMS were for dark chocolate 43.6 +/- 22.13 %/44.0 +/- 21.71 % (p > 0.01); for apple baby food 46.1 +/- 21.38 %/53.8 +/- 37.69 % (p > 0.01); for puffed rice squares 76.5 +/- 20.24 %/76.9 +/- 27.62 % (p > 0.01); for yogurt 43.2 +/- 20.17 %/37.7 +/- 21.55 % (p > 0.01). The GI's of dark chocolate, apple baby food and yogurt, determined by either method, were significantly lower than the GI of puffed rice squares (p < 0.01). CGMS was preferred by 12 of 20 volunteers (60 %). No significant difference could be seen between the GI's determined by conventional method (GAS) and by CGMS (p > 0.01). The method with CGMS is reliable and comfortable for both tested persons and investigators. Hence, it appears to become a sophisticated approach to determine the GI.
16570654	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae and the closely related X. oryzae pv. oryzicola cause bacterial blight and bacterial leaf streak of rice, respectively. Although many rice resistance (R) genes and some corresponding avirulence (avr) genes have been characterized for bacterial blight, no endogenous avr/R gene interactions have been identified for leaf streak. Genes avrXa7 and avrXa10 from X. oryzae pv. oryzae failed to elicit the plant defense-associated hypersensitive reaction (HR) and failed to prevent development of leaf streak in rice cultivars with the corresponding R genes after introduction into X. oryzae pv. oryzicola despite the ability of this pathovar to deliver an AvrXa10:Cya fusion protein into rice cells. Furthermore, coinoculation of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola inhibited the HR of rice cultivar IRBB10 to X. oryzae pv. oryzae carrying avrXa10. Inhibition was quantitative and dependent on the type III secretion system of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola. The results suggest that one or more X. oryzae pv. oryzicola type III effectors interfere with avr/R gene-mediated recognition or signaling and subsequent defense response in the host. Inhibition of R gene-mediated defense by X. oryzae pv. oryzicola may explain, in part, the apparent lack of major gene resistance to leaf streak.
16571162	The purpose of this study was to investigate the association between dietary patterns and sexual maturation among Korean children. A cross-sectional study was conducted in 422 boys and 365 girls aged 9-12 years living in Seoul, Korea. Three-day food records were obtained, and pubertal stages were determined with a questionnaire using Tanner stages. Body fat was measured by bioelectrical impedance analysis, and bone mass content at the right calcaneus was measured by portable dual-emission X-ray absorptiometry. Exploratory factor analysis with a Varimax rotation was applied to identify dietary patterns using twenty-four food groups. Four distinct dietary patterns--"rice and Kimchi", "shellfish and processed meat", "pizza and drinks" and "milk and cereal"--were obtained. Twenty-six per cent (24 % stage 2, 2 % stage 3) of boys had genital development, and 79 % (63 % stage 2, 16 % stage 3) of girls showed breast development. In boys, genital development was weakly positively associated with "shellfish and processed meat" dietary factor scores (odds ratio 1.65, CI 0.95, 2.89, P for trend 0.07) after adjusting for confounders. In girls, breast development was significantly positively associated with the factor score of "shellfish and processed meat" (odds ratio 1.88, CI 1.08, 3.26, P for trend 0.05). These results suggest that dietary patterns were related to body composition and sexual maturation among the Korean children. Further investigations are needed to identify components of the foods consumed in high amounts in these patterns and how they are related to sexual maturation.
16572174	Silicon is beneficial to plant growth and helps plants to overcome abiotic and biotic stresses by preventing lodging (falling over) and increasing resistance to pests and diseases, as well as other stresses. Silicon is essential for high and sustainable production of rice, but the molecular mechanism responsible for the uptake of silicon is unknown. Here we describe the Low silicon rice 1 (Lsi1) gene, which controls silicon accumulation in rice, a typical silicon-accumulating plant. This gene belongs to the aquaporin family and is constitutively expressed in the roots. Lsi1 is localized on the plasma membrane of the distal side of both exodermis and endodermis cells, where casparian strips are located. Suppression of Lsi1 expression resulted in reduced silicon uptake. Furthermore, expression of Lsi1 in Xenopus oocytes showed transport activity for silicon only. The identification of a silicon transporter provides both an insight into the silicon uptake system in plants, and a new strategy for producing crops with high resistance to multiple stresses by genetic modification of the root's silicon uptake capacity.
16573384	Dietary polyphenols, including anthocyanins, are suggested to be involved in the protective effects of fruits and vegetables against cancer. However, anticancer effects of peonidin 3-glucoside have not been clearly demonstrated, with only limited studies being available concerning the inhibitory effect of cyanidin 3-glucoside for tumor cell growth. Therefore, in this study, we have isolated and identified the two bioactive compounds, peonidin 3-glucoside and cyanidin 3-glucoside, from Oryza sativa L. indica, to treat various cancer cells. The results showed that, among analyzed cell lines, HS578T was the most sensitive to peonidin 3-glucoside and cyanidin 3-glucoside. Treatment with peonidin 3-glucoside or cyanidin 3-glucoside resulted in a strong inhibitory effect on cell growth via G2/M arrest. Regarding cell cyclerelated proteins, peonidin 3-glucoside treatment resulted in down-regulation of protein levels of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)-1, CDK-2, cyclin B1, and cyclin E, whereas cyanidin 3-glucoside could decrease the protein levels of CDK-1, CDK-2, cyclin B1, and cyclin D1. In addition, cyanidin 3-glucoside or peonidin 3-glucoside also induced caspase-3 activation, chromatin condensation, and cell death. Furthermore, anthocyanins from O. sativa L. indica were evidenced by their inhibition on the growth of Lewis lung carcinoma cells in vivo.
16573690	Factors that enhance the transmission of pathogens are poorly understood. We show that Vibrio cholerae shed in human 'rice-water' stools have a 10-fold lower oral infectious dose in an animal model than in vitro grown V. cholerae, which may aid in transmission during outbreaks. Furthermore, we identify a bacterial factor contributing to this enhanced infectivity: The achievement of a transient motile but chemotaxis-defective state upon shedding from humans. Rice-water stool V. cholerae have reduced levels of CheW-1, which is essential for chemotaxis, and were consequently shown to have a chemotaxis defect when tested in capillary assays. Through mutational analyses, such a state is known to enhance the infectivity of V. cholerae. This is the first report of a pathogen altering its chemotactic state in response to human infection in order to enhance its transmission.
16574406	Three phase partitioning (TPP), a technique used in protein purification has been evaluated, for extraction of oil from three different plant sources viz: mango kernel, soybean and rice bran. The process consists of simultaneous addition of t-butanol (1:1,v/v) and ammonium sulphate (w/v) to a crude preparation/slurry. Under optimized condition, the protein appears as an interfacial precipitate between upper t-butanol containing oil and lower aqueous phase. Pretreatment of the slurries with a commercial enzyme preparation of proteases, Protizyme, followed by three phase partitioning resulted in 98%, 86% and 79% (w/w) oil yields in case of soybean, rice bran and mango kernel, respectively. The efficiency of the present technique is comparable to solvent extraction with an added advantage of being less time consuming and using t-butanol which is a safer solvent as compared to n-hexane used in conventional oil extraction process.
16574500	A 2-channel (2C) microinjector was prepared by pulling a glass capillary with a theta-shaped cross section. One channel was used as a potential measuring electrode (MeaE) and the other was used as an electrophoretic introduction electrode (IntE). The 2C microinjector was propelled by an oil pressure manipulator driven by a pulse motor, while the MeaE output was recorded continuously. When the 2C microinjector penetrated the cell membrane of a mouse ES cell or a rice protoplast, the output potential changed sharply. The differential of this potential change was used as a stop signal for the pulse motor. Thus, the microinjector was correctly positioned in the cell without losing cell viability. Its success rate was 73% and 84% for ES cells and rice protoplasts, respectively. After the positioning of the microinjector in the cell, Lucifer yellow (LY) was introduced via IntE. Under these conditions, the rate of viable cells was 16% and 62% for ES cells and rice protoplasts, respectively.
16574868	A characteristic feature of grasses and commercially important cereals is the presence of (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucans in their cell walls. We have used comparative genomics to link a major quantitative trait locus for (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucan content in barley grain to a cluster of cellulose synthase-like CslF genes in rice. After insertion of rice CslF genes into Arabidopsis, we detected (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucan in walls of transgenic plants using specific monoclonal antibodies and enzymatic analysis. Because wild-type Arabidopsis does not contain CslF genes or have (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucans in its walls, these experiments provide direct, gain-of-function evidence for the participation of rice CslF genes in (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucan biosynthesis.
16578806
16578892
16579727	The antioxidant activities of methanolic extracts of far-infrared irradiated rice hull (FRH) and non-irradiated intact rice hull (IRH) were determined. The antioxidant effects against reactive oxygen species (ROS) were evaluated by measuring scavenging activities against 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical, superoxide, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and nitric oxide radical and capacity for chelating metals. Except for H2O2 scavenging activity, FRH showed higher scavenging activity than IRH; for example, the 50% inhibitory concentration (mg/mL) values for DPPH radical scavenging of FRH and IRH were 0.067 and 0.085, respectively, as compared with 0.362 and 0.012 for butylated hydroxytoluene and alpha-tocopherol, respectively. The effect of rice hull extract on DNA damage induced by H2O2 in human lymphocytes was also evaluated by comet assay. The protective effect of rice hull extract increased as its concentration increased from 12.5 to 50 microg/mL, as indicated by DNA strand breakage decreasing from 38% to 22% with FRH and from 49% to 28% with IRH as compared with H2O2-treated positive controls. When human lymphocytes were post-incubated with rice hull extract for 30 minutes after exposure to H2O2, the protective ability of the rice hulls remained unchanged. These results suggest that methanol extracts of rice hulls possess significant ROS scavenging and metal chelating activities and protective effect against oxidative DNA damage.
16580105	The efficiencies of neutral salts, strong acids, and chelates were tested for extracting cadmium (Cd) from three paddy soils. The higher the selectivity of the cations of the added neutral salts toward soil adsorption sites, the lower the pH in the extracts and the more soil Cd could be extracted. In addition, soil carbon and nitrogen contents and mineral composition were closely associated with the amount of Cd extracted. Calcium chloride and iron(III) chloride were selected as wash chemicals to restore Cd-contaminated paddy soils in situ. Washing with calcium chloride led to the formation of Cd chloride complexes, enhancing Cd extraction from the soils. The washing also substantially decreased soil levels of exchangeable and acid-soluble Cd, which are the major forms of bioavailable Cd for rice (Oryza sativa L.). The optimum conditions for in situ soil washing were also determined for calcium chloride.
16580839	The Cd concentration in food is a public concern related to the human health. In order to remove Cd-polluted food, the development and validation of a rapid and sensitive method of Cd analysis is required. By applying the multiple gamma-ray detection method to prompt gamma-ray analysis (PGA), the influence from nuclei which emit only one prompt gamma-ray at a time at every neutron capture reaction can be reduced, therefore the quantification limit of Cd is improved significantly. The limit of Cd contained in rice in the case of MPGA was evaluated, and under our proposed experimental conditions, it may be possible to quantify Cd content in rice to within 0.2 ppm in 10 min.
16581104	The effect of lead (Pb) treatment on the soil microbial activities (soil microbial biomass and soil basal respiration) and rice physiological indices were studied by greenhouse pot experiment. Pb was applied as lead acetate at six different levels in two different paddy soils, namely 0 (control), 100, 300, 500, 700, 900 mg kg-1 soil. The results showed that the application of Pb at lower level (<300 mg kg-1) as lead acetate resulted in a slight increase in soil microbial activities compared with the control, and had an inhibitory influence at high concentration (>500 mg Pb kg-1 soil), which might be the critical concentration of Pb causing a significant decline in the soil microbial activities. However, the degree of influence on soil microbial activities by Pb was related to the clay and organic matter contents of the soils. On the other hand, when the level of Pb treatments increased to 500 mg kg-1, there was ecological risk for both soil microbial activities and plants. The results also revealed that there was a consistent trend that the chlorophyll contents increased initially, and then decreased gradually with increase in Pb concentration. Pb was effective in inducing proline accumulation and its toxicity causes oxidative stress in rice plants. In a word, soil microbial activities and rice physiological indices, therefore, may be sensitive indicators reflecting environmental stress in soil-Pb-rice system.
16581939	Transposons comprise a major component of eukaryotic genomes, yet it remains controversial whether they are merely genetic parasites or instead significant contributors to organismal function and evolution. In plants, thousands of DNA transposons were recently shown to contain duplicated cellular gene fragments, a process termed transduplication. Although transduplication is a potentially rich source of novel coding sequences, virtually all appear to be pseudogenes in rice. Here we report the results of a genome-wide survey of transduplication in Mutator-like elements (MULEs) in Arabidopsis thaliana, which shows that the phenomenon is generally similar to rice transduplication, with one important exception: KAONASHI (KI). A family of more than 97 potentially functional genes and apparent pseudogenes, evidently derived at least 15 MYA from a cellular small ubiquitin-like modifier-specific protease gene, KI is predominantly located in potentially autonomous non-terminal inverted repeat MULEs and has evolved under purifying selection to maintain a conserved peptidase domain. Similar to the associated transposase gene but unlike cellular genes, KI is targeted by small RNAs and silenced in most tissues but has elevated expression in pollen. In an Arabidopsis double mutant deficient in histone and DNA methylation with elevated KI expression compared to wild type, at least one KI-MULE is mobile. The existence of KI demonstrates that transduplicated genes can retain protein-coding capacity and evolve novel functions. However, in this case, our evidence suggests that the function of KI may be selfish rather than cellular.
16582442	Easy shattering reduces yield due to grain loss during harvest in cereals. Shattering is also a hindrance in breeding programs that use wild accessions because the shattering habit is often linked to desirable traits. We characterized a shattering mutant line of rice, Hsh, which was derived from a nonshattering japonica variety, Hwacheong, by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) treatment. The breaking tensile strength (BTS) of the grain pedicel was measured using a digital force gauge to evaluate the degree of shattering of rice varieties at 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, and 40 days after heading (DAH). The BTS of Hwacheong did not decrease with increasing DAH, maintaining a level of 180-240 gf, while that of Hsh decreased greatly during 10-20 DAH and finally stabilized at 50 gf. Optical microscopy revealed that Hsh had a well-developed abscission layer similar to the wild rice Oryza nivara (accession IRGC105706), while Hwacheong did not produce an abscission layer, indicating that the shattering of Hsh was caused by differentiation of the abscission layer. On the basis of the BTS value and morphology of the abscission layer of F(1) plants and segregation data in F(2) populations, it was concluded that the easy shattering of Hsh was controlled by the single recessive gene sh-h. The gene sh-h was determined to be located on rice chromosome 7 by bulked segregant analysis. Using 14 SSR markers on rice chromosome 7, the gene sh-h was mapped between the flanking markers RM8262 and RM7161 at distances of 1.6 and 2.0 cM, respectively. An SSR marker Rc17 cosegregated with the gene sh-h. The locus sh-h for shattering was tightly linked to the Rc locus conferring red pericarp, as well as a QTL qSD(s)-7-1 for seed dormancy, implying that this region might represent a domestication block in the evolutionary pathway of rice.
16582486	Pathogen-inducible oxygenase (PIOX) is a heme-containing membrane-associated protein found in monocotyledon and dicotyledon plants that utilizes molecular oxygen to convert polyunsaturated fatty acids into their corresponding 2R-hydroperoxides. PIOX is a member of a larger family of fatty-acid alpha-dioxygenases that includes the mammalian cyclooxygenase enzymes cyclooxygenase 1 and 2 (COX-1 and COX-2). Single crystals of PIOX from rice (Oryza sativa) have been grown from MPD using recombinant protein expressed in Escherichia coli and subsequently extracted utilizing decyl maltoside as the solubilizing detergent. Crystals diffract to 3.0 angstroms resolution using a rotating-anode generator and R-AXIS IV detector, and belong to space group P1. Based on the Matthews coefficient and self-rotation function analyses, there are presumed to be four molecules in the asymmetric unit related by noncrystallographic 222 symmetry.
16583932	This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study was performed in 67 patients of both sexes aged 20 to 78 years with moderate hypercholesterolemia to investigate the antilipemic efficacy and tolerability of food supplement policosanol--a mixture of aliphatic primary alcohols from rice (Oryza sp.). After a 8-week run-in period in which patients were placed on therapeutic lifestyle changes, in particular cholesterol-lowering diet, they were randomly assigned to receive policosanol 10 mg capsules or placebo capsules once daily with the evening meal for 8 weeks. During next 8 weeks those receiving policosanol during the first 8 weeks, received placebo and those taking placebo during the first 8 weeks, received policosanol. Total cholesterol (C), LDL-C, HDL-C, HDL2-C, HDL3-C, triglycerides, oxidized LDL, apoproteins A I and B and lipoprotein (a) as well as AST, ALT, GGT, CK, blood glucose and bilirubin were determined before the treatment, after the first part of the study i.e. after the first 8 weeks and at the end of the study, i.e after the second 8 weeks. Policosanol significantly reduced plasma total cholesterol and increased apoprotein A I but did not change plasma triglycerides, HDL-C, HDL2-C, HDL3-C, LDL-C, oxidized LDL, Lp (a) and apoproteinS. It was well tolerated, with no drug-related effects on safety parameters such as serum aminotransferases, blood glucose, bilirubin, and CK, neither did it cause any clinical adverse reactions.
16584824	Hazardous alcohol consumption is a worldwide problem with many locally distinctive features across cultures, but studies to guide policy in developing countries are notably lacking. This community study aimed to clarify local patterns of alcohol use in six villages of West Bengal, India. It considered the variety of local alcoholic preparations, who consumed them, when, and where. It sought to determine how social changes in the region influence changing patterns of acceptable and problem use of alcohol. Ethnographic methods included participant observation and focus group discussions. The qualitative data analysis of field notes and transcripts included a review of full texts and a computer-assisted analysis of thematically coded segments with reference to a structured agenda. We found that drinking is an integral feature of the cultural landscape. Locally brewed rice beer (handia), palm wine (tadi), distilled country liquor (chullu), and so-called Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) are consumed in these villages. Each is identified with particular segments of society and settings in these communities. Reported effects of problem drinking included social disturbances, family discord, and domestic violence. Increasing problem alcohol use was attributed by villagers to social changes resulting from development, which were otherwise valued, such as improved transportation and communications. In a field dominated by Western and urban studies, this research clarifies features of alcohol availability, use, and acceptance in a neglected rural area of India. It illustrates the limitations of western clinical models of dependence and the importance of clarifying sociocultural conditions that define locally acceptable and problem use.
16585620	Fertilizer leaching affects farm profitability and contributes to nonpoint-source pollution of receiving waters. This work aimed to establish nitrate nitrogen export from La Violada Gully in relation to nitrogen fertilization practices in its basin (La Violada Gully watershed, VGW, 19,637 ha) and especially in La Violada Irrigation District (VID, 5282 ha). Nitrogen (N) fertilization in VID (and VGW) was determined through interviews with local farmers for the hydrologic years 1995 and 1996 and NO3-N load in the gully was monitored from 1995 to 1998. The N fertilizer applied in VGW was 2175 Mg in 1995 and 2795 Mg in 1996. About 43% was applied in VID (945 Mg in 1995 and 1161 Mg in 1996). The most fertilized crop was corn: 398 kg N ha-1 (665 Mg) in 1995 and 453 kg N ha-1 (911 Mg) in 1996. Nitrogen fertilization was higher than N uptake for irrigated crops, especially for corn and rice. Nitrate N load in La Violada Gully averaged 427.4 Mg yr-1. Seventy-five percent of the exports took place during the irrigation season (321.8 Mg). During the non-irrigation season maximum NO3-N loads (3.1 Mg NO3-N d-1) were found after heavy rains following the N side-dressing of wheat in the rain-fed area of VGW (February). During the irrigation season NO3-N load was determined by outflow from the district (caused by irrigation) and to a lesser extent by changes in NO3 concentration (caused by fertilization), showing peaks in April (pre-sowing corn N fertilization and first irrigations) and June to August (highest irrigation months and corn side-dress N applications, maximum 6.3 Mg NO3-N d-1 in July). Adjusting N fertilization to crops' needs, improving irrigation efficiencies, and better scheduling N fertilization and irrigation in corn could reduce N export from VID.
16585711	Three yellow-pigmented strains associated with rice plants were characterized by using a polyphasic approach. The nitrogen-fixing abilities of these strains were confirmed by acetylene reduction assay and nifH gene detection. The three strains were found to be very closely related, with 99.9 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity and greater than 70 % DNA-DNA hybridization values, suggesting that the three strains represent a single species. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that the strains were closely related to Sphingomonas trueperi, with 99.5 % similarity. The chemotaxonomic characteristics (G+C content of the DNA of 68.0 mol%, ubiquinone Q-10 system, 2-OH as the only hydroxy fatty acid and homospermidine as the sole polyamine) were similar to those of members of the genus Sphingomonas. Based on DNA-DNA hybridization values and physiological characteristics, the three novel strains could be differentiated from other recognized species of the genus Sphingomonas. The name Sphingomonas azotifigens sp. nov. is proposed to accommodate these bacterial strains; the type strain is Y39T (=NBRC 15497T = IAM 15283T = CCTCC AB205007T).
16586021	Qualitative and quantitative estimation of phenolic compounds was done through reverse phase-high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) from different parts (leaf, stem, and root) of rice plants after inoculation with two rhizobial strains, RRE6 (Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli) and ANU 843 (R. leguminosarum bv. trifolii) and infection by Rhizoctonia solani. On the basis of their retention time, the major phenolic acids detected in HPLC analysis were gallic, tannic, ferulic, and cinnamic acids. Furthermore, in all Rhizobium-inoculated rice plants, synthesis of phenolic compounds was more consistently enhanced than in control (uninoculated plants), where the maximum accumulation of phenolic compounds was observed in plants inoculated with RRE6 and infection with R. solani. Under pathogenic stress, RRE6 performed better because a relatively higher amount of phenolics was induced as compared with plants treated with ANU 843. Phenolic acids mediate induced systemic resistance and provide bioprotection to plants during pathogenic stresses. In addition, both rhizobial strains promote growth and productivity of rice plants in greenhouse conditions. This report on Rhizobium-mediated defense responses and growth promotion of nonlegume (such as rice) provides a novel paradigm of symbiotic plant-microbe interaction.
16586025	Three novel endophytic rhizobial strains (RRE3, RRE5, and RRE6) were isolated from naturally growing surface-sterilized rice roots. These isolates had the ability to nodulate common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and sequencing of 16S rDNA of these isolates revealed that RRE3 and RRE5 are phylogenetically very close to Burkholderia cepacia complex, whereas RRE6 has affinity with Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. phaseoli. Plant infection test using gusA reporter gene-tagged construct of these isolates indicated that bacterial cells can go inside and colonize the rice root interiors. A significant increase in biomass and grain yield was also recorded in greenhouse-grown rice plants inoculated with these isolates.
16593403	We have shown previously that sorghum is highly digestible in the rat. However, other workers have shown that sorghum is much less digestible than wheat, maize, and rice in young children. Because the rat does not show these digestibility differences, we developed an empirical pepsin digestion method, first reported in 1981, which simulates the digestion values found in children. In this report the method has been improved and used to analyze wheat, maize, rice, millet, and sorghum and certain processed samples of millet and sorghum. The pepsin digestion values parallel those found in children for wheat, maize, rice, and sorghum. In addition, a processed sorghum product that gave a high digestion value in children also gave a high value with the in vitro pepsin method.
16593757	The bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene was expressed in protoplasts of three important graminaceous plant species after introduction of the gene by electroporation. Gene transfer occurred when high-voltage electric pulses were applied either directly or indirectly (without anode contact) to a solution containing plasmid DNA and protoplasts of rice, wheat, or sorghum. The indirect method was more rapid, resulted in higher protoplast viability, and was less subject to contamination than the direct-contact method. Gene expression of approximately equal magnitude resulted when the CAT gene was fused to either the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus or the copia long terminal repeat promoter of Drosophila. Together with recent advances in regeneration of callus and whole plants from protoplasts, this system makes it possible to study inheritance and expression of genes introduced into graminaceous monocotyledonous plants.
16593805	We have shown in previous reports that cooked sorghum protein is less digestible than other cooked cereal proteins. The pepsin-indigestible proteins in sorghum were found to be mainly prolamin proteins. Cooking sorghum in the presence of 2-mercaptoethanol increased protein digestibility (in vitro with pepsin or trypsin/chymotrypsin) to a level comparable with other cereals. At a concentration of 100 mM, other reducing agents (dithiothreitol, sodium bisulfite, and L-cysteine) were equally effective in improving sorghum digestibility. When maize was cooked in the presence of 2-mercaptoethanol, protein digestibility increased 5% compared to 25% for sorghum. Cooking barley, rice, and wheat with 2-mercaptoethanol had no significant effect on protein digestibility. The addition of reducing agents appears to prevent the formation of protein polymers linked by disulfide bonds.
16593854	The analysis of complex genetic determinants that control the ability of a fungus to colonize its host has been impaired by the lack of sophisticated genetic tools for characterizing important pathogens. We have developed a system for the genetic transformation of Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, to overcome this limitation. A M. grisea arginine auxotroph was shown to contain a mutation (arg3-12) that abolishes ornithine carbamoyltransferase activity. M. grisea strains that contain arg3-12 were used as recipients in transformation experiments with plasmid pMA2, which carries the ArgB(+) gene from Aspergillus nidulans. Stable prototrophic transformants arose at a frequency of about 35 per microgram of plasmid DNA. Integration of single or multiple plasmid copies occurred at a single site in the genome of each transformant; rearrangements were often created during integration. When M. grisea genomic segments were incorporated into pMA2, the presence of any one of five different M. grisea segments did not greatly affect the efficiency of transformation. Integration via homologous recombination occurred when the donor plasmid was linearized by cleaving at a unique restriction site within the M. grisea segment.
16594332	The runoff characteristics of pesticides from paddy fields to rural rivers were investigated over a period of three years in Hokkaido Prefecture, Japan. High pesticide concentrations were usually observed in rivers during pesticide application periods. In one year, the growth of rice seedlings slowed down after transplantation owing to low temperatures and lack of sunshine, and many farmers delayed herbicide application. In that year, high-concentration runoff of herbicides in rivers was observed 1-3 weeks later than in average years. The pesticide runoff rates ranged from 0.3% for fenthion to 42% for benfuresate. The runoff rates of pesticides applied post-flood were large. Furthermore, the larger the water solubility of the pesticide, the larger the runoff rate. The highest concentrations of herbicides in paddy water were observed on the day of application or 1-2 days later, and the concentrations decreased exponentially afterwards. The half-lives of the herbicides ranged from 1.2 days for pretilachlor and esprocarb to 5 days for simetryn; the concentrations of the herbicides in paddy water had decreased to 1/10 of their initial concentrations by about 7 days after application. Therefore, the runoff amounts of pesticides from paddy fields could be decreased by improving irrigation-water management.
16594344	A water quality model applicable to rice paddies was developed using field data from 1999-2002. Use of the Dirac delta function efficiently explained the nutrient-concentration characteristics of ponded water. The model results agreed reasonably well with the observed data. The ponded-water quality was influenced primarily by fertilization; nutrient concentration was especially high during early cultivation periods. Reducing surface drainage during the fertilization period may substantially reduce nonpoint source loading from paddies. Increased weir heights and shallow irrigation methods were evaluated by the model as practical methods for reducing nutrient loading from paddies. These methods were effective in reducing surface drainage and are suggested as "best management practices" (BMPs) if applied based on site-specific paddy conditions.
16595582	Cellular oxalate, widely distributed in many plants, is implicated to play important roles in various functions and is also known to affect food qualities adversely in fruits and vegetables. How oxalate is regulated in plants is currently not well understood. Glycolate oxidase (GLO) has long been considered as an important player in oxalate accumulation in plants. To gain further insight into the biochemical and molecular mechanisms, the possible roles of GLO in the process were studied. Drastically different levels of oxalate could be achieved by treating rice with various nitrogen forms (nitrate versus ammonium). While nitrate stimulated oxalate accumulation, ammonium reduced its level. Such treatments resulted in similar pattern changes for some other related organic acids, such as glycolate, oxaloacetate, and malate. By feeding plants with exogenous glycolate it was possible almost completely to restore the ammonium-decreased oxalate level. Under the two treatments few differences were observed for GLO mRNA levels, protein levels, and in vitro activities. Both K(m) for glycolate/glyoxylate and K(i) for oxalate remained almost the same for GLO purified from either nitrate- or ammonium-fed leaves. A further in vivo study, with transgenic plants carrying an estradiol-inducible GLO antisense gene, showed that, while the estradiol-induced antisense expression remarkably reduced both GLO protein levels and activities, oxalate levels were not significantly altered in the estradiol-treated transgenic plants. Taken together, it is suggested that oxalate accumulation and regulation is independent of GLO in rice leaves.
16595877	Candidate genes are sequenced genes of known biological action involved in the development or physiology of a trait. Twenty-one putative candidate genes were designed after an exhaustive search in the public databases along with an elaborate literature survey for candidate gene products and/or regulatory sequences associated with enhanced drought resistance. The downloaded sequences were then used to design primers considering the flanking sequences as well. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) performed on 10 diverse cultivars that involved Japonica, Indica and local accessions, revealed 12 polymorphic candidate genes. Seven polymorphic candidate genes were then utilized to genotype 148 individuals of CT9993 x IR62266 doubled haploid (DH) mapping population. The segregation data were tested for deviation from the expected Mendelian ratio (1:1) using a Chi-square test (less than 1%). Based on this, four candidate genes were assessed to be significant and the remaining three, as non-significant. All the significant candidate genes were biased towards CT9993, the female parent in the DH mapping population. Single-marker analysis strongly associated (less than 1%) them to different traits under both well-watered and low-moisture stress conditions. Two candidate genes, EXP15 and EXP13, were found to be associated with root number and silicon content in the stem respectively, under both well-watered and low-moisture stress conditions.
16596437	In this work, we estimate the contributions of the different sources of N incorporated by two N(2)-fixing cyanobacterial blooms (Anabaena sp. and Microchaete sp.) in the rice fields of Valencia (Spain) during the crop cycles of 1999 and 2000, and evaluate the response of nitrogenase and C assimilation activities to changing irradiances. Our results show that, far from the generally assumed idea that the largest part of the N incorporated by N(2)-fixing cyanobacterial blooms in rice fields comes from N(2) fixation, both cyanobacterial blooms incorporated about three times more N from dissolved combined compounds than from N(2) fixation (only about 33-41% of the N incorporated came from N(2) fixation). Our results on the photodependence of C and N(2) fixation indicate that in both cyanobacterial blooms, N(2) fixation showed a steeper initial slope (alpha) and was saturated with less irradiance than C fixation, suggesting that N(2) fixation was more efficient than photosynthesis under conditions of light limitation. At saturating light, N(2) fixation and C fixation differed depending on the bloom and on the environmental conditions created by rice plant growth. Carbon assimilation but not nitrogenase activity appeared photoinhibited in the Anabaena but not in the Microchaete bloom in August 1999, when the plants were tall and the canopy was important, and there was no limitation of dissolved inorganic carbon. The opposite was found in the Microchaete bloom of June 2000, when plants were small and produced little shade, and dissolved inorganic carbon was very low.
16596613	Molecular-dynamics (MD) trajectories and high-level ab initio methods have been used to study the low-energy mechanism for D(2)O-H(+)(H(2)O)(n) reactions. At low collisional energies, MD simulations show that the collisional complexes are long-lived and undergo fast monomolecular isomerization, converting between different isomers within 50-500 ps. Such processes, primarily involving water-molecule shifts along a water chain, require the surmounting of very-low-energy barriers and present sizable non- Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) effects, which are interpreted as a lack of randomization of the internal kinetic energy. Interestingly, the rate of water shifts was found to increase upon increasing the size of the cluster. Based on these findings, we propose to incorporate the following steps into the mechanism for low-energy isotopic scrambling these D(2)O-H(+)(H(2)O)(n) reactions: a) formation of the collisional complex [H(+)(H(2)O)(n)D(2)O]* in a vibro-rotational excited state; b) incorporation of the heavy-water molecule in the cluster core as HD(2)O(+) by means of isomerization involving molecular shifts; c) displacement of solvation molecules from the first shell of HD(2)O(+) inducing de-deuteration (shift of a D(+) to a neighbor water molecule); d) reorganization of the clusters and/or expulsion of one of the isotopic variants of water (H(2)O, HDO or D(2)O) from the periphery of the complex.
1659780	Epidemiologic studies revealed low mortality in hormone-dependent cancer in Japanese women and men consuming a traditional diet. We previously found that certain diphenolic food components, lignans and isoflavonoids, which are converted to biologically active hormone-like substances by intestinal microflora, may be cancer-protective agents. Therefore, we studied urinary excretion of these compounds (enterolactone, enterodiol, daidzein, equol, and O-desmethylangolensin) in 10 women and 9 men in a rural village south of Kyoto, Japan. The subjects consumed a typical low-fat diet with much rice and soy products, fish, and vegetables. An isotope-dilution gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric method was used for the assays. The urinary excretion of lignans was low but that of the isoflavonoids was very high. The excretion of isoflavonoids correlated with soybean-product intake. The low mortality in breast and prostate cancer of Japanese women and men, respectively, may be due to the high intake of soybean products.
16598073	MicroRNA167 (miR167) was shown to cleave auxin responsive factor 8 (ARF8) mRNA in cultured rice cells. MiR167 level was found to be controlled by the presence of auxin in the growth medium. When cells grew in auxin-free medium, miR167 level decreased, resulting in an increase in the level of ARF8 mRNA. Cells growing in the normal growth medium containing auxin showed a reversed trend. It was also shown that expression of OsGH3-2, an rice IAA-conjugating enzyme, was positively regulated by ARF8. Delivery of synthesized miR167 into cells led to decrease of both ARF8 mRNA and OsGH3-2 mRNA. This study provides an evidence in which the exogeneous auxin signal is transduced to OsGH3-2 through miR167 and ARF8 in sequence. This proposed auxin signal transduction pathway, auxin-miR167-ARF8-OsGH3-2, could be, in conjunction with the other microRNA-mediated auxin signals, an important one for responding to exogeneous auxin and for determining the cellular free auxin level which guides appropriate auxin responses.
16598662	This study evaluated the convergent and predictive validity of the Sex Offender Risk Appraisal Guide (SORAG; V. L. Quinsey, G. T. Harris, M. E. Rice, & C. A. Cormier, 1998) and the Static-99 (R. K. Hanson & D. Thornton, 1999, 2000) among 147 male sex offenders committed to a high-security hospital in Belgium (Centre de Défense Sociale "Les Marronniers"). Of the sample, 63.8% were child abusers (victims under 14 years of age), 24.6% were rapists (victims aged 14 years or more), and 11.5% were mixed-victim offenders (victims less than 14 years of age and victims aged 14 years or more). After an average follow-up period of 4.2 years (SD = 3.4 years), the sexual recidivism rate was 25.2%, the violent recidivism rate was 17.1%, and the general (any) recidivism rate was 33.1%. The SORAG and the Static-99 were moderately correlated with each other (r = .55), and both showed strong predictive validity for general and violent recidivism (ROC AUC's ranging from .68 to .72 for the total sample). Both instruments showed moderate predictive validity for sexual recidivism (AUC of .64 for SORAG and .66 for Static-99).
16598944	In order to find the factors influencing the prevalence of KBD, the possible nosogenetic factors of the family in Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) areas were analyzed. The possible nosogenetic factors in mild, middle, high prevalence KBD areas were analyzed by logistic regression. The differences of the factors between three kinds of KBD areas were compared. Univariate analysis found sanitary conditions and meat-egg-mild were associated with KBD prevalence in all kinds KBD areas. Binary logistic analysis of multivariate suggested the possible nosogenetic factors were different in the different kind of KBD areas. It was wheat in mild prevalence area, sanitary conditions and meat-egg-mild in middle prevalence area, and sanitary conditions, rice and meat-egg-mild in high prevalence area. The risk factors are associated with the kind of KBD areas. The different preventive methods should be taken according to the kind of KBD areas, which will improve the effect of prevention.
16599137	In order to survey the potential health risk of environmental exposure by mercury, Sprague-Dawley rats were reared by mercury contaminated rice from mercury mining area. The changes of neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in rat brain were examined at different times. The results show that the mercury-contaminated rice significantly increase the content of ACh in rat brain after exposure for 7 days. ACh maintained at a high level even after exposure for 30 days, but decreased significantly after exposure for 90 days. The changes of AChE represented an inverse trend compared with that of ACh. The coexisting selenium in rice exhibited antagonistic effects on both mercury accumulation and toxicity. The findings suggested that neurotoxic effects of environmental mercury contamination had been significantly represented after chronically dietary exposure. Further studies are needed to examine the relationship between the neurotransmitter level changes and the Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
16599665	The counterdiabatic principle [M. Demirplak and S. A. Rice, J. Phys. Chem. A 107, 9937 (2003)] is used in a pragmatic way to formulate a practical control strategy for perturbed population transfer. Interpreting the appearance of population in undesirable intruder or background states as phenomenological consequences of diabatic perturbations, such branching is suppressed as soon as it arises. By invoking a penalty term that is sensitive to any transitional population in undesirable levels, a correction field is created which effectively prevents diabatic behavior. This strategy is applied to the control of background state population in multiphoton excitations. For a model five-level system we show that leaking of a resonant three-photon transition to a background state can readily be suppressed by simple correction fields obtained from our intermediate-branching driven implementation of counterdiabatic control.
16600593	This study reports the production of xylanolytic and cellulolytic enzymes by a thermophilic fungal isolate Myceliophthora sp. using a cheap medium containing rice straw and chemically defined basal medium under solid-state culture. A combination of one factor at a time approach followed by response surface methodology using Box-Behnken design of experiments resulted in 2.5, 1.25, 1.28 and 4.23 fold increase in xylanase, endoglucanase, beta-glucosidase and FPase activity, respectively. The zymograms developed against IEF gels showed that multiple isoforms of xylanase (5), endoglucanase (4) and beta-glucosidase (2) were produced under optimized culture conditions. Moreover, thiol containing serine proteases produced during the growth of the culture had no role in the post-translational modification of these xylanases.
1660264	A comparison of Cu K-edge x.a.f.s. spectra with that of the equivalent Fe K-edge for chicken ovotransferrin (COT) indicates that the metal ions occupy essentially the same binding sites in the protein. However, in the case of the Cu2+ complex the metal appears to have reduced co-ordination. Changes are observed in the x.a.f.s. of 90%-saturated COT (Cu1.8COT) on freeze-drying. The three-dimensional X-ray structures of rabbit serum transferrin and human lactoferrin have shown that the ferric cations are co-ordinated by four protein ligands and a bidentate carbonate anion in a distorted octahedral arrangement [Anderson, Baker, Dodson, Norris, Rumball, Waters & Baker (1987) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84, 1768-1774; Anderson, Baker, Norris, Rice and Baker (1989) J. Mol. Biol. 209, 711-734; Bailey, Evans, Garratt, Gorinsky, Hasnain, Horsburgh, Jhoti, Lindley, Mydin, Sarra & Watson (1988) Biochemistry 27, 5804-5812]. This structural information, together with the differences in e.x.a.f.s. spectra for solution and freeze-dried samples of diferric COT [Hasnain, Evans, Garratt & Lindley (1987) Biochem. J. 247, 369-375] suggests that the synergistic carbonate anion may be capable of behaving as a unidentate linkage to the Cu2+ in the dicupric complex. Data for Cu1.8COT are consistent with only three protein ligands bound to Cu2+, monodentate binding of the synergistic anion in one lobe and its bidentate binding in the other lobe. Such flexibility in the anion co-ordination may be a requirement for the uptake and release of metals by the transferrins.
16602743	Rice flour (18-25% moisture) and potato starch (20% moisture) were heated with continuous recording of the X-ray scattering during gelatinization. Rice flours displayed A-type crystallinity, which gradually decreased during gelatinization. The development of the characteristic 9 nm small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) peak during heating at sub-gelatinization temperatures indicated the gradual evolution into a stacked lamellar system. At higher temperatures, the crystalline and lamellar order was progressively lost. For potato starch (B-type crystallinity), no 9 nm SAXS peak was observed at ambient temperatures. Following the development of lamellar structures at sub-gelatinization temperatures, B-type crystallinity and lamellar order was lost during gelatinization. On cooling of partially gelatinized potato starch, A-type crystallinity steadily increased, but no formation of stacked lamellar structures was observed. Results were interpreted in terms of a high-temperature B- to A-type recrystallization, in which the lateral movement of double helices was accompanied by a shift along their helical axis. The latter is responsible for the inherent frustration of the lamellar stacks.
16602836	According to the 2001 census conducted by the Government of India, India has more than 84 million tribals who constitute 8.2% of India's population. The Oraons are an agricultural tribe found mainly in Orissa, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. The present study was undertaken on a group of Oraon tribals working in a tea gardens of New Mal in Jalpaiguri district of West Bengal. The children attended the local primary school. The Oraons are covered by the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) of the Government of India, which is concerned with the health, nutrition and development of children and their mothers. To evaluate the effect of ICDS, the practices of adults towards hygiene, medication, addictive substances and diet were also recorded. 500 Oraon tribals, including 200 men and 150 women aged 20-45 years, and 150 children aged 6-12 years, were surveyed for their dietary intake by 24-hour recall and semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire methodology and anthropometry, and a description of food-related traditions. The diet of all Oraon groups was deficient in all food groups. Cereal intake was least deficient, while the intake of milk and fruit was almost negligible. Their diet was supplemented by a locally grown green leafy vegetable dheki saag, and fermented leftover rice. The energy available from the diet for all age groups was only 52-53% of the recommended dietary allowances of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Children were enrolled in a midday meal program at the local primary school; however, their energy intake was severely deficient, and of the same order as their parents. The mean basal mass index (BMI) of adult Oraons was not low, but children were severely undernourished. Men were less undernourished than were women. Some potentially useful traditions practiced included wiping washed utensils with leaves of a local plant mirchaiya, preparing herbal tablets called ranoodava to make an alcoholic and a medicinal drink called hadiya. The Oraons' knowledge of contraception, vaccinations, proper diet and supplements needed for successful pregnancy was severely deficient. A remarkable finding of this study on the Oraon tribals is that the BMI of children was substantially below that of adult men and women. This deficiency cannot be attributed to energy intake because energy intake of children, as percentage of recommended dietary allowance, was about the same as adults. The study shows that the midday meal program provided only approximately 25% of the energy requirements of the children; moreover, it was qualitatively deficient. It also seems that the midday meal replaced rather than supplemented home meals. Despite ICDS coverage, knowledge with regard to contraception, vaccinations, proper diet and supplements needed for successful pregnancy was very low. Interesting traditional practices concerned with methods of preparing food and use of local plants as medicines were observed and documented. Rural health professionals should ensure adequate quantity and quality of food supplementation. They should strive to disseminate health related knowledge. Traditional tribal practices should be studied for their nutritional and medicinal value. They could be responsible for the adequate BMI of adult Oraon, despite severe deficiency in energy intake.
16602946	Inducible defense-related proteins have been described in many plant species upon infection with oomycetes, fungi, bacteria, or viruses, or insect attack. Several types of proteins are common and have been classified into 17 families of pathogenesis-related proteins (PRs). Others have so far been found to occur more specifically in some plant species. Most PRs and related proteins are induced through the action of the signaling compounds salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, or ethylene, and possess antimicrobial activities in vitro through hydrolytic activities on cell walls, contact toxicity, and perhaps an involvement in defense signaling. However, when expressed in transgenic plants, they reduce only a limited number of diseases, depending on the nature of the protein, plant species, and pathogen involved. As exemplified by the PR-1 proteins in Arabidopsis and rice, many homologous proteins belonging to the same family are regulated developmentally and may serve different functions in specific organs or tissues. Several defense-related proteins are induced during senescence, wounding or cold stress, and some possess antifreeze activity. Many defense-related proteins are present constitutively in floral tissues and a substantial number of PR-like proteins in pollen, fruits, and vegetables can provoke allergy in humans. The evolutionary conservation of similar defense-related proteins in monocots and dicots, but also their divergent occurrence in other conditions, suggest that these proteins serve essential functions in plant life, whether in defense or not.
16603069	Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing (MPSS) technology was recently developed as a high-throughput technology for measuring the concentration of mRNA transcripts in a sample. It has previously been observed that the position of the signature tag in a transcript (distance from 3' end) can affect the measurement, but this effect has not been studied in detail. We quantify the effect of tag-position bias in Classic and Signature MPSS technology using published data from Arabidopsis, rice and human. We investigate the relationship between measured concentration and tag-position using nonlinear regression methods. The observed relationship is shown to be broadly consistent across different data sets. We find that there exist different and significant biases in both Classic and Signature MPSS data. For Classic MPSS data, genes with tag-position in the middle-range have highest measured abundance on average while genes with tag-position in the high-range, far from the 3' end, show a significant decrease. For Signature MPSS data, high-range tag-position genes tend to have a flatter relationship between tag-position and measured abundance. Thus, our results confirm that the Signature MPSS method fixes a substantial problem with the Classic MPSS method. For both Classic and Signature MPSS data there is a positive correlation between measured abundance and tag-position for low-range tag-position genes. Compared with the effects of mRNA length and number of exons, tag-position bias seems to be more significant in Arabadopsis. The tag-position bias is reflected both in the measured abundance of genes with a significant tag count and in the proportion of unexpressed genes identified. Tag-position bias should be taken into consideration when measuring mRNA transcript abundance using MPSS technology, both in Classic and Signature MPSS methods.
16603295	Soil washing is considered a useful technique for remediating metal-contaminated soils. This study examined the release edges of Cd, Zn, Ni, Cr, Cu or Pb in two contaminated rice soils from central Taiwan. The concentrations exceeding the trigger levels established by the regulatory agency of Taiwan were Cu, Zn, Ni and Cr for the Ho-Mei soil and Pb for the Nan-Tou soil. Successive extractions with HCl ranging from 0 to 0.2 M showed increased release of the heavy metals with declining pH, and the threshold pH value below which a sharp increase in the releases of the heavy metals was highest for Cd, Zn, and Ni (pH 4.6 to 4.9), intermediate for Pb and Cu (3.1 to 3.8) and lowest for Fe (2.1), Al (2.2) and Cr (1.7) for the soils. The low response slope of Ni and Cr particularly for the rice soils make soil washing with the acid up to the highest concentration used ineffective to reduce their concentrations to below trigger levels. Although soil washing with 0.1 M HCl was moderately effective in reducing Cu, Pb, Zn and Cd, which brought pH of the soils to 1.1+/-0.1 (S.D.), the concurrent release of large quantities of Fe and Al make this remediation technique undesirable for the rice soils containing high clay. Successive washings with 0.01 M HCl could be considered an alternative as the dissolution of Fe and Al was minimal, and between 46 to 64% of Cd, Zn, and Cu for the Ho-Mei soil and 45% of Pb in the Na-Tou soil were extracted after four successive extractions with this dilute acid solution. The efficacy of Cd extraction improved if CaCl2 was added to the acid solution. The correlation analysis revealed that Cr extracted was highly correlated (P < 0.001) with Fe extracted, whereas the Cu, Ni, Zn, Cd or Pb extracted was better correlated (P < 0.001) with Al than with Fe extracted. It is possible that the past seasonal soil flooding and drainage in the soils for rice production was conducive to incorporating Cr within the structure of Fe oxide, thereby making them extremely insoluble even in 0.2 M HCl solution. The formation of solid solution of Ni with Al oxide was also possible, making it far less extractable than Cd, Zn, Cu, or Pb with the acid concentrations used.
16603540	The recessive gene rymv-1, responsible for the high resistance of Oryza sativa 'Gigante' to Rice yellow mottle virus (genus Sobemovirus), was overcome by the variant CI4*, which emerged after serial inoculations of the non-resistance-breaking (nRB) isolate CI4. By comparison of the full-length sequences of CI4 and CI4*, a non-synonymous mutation was identified at position 1729, localized in the putative VPg domain, and an assay was developed based on this single-nucleotide polymorphism. The mutation G1729T was detected as early as the first passage in resistant plants and was found in all subsequent passages. Neither reversion nor any additional mutation was observed. The substitution G1729T, introduced by mutagenesis into the VPg of an nRB infectious clone, was sufficient to induce symptoms in uninoculated leaves of O. sativa 'Gigante'. This is the first evidence that VPg is a virulence factor in plants with recessive resistance against viruses outside the family Potyviridae.
16603668	The Reclinomonas americana mitochondrial genome contains a mitochondrial ribosomal protein L27 (rpl27) gene, whereas the rpl27 gene is absent from all plant mitochondrial genomes examined to date. This suggests that plant mitochondrial rpl27 genes have been transferred previously from the mitochondrial genome to the nuclear genome. A nuclear cDNA encoding mitochondrial RPL27 was identified in rice (Oryza sativa). Three similar sequences were identified: rpl27-1 and rpl27-2 on chromosome 8 and rpl27-3 on chromosome 4. Harr plot analysis suggests that they were generated by inter- and intrachromosomal duplications. Interestingly, the transcribed rpl27 gene (rpl27-1) acquired a promoter sequence that was derived from the rice spt16 (Osspt16) gene, the homolog of a global transcription factor in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) located downstream from the rpl27-3 sequence on chromosome 4, after inter- and intrachromosomal recombination. Reverse transcription-PCR and promoter assay revealed that the rpl27 mRNAs were mainly transcribed from rpl27-1. A repeat of seven nucleotides (AATAGTT) was identified at the junction of rpl27-1 and rpl27-2 on chromosome 8, and the same repeat was also identified at the 5' end of rpl27-2 and the 3' end of rpl27-1. This repeat (AATAGTT) contains the hot-spot sequence AGTT, which is preferentially recognized by topoisomerase I in wheat (Triticum aestivum) germ, suggesting the involvement of topoisomerase I in this recombination. We here report the example of promoter shuffling and show that this promoter shuffling resulted from a recent segmental duplication through inter- and intrachromosomal recombination events.
16604103	The genomic structure of a manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) gene in wheat was elucidated by sequencing a clone from a BAC library of a stripe rust resistant wheat line. The clone was identified by hybridization with a wheat MnSOD cDNA. The gene consisted of 6 exons interrupted by 5 introns with a total length of 4770 nucleotides from the start codon to the termination codon. The wheat MnSOD gene was the longest among those sequenced from plant species. The transcription initiation site was preceded by a G+C-rich promoter without a TATA or CAAT box. The promoter contained many putative cis-acting regulatory elements, including an abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive element, a stress-responsive element, and a GC-repeat, as well as several other structural features in common with the promoter of the rice MnSOD gene. A Stowaway-like transposable element was found in intron 5 of the wheat MnSOD gene, but further investigation revealed the transposable element was not present in all copies of the MnSOD genes.
16604111	The L2 ribosomal protein is typically one of the most conserved proteins in the ribosome and is universally present in bacterial, archaeal, and eukaryotic cytosolic and organellar ribosomes. It is usually 260-270 amino acids long and its binding to the large-subunit ribosomal RNA near the peptidyl transferase center is mediated by a beta-barrel RNA-binding domain with 10 beta strands. In the diverse land plants Marchantia polymorpha (liverwort) and Oryza sativa (rice), the mitochondrial-encoded L2 ribosomal protein is about 500 amino acids long owing to a centrally located expansion containing the beta3-beta4 strand region. We have determined that, in wheat, the functional rpl2 gene has been transferred to the nucleus and much of the plant-specific internal insert has been deleted. Its mRNA is only 1.2 kb, and two expressed copies in wheat encode proteins of 318 and 319 amino acids, so they are considerably shorter than the maize nuclear-located rpl2 gene of 448 codons. Comparative sequence analysis of cereal mitochondrial L2 ribosomal proteins indicates that the mid region has undergone unexpectedly rapid evolution during the last 60 million years.
16604457	Human CD14 plays an important role in innate immunity by being the key receptor of lipopolysaccharide found on Gram-negative bacteria. The recently discovered widespread localization of CD14 in secretions and mucosal surfaces reveals its extensive anti-microbial properties and numerous potential medical applications. To produce active recombinant human CD14 (rhCD14) for massive distribution, transgenic tobacco plants were successfully generated to express rhCD14 in the seed endosperm under the control of two versions (1.8 kb and 5.1 kb) of the rice glutelin Gt-1 promoter. Plant-made rhCD14 proteins reached a concentration of 16 microg/g of seeds and showed stability, proteolytic resistance to pepsin digestion and ability to induce the release of pro-inflammatory IL-6 and IL-8 cytokines in presence of LPS. The expression of plant rhCD14 in tobacco seeds constitutes a promising low-cost and abundant supply of this immune protein to further investigate its roles in, impacts on and potential medical applications for the innate immune system.
16604466	A number of quantitative, real-time PCR methods have been developed for determining transgene copy numbers in plants. Here, we demonstrate that the Roche LightCycler system can be used to determine the zygosity of transgenic lines without the use of standard curves or efficiency correction calculations. We have developed a duplex PCR assay which permits the determination of zygosity, relative to a calibrator sample, in transgenic rice lines containing the gene for a viral glycoprotein. Our data demonstrate that unambiguous 2-fold discrimination of copy number can be attained by calculating relative copy number using the threshold crossing point (Ct) calculated by the LightCycler software combined with delta delta Ct calculations, provided that the appropriate calibrator sample is included in each run. The method presented here is rapid, sensitive, robust and easy to optimise.
16605331	We study the probability distribution of residence time of a grain at a site, and its total residence time inside a pile, in different rice pile models. The tails of these distributions are dominated by the grains that get deeply buried in the pile. We show that, for a pile of size L, the probabilities that the residence time at a site or the total residence time is greater than t, both decay as 1/t(ln t)x for L(omega) < t < exp(L(gamma)) where gamma is an exponent > or = 1, and values of x and omega in the two cases are different. In the Oslo rice pile model we find that the probability of the residence time T(i) at a site i being greater than or equal to t is a nonmonotonic function of L for a fixed t and does not obey simple scaling. For model in d dimensions, we show that the probability of minimum slope configuration in the steady state, for large L, varies as exp(-kappaL(d+2)) where kappa is a constant, and hence gamma=d+2.
16606633	In 1996, cDNA sequences referred to as plant peroxiredoxins (Prx), i.e. a 1-Cys Prx and a 2-Cys Prx, were reported from barley. Ten years of research have advanced our understanding of plant Prx as thiol-based peroxide reductases with a broad substrate specificity, ranging from hydrogen peroxide to alkyl hydroperoxides and peroxinitrite. Prx have several features in common. (i) They are abundant proteins that are routinely detected in proteomics approaches. (ii) They interact with proteins such as glutaredoxins, thioredoxins, and cyclophilins as reductants, but also non-dithiol-disulphide exchange proteins. By work with transgenic plants, their activity was shown to (iii) affect metabolic integrity, (iv) protect DNA from damage in vitro and as shown here in vivo, and (v) modulate intracellular signalling related to reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species. (vi) In all organisms Prx are encoded by small gene families that are of particular complexity in higher plants. A comparison of the Prx gene families in rice and Arabidopsis thaliana supports previous suggestions on Prx function in specific subcellular and metabolic context. (vii) Prx gene expression and activity are subjected to complex regulation realized by an integration of various signalling pathways. 2-Cys Prx expression depends on redox signals, abscisic acid, and protein kinase cascades. Besides these general properties, the chloroplast Prx have acquired specific roles in the context of photosynthesis. The thioredoxin-dependent peroxidase activity can be measured in crude plant extracts and contributes significantly to the overall H(2)O(2) detoxification capacity. Thus organellar Prx proteins enable an alternative water-water cycle for detoxification of photochemically produced H(2)O(2), which acts independently from the ascorbate-dependent Asada-Halliwell-Foyer cycle. 2-Cys Prx and Prx Q associate with thylakoid membrane components. The mitochondrial PrxII F is essential for root growth under stress. Following a more general introduction, the paper summarizes present knowledge on plant organellar Prx, addressing Prx in signalling, and also suggests some lines for future research.
16606701	By constructing nearly isogenic lines (NILs) that differ only at a single quantitative trait locus (QTL), we fine-mapped the yield-improving QTL qGY2-1 to a 102.9-kb region on rice chromosome 2. Comparison analysis of the genomic sequences in the mapped QTL region between the donor (Dongxiang wild rice, Oryza rufipogon Griff.) and recurrent (Guichao2, Oryza sativa ssp. indica) parents used for the development of NILs identified the haplotypes of a leucine-rich repeat receptor kinase gene cluster, which showed extensive allelic variation. The sequences between genes in the cluster had a very high rate of divergence. More importantly, the genes themselves also differed between two haplotypes: Only 92% identity was observed for one allele, and another allele was found to have completely lost its allelic counterpart in Guichao2. The other six shared genes all showed >98% identity, and four of these exhibited obvious regulatory variation. The same haplotype segments also differed in length (43.9-kb in Guichao2 vs. 52.6-kb in Dongxiang wild rice). Such extensive sequence variation was also observed between orthologous regions of indica (cv. 93-11) and japonica (cv. Nipponbare) subspecies of Oryza sativa. Different rates of sequence divergence within the cluster have resulted in haplotype variability in 13 rice accessions. We also detected allelic expression variation in this gene cluster, in which some genes gave unequal expression of alleles in hybrids. These allelic variations in structure and expression suggest that the leucine-rich repeat receptor kinase gene cluster identified in our study should be a particularly good candidate for the source of the yield QTL.
16607027
16607031	Completed genome sequences provide templates for the design of genome analysis tools in orphan species lacking sequence information. To demonstrate this principle, we designed 384 PCR primer pairs to conserved exonic regions flanking introns, using Sorghum/Pennisetum expressed sequence tag alignments to the Oryza genome. Conserved-intron scanning primers (CISPs) amplified single-copy loci at 37% to 80% success rates in taxa that sample much of the approximately 50-million years of Poaceae divergence. While the conserved nature of exons fostered cross-taxon amplification, the lesser evolutionary constraints on introns enhanced single-nucleotide polymorphism detection. For example, in eight rice (Oryza sativa) genotypes, polymorphism averaged 12.1 per kb in introns but only 3.6 per kb in exons. Curiously, among 124 CISPs evaluated across Oryza, Sorghum, Pennisetum, Cynodon, Eragrostis, Zea, Triticum, and Hordeum, 23 (18.5%) seemed to be subject to rigid intron size constraints that were independent of per-nucleotide DNA sequence variation. Furthermore, we identified 487 conserved-noncoding sequence motifs in 129 CISP loci. A large CISP set (6,062 primer pairs, amplifying introns from 1,676 genes) designed using an automated pipeline showed generally higher abundance in recombinogenic than in nonrecombinogenic regions of the rice genome, thus providing relatively even distribution along genetic maps. CISPs are an effective means to explore poorly characterized genomes for both DNA polymorphism and noncoding sequence conservation on a genome-wide or candidate gene basis, and also provide anchor points for comparative genomics across a diverse range of species.
16608219	This study evaluated the expression of human cytochrome P450 genes CYP1A1, CYP2B6, and CYP2C19 in rice plants (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare) introduced using the plasmid pIKBACH. The transgenic rice plants (pIKBACH rice plants) became more tolerant toward various herbicides than nontransgenic Nipponbare rice plants. Rice plants expressing pIKBACH grown in soil showed tolerance to the herbicides atrazine, metolachlor, and norflurazon and to a mixture of the three herbicides. The degradation of atrazine and metolachlor by pIKBACH rice plants was evaluated to confirm the metabolic activity of the introduced P450s. Although both pIKBACH and nontransgenic Nipponbare rice plants could decrease the amounts of the herbicides in plant tissue and culture medium, pIKBACH rice plants removed greater amounts in greenhouse experiments. The ability of pIKBACH rice plants to remove atrazine and metolachlor from soil was confirmed in large-scale experiments. The metabolism of herbicides by pIKBACH rice plants was enhanced by the introduced P450 species. Assuming that public and commercial acceptance is forthcoming, pIKBACH rice plants may become useful tools for the breeding of herbicide-tolerant crops and for phytoremediation of environmental pollution by organic chemicals.
16608292	We have designed and fabricated a new hybrid nanoparticle that combines the intense local fields of nanorods with the highly tunable plasmon resonances of nanoshells. This dielectric core-metallic shell prolate spheroid nanoparticle bears a remarkable resemblance to a grain of rice, inspiring the name "nanorice". This geometry possesses far greater structural tunability than either a nanorod or a nanoshell, along with much larger local field intensity enhancements and far greater sensitivity as a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) nanosensor than any dielectric-metal nanostructures reported previously. Invoking the plasmon hybridization picture allows us to understand the plasmon resonances of this geometry, as arising from a hybridization of the primitive plasmons of a solid spheroid and an ellipsoidal cavity inside a continuous metal.
16608457	Increasing our understanding of the factors regulating seasonal changes in rice canopy carbon gain (C(gain): daily net photosynthesis -- night respiration) under elevated CO(2) concentrations ([CO(2)]) will reduce our uncertainty in predicting future rice yields and assist in the development of adaptation strategies. In this study we measured CO(2) exchange from rice (Oryza sativa) canopies grown at c. 360 and 690 micromol mol(-1)[CO(2)] in growth chambers continuously over three growing seasons. Stimulation of C(gain) by elevated [CO(2)] was 22-79% during vegetative growth, but decreased to between -12 and 5% after the grain-filling stage, resulting in a 7-22% net enhancement for the whole season. The decreased stimulation of C(gain) resulted mainly from decreased canopy net photosynthesis and partially from increased respiration. A decrease in canopy photosynthetic capacity was noted where leaf nitrogen (N) decreased. The effect of elevated [CO(2)] on leaf area was generally small, but most dramatic under ample N conditions; this increased the stimulation of whole-season C(gain). These results suggest that a decrease in C(gain) enhancement following elevated CO(2) levels is difficult to avoid, but that careful management of nitrogen levels can alter the whole-season C(gain) enhancement.
16614094	Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) is a 30 amino acid peptide hormone involved in insulin stimulation that is dependent upon blood glucose levels. We have previously reported that when this short peptide gene was directly expressed under the control of a glutelin promoter and its signal peptide, it was not accumulated in transgenic rice seed due to gene silencing. However, when the modified GLP-1 (mGLP-1) gene was enlarged to 5xmGLP-1 (mGLPx5) by tandem repeat, no silencing was observed. The mGLPx5 peptide could be accumulated in rice seed and its localization was mainly limited to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). We also investigated alternative cellular localization sites that would increase accumulation. The relationship between the expression level and localization was examined by attaching the chitinase signal peptide to mGLPx5 to direct it into the intercellular space (apoplast), or by expression as a fusion protein with glutelin by insertion into a variable region of the acidic subunit, thus directing the peptide to protein body II (PB II). Attachment of the KDEL ER retention signal to the 6xmGLP-1 (mGLPx6) or its fusion to the C-terminus of the 13 kDa prolamin directed the peptide to the ER or PB I, respectively. Unexpectedly, these results indicated that mGLPx5 without any signal except for the glutelin signal peptide was accumulated to the greatest extent in rice endosperm. It can thus be concluded that the ER is a suitable intracellular organelle for accumulation of mGLPx5 peptide.
16614172	Loss of seed shattering was a key event in the domestication of major cereals. We revealed that the qSH1 gene, a major quantitative trait locus of seed shattering in rice, encodes a BEL1-type homeobox gene and demonstrated that a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the 5' regulatory region of the qSH1 gene caused loss of seed shattering owing to the absence of abscission layer formation. Haplotype analysis and association analysis in various rice collections revealed that the SNP was highly associated with shattering among japonica subspecies of rice, implying that it was a target of artificial selection during rice domestication.
16614777	The recessive gene xa5 for resistance to bacterial blight resistance of rice is located on chromosome 5, and evidence based on genetic recombination has been shown to encode a small subunit of the basal transcription factor IIA (Iyer and McCouch in MPMI 17(12):1348-1354, 2004). However, xa5 has not been demonstrated by a complementation test. In this study, we introduced the dominant allele Xa5 into a homozygous xa5-line, which was developed from a cross between IRBB5 (an indica variety with xa5) and Nipponbare (a japonica variety with Xa5). Transformation of Xa5 and subsequent segregation analysis confirmed that xa5 is a V39E substitution variant of the gene for TFIIAgamma on chromosome 5 (TFIIAgamma5 or Xa5). The rice has an addition gene for TFIIAgamma exists on chromosome 1 (TFIIAgamma1). Analysis of the expression patterns of Xa5 (TFIIAgamma5)/xa5 and TFIIAgamma1 revealed that both the genes are constitutively expressed in different rice organs. However, no expression of TFIIAgamma1 could be detected in the panicle by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. To compare the structural difference between the Xa5/xa5 and TFIIAgamma1 proteins, 3-D structures were predicted using computer-aided modeling techniques. The modeled structures of Xa5 (xa5) and TFIIAgamma1 fit well with the structure of TFIIA small subunit from human, suggesting that they may all act as a small subunit of TFIIA. The E39V substitution in the xa5 protein occurs in the alpha-helix domain, a supposed conservative substitutable site, which should not affect the basal transcription function of TFIIAgamma. The structural analysis indicates that xa5 and Xa5 potentially retain their basic transcription factor function, which, in turn, may mediate the novel pathway for bacterial blight resistance and susceptibility, respectively.
16614820	The dehydration-responsive element binding proteins (DREB1)/C-repeat (CRT) binding factors (CBF) function as transcription factors and bind to the DRE/CRT cis-acting element (core motif: G/ACCGAC) commonly present in cold-regulated (COR) genes and subsequently upregulate the expression of such genes in Arabidopsis. We identified a DREB1A/CBF3-like gene, designated LpCBF3, from perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.) by using RT-PCR and RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA end). The LpCBF3 gene contains all the conserved domains known to exist in other CBF genes. A comprehensive phylogenetic analysis using known and computationally identified CBF homologs in this study revealed that all monocot CBF genes are separately clustered from eudicot CBF genes and the LpCBF3 is the ortholog of rice OsDREB1A/CBF3 gene. Similar to other DREB1A/CBF3 homologs, expression of the LpCBF3 is induced by cold stress, but not by abscisic acid (ABA), drought, or salinity. Overexpression of the LpCBF3 cDNA in Arabidopsis induced expression of the Arabidopsis DREB1A/CBF3 target COR genes, COR15a and RD29A, without cold acclimation. Ion leakage in leaves of the overexpression transgenic plants was significantly reduced, an indication of enhanced freezing tolerance. Our data demonstrated that LpCBF3 not only resembles DREB/CBF genes of Arabidopsis, but is also capable of functioning as a transcriptional regulator in Arabidopsis, a species distant to the grass family.
16619597	The development and survival of immatures of Culex vishnui (Diptera: Culicidae) complex, vectors of Japanese encephalitis virus, were studied in transplanted rice, Oryza savita L., fields during three crop growing seasons. The total duration of development from the first instar to adult emergence varied from 6 to 8 d. Survival rate estimates ranged from 0.003 to 0.524, but they generally were <0.1. Unusually high survival rates (0.192-0.524) were observed in summer and long-term monsoon crop seasons during 1993. A multiple regression method using backward elimination was used to analyze the factors responsible for these variations. The model identified nine parameters related with survival rates that explained 99% of the variance. Area of water surface and hardness were negatively related, whereas green algae, notonectid adults, anisopterans, dytiscids, salinity, water depth, and dissolved oxygen were positively associated with immature survival.
16619738	The fundamental reason that plant breeding using either conventional breeding or biotechnology is so cost-effective is that the benefits of a one-time investment at a central research location can be multiplied over time across nations all over the world. Supplementation and fortification incur the same recurrent costs year after year in country after country. However, each intervention has its own comparative advantages, such that a combination of several interventions is required to substantially reduce micronutrient malnutrition. Improving the density of trace minerals in plants also reduces input requirements and raises crop yields. A simulation model for India and Bangladesh demonstrated that $42 million invested in conventional breeding in developing and planting iron- and zinc-dense varieties of rice and wheat on only 10% of the acreage used for these crops would return $4.9 billion in improved nutrition (including a total of 44 million prevented cases of anemia over 10 years) and higher agricultural productivity.
16619739	To meet the nutritional needs of a rapidly growing world population, which is likely to reach 8 billion by 2030, 50% more food grains with higher and more stable yields must be produced. Biofortification is considered the most effective way to increase micronutrient intakes. It is low cost and sustainable and does not require a change in eating habits or impose recurring costs. A research project to improve the iron and zinc content of rice was initiated at the International Rice Research Institute in 1992. Several experimental lines of rice with increased iron and zinc content have been produced. In another experiment rices with beta-carotene have been produced. Other experimental efforts aim at raising the micronutrient content in wheat, maize, cassava, sweet potatoes, and beans. Maize with improved amino acid balance is being grown in several African countries.
16619743	In 2000, agriculture contributed 13% to the national gross domestic product of Malaysia. The country of 23 million people has created a competitive program coordinated by the Ministry of Science, Technology and the Environment, research institutions, and universities to undertake biotechnology research in several areas. Intensified research efforts are under way on oil palm, rubber, rice, papaya, and orchids. Although the most progress has been made in rice and papaya, no transgenic crop is ready for field trials. Nonetheless, preliminary steps have been taken to prepare for the trials, and detailed testing protocols are being developed.
16619851	Examination for CBH351 maize was conducted by the qualitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method in maize grain and maize processed foods obtained in the Tokyo area. The numbers of samples possibly positive in the screening test were 7 of 22 (31.8%) for maize grain samples, 4 of 14 (28.6%) for semi-processed foods, 11 of 30 (36.7%) for canned products, 3 of 30 (10.0%) for maize snacks, 3 of 4 (75%) for tacos and 1 of 3 (33.3%) for tortillas. However, CBH351 maize was not detected in the confirmation test. Therefore, the results of the screening test were false-positive. Since the reaction might have been caused by the base sequences of the 3'-end of primers CaM03-5' and CBH02-3' used in the screening test, a new primer pair was designed. The PCR products obtained with the new primer pair TMC2-5'--TMS2-3' were specific for CBH351 and were not obtained with barley, wheat, rice, RRS, Bt11, or Event176. Thus, the new primer pair shows high specificity. CBH351 maize was detected from samples containing at least 0.05% CBH 351 maize DNA by using this primer pair.
16619879	A study on scavenging local (n = 64) and crossbred (n = 64) pullets was undertaken in the dry and rainy seasons in two villages in Burkina Faso: Korea in the arid northern Sahelian region and Bounouna in the sub-humid south. After 4 weeks of scavenging, the birds were killed and the crop contents were subjected to physical and chemical analysis. Cereal grains, brans, green and dry forages, insects/worms and household leftovers were the main physical components. The proportion of cereal grains was higher in the rainy season, whereas the proportion of bran, peanut and sand/grit was higher in the dry season (p < 0.05). The proportion of kitchen waste and millet/milo grains was higher in local than in crossbred birds, whereas the opposite was the case for millet/milo bran (p < 0.05). Rice and local beer residues were not found in the crops of birds from Korea. Dry matter, ash, crude fibre and potassium contents were higher in the dry season (p < 0.05), while calculated metabolizable energy content was higher in the rainy season (p < 0.05). There were no location or breed effects on chemical composition parameters (p > 0.05), except that potassium content was higher in Korea. Mean live weight at slaughter was 806 +/- 22.0 g (local breed) and 881 +/- 22.0 g (crossbreds) (p < 0.05). Digestive organ weights, including contents, were higher for crossbred birds (p < 0.05). Gastrointestinal tract percentage was higher in the rainy season and in Bounouna (p < 0.05). The nutrient composition of the crop contents indicates the need for supplementation, particularly of protein, for higher levels of production.
16620597	To realize the contamination of total aflatoxins in corn, peanut, rice, walnut and pine nut in China, and provide the base data for establishing a China tolerance limit standard and an international control practice for total aflatoxins. The samples of corn, peanut, rice, walnut and pine nut from Chongqing, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hubei, Jiangsu, Shanghai and Zhejiang provinces and municipalities were collected randomly from markets, with the totally 284 samples. The samples were grounded and added to acetonitrile/water mixture. After filtering, the extract was transferred into a purifying column and pressed slowly. Then the purified liquid was derivatized with trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) and detected by using a high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). There was 70.27% corn having been detected out an average level of aflatoxins of 36.51 microg/kg and the highest level was 1098.36 microg/kg. At the same time, there was 14.86% corn exceeding the China national tolerance limit. In peanut, the aflatoxins detected rate was 24.24%. The average level was 80.27 microg/kg and the highest level was 437.09 microg/kg. While there was 3.03% peanut exceeding the China national and Codex tolerance limits. All of the rice, walnut and pine nut samples met the China tolerance limit for aflatoxins. Corn and peanut might be the severely contaminated foods with aflatoxins in China. The aflatoxin B(1) in foods might be can not delegate the contamination of aflatoxins completely. Surveillance of total aflatoxins in foods suggested an actual need of establishing the China national and international standards for total aflatoxins.
1662068	Experiments were carried out to study the digestibility of a cassava (gari) diet and its effect on growth in young male dogs. Three groups of dogs were fed on diets with rice (control), cassava (gari), and rice + cyanide respectively as the carbohydrate source. Each diet contained 130 g crude protein (nitrogen x 6.25)/kg, was supplemented with vitamins and minerals, and was fed for 14 weeks. Variables measured were body-weight gain, bone growth, plasma alkaline phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.1) activity, total serum 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3) and some plasma free amino acids. The apparent digestibilities of dry matter, protein and fat were not significantly different in the three groups, but the digestibility of gari fibre was significantly lower than the digestibility of rice fibre when fed to dogs (P less than 0.05). Proximate analysis of the faeces showed that the group of dogs fed on the gari diet had faeces which had a significantly higher moisture content than the faeces of the other groups (P less than 0.05), and also a significantly higher fibre content (P less than 0.05). There was no significant difference in body-weight gain and bone growth between the control and gari-fed groups of dogs, but these variables were significantly lower in the dogs fed on the rice + cyanide diet (P less than 0.05). At the end of the 14-week experimental period total serum T3 and plasma alkaline phosphatase activity were not significantly different between the control group of dogs and the gari-fed group, but were significantly lower in the rice + cyanide group. Plasma free methionine, leucine, isoleucine and valine concentrations were higher in the rice + cyanide group of dogs than in the control group and the gari group, indicating that these amino acids were accumulating and not being utilized for protein synthesis and growth to the same extent in the rice + cyanide group of dogs as in the other groups. It was concluded that the digestibilities of cassava starch and rice starch were the same in the dog but that rice fibre was more digestible in the dog than cassava fibre. It was also concluded that growth proceeded normally when a balanced gari diet or a balanced rice diet containing 130 g crude protein/kg was fed to dogs, but growth was retarded when a balanced rice + cyanide diet containing 130 g crude protein/kg was fed to dogs because total serum T3 concentration became greatly depressed.
16620896	Rice is one of the most interesting crops in the world from both the social and the economic point of views. The monoculture practices along with the heavy use of herbicides are characteristic of modern agriculture and are inducing the appearance of tolerant and/or herbicide resistant weed biotypes. This is the case the world's main weed of rice barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crus-galli). Alternative strategies for weed suppression consist of the use of chemicals from rice due to necessity of obtaining new herbicides with new modes of action that could prevent resistance phenomena. In order to carry out a study that guides to the isolation of the most active compounds from rice, different extracts were achieved, and their activities evaluated. So, all the plant material was divided into three parts: fresh plant, dried plant, and fresh plant from Pluviotron. The aerial part was separated from roots in all cases and extracted in water, in organic solvents as well as with the Pluviotron device. The activity of the 12 extracts obtained was evaluated using a generalist bioassay, wheat etiolated coleoptiles bioassay, and a phytotoxic bioassay on barnyardgrass as target species. The bioactive extracts were fractionated and 15 compounds were isolated and identified by spectroscopic methods. Eight of these compounds were isolated for the first time in Oryza sativa. The most phytotoxic compounds on E. crus-galli were ergosterol peroxide and 7-oxo-stigmasterol. In the case of ergosterol peroxide the activity was higher than the commercial herbicide Logran. This is the first report of potential allelopathic activity of steroids on weeds based on their phytotoxicity.
16621265	In this paper, rice straw was thermochemically modified with citric acid (CA) as esterifying agent. Two introduced free carboxyl groups of esterified rice straw were further loaded with sodium ion to yield potentially biodegradable cationic sorbent. In order to investigate the effect of chemical modification on the cationic dye sorption of rice straw, the removal capacities of native and modified rice straw sorbing a cationic dye (malachite green) from aqueous solution were compared. The effects of various experimental parameters (e.g. initial pH, sorbent dose, dye concentration, contact time) were investigated. For modified rice straw (MRS), the malachite green (MG) removal percentage came up to the maximum value beyond pH 4. For the 250 mg/l of MG solution, the 1.5 g/l or up of MRS could almost completely remove the dye from aqueous solution. Under the condition of 2.0 g/l sorbent used, the percentage of MG sorbed on MRS kept above 93% over a range from 100 to 500 mg/l of MG concentration. The sorption isotherms fitted the Langmuir or Freundlich models. The sorption equilibriums were reached at about 10 h. The sorption processes followed the pseudo-first-order rate kinetics. After chemical modification, the intraparticle diffusion rate constant (k(id)) was obviously increased. The results in this study indicated that MRS was an excellent sorbent for removal of MG from aqueous solution.
16621496	Trichoderma theobromicola and T. paucisporum spp. nov. are described. Trichoderma theobromicola was isolated as an endophyte from the trunk of a healthy cacao tree (Theobroma cacao, Malvaceae) in Amazonian Peru; it sporulates profusely on common mycological media. Trichoderma paucisporum is represented by two cultures that were obtained in Ecuador from cacao pods partially infected with frosty pod rot, Moniliophthora roreri; it sporulates sporadically and most cultures remain sterile on common media and autoclaved rice. It sporulates more reliably on synthetic low-nutrient agar (SNA) but produces few conidia. Trichoderma theobromicola was reintroduced into cacao seedlings through shoot inoculation and was recovered from stems but not from leaves, indicating that it is an endophytic species. Both produced a volatile/diffusable antibiotic that inhibited development of M. roreri in vitro and on-pod trials. Neither species demonstrated significant direct in vitro mycoparasitic activity against M. roreri.
16621512	Methane, which is an important greenhouse gas, is to a large part produced by methanogenic archaea in anoxic soils and sediments. Rice Cluster I methanogens have been characterized on the basis of their 16S rRNA and mcrA gene sequences, and were found to form a separate lineage within the phylogenetic radiation of Methanosarcinales and Methanomicrobiales. As isolation has not been achieved until recently, our knowledge of distribution, physiology and environmental significance of Rice Cluster I is solely based on molecular biology techniques. Rice Cluster I seems to be widely distributed, particularly in rice fields, possibly occupying different niches among the methane producers. One niche seems to be methane production on roots driven by plant photosynthesis, contributing substantially to the release of methane from rice fields into the atmosphere.
16621640	As a proof of concept, the qualitative and quantitative engineering of carotenoid formation has been achieved in crop plants. Successful reports in tomato, potato, rice, and canola all describe the enhancement of carotenoid with nutritional value, while in model systems such as tobacco and Arabidopsis the engineering of carotenoid to confer abiotic stress has been described. For all the successful applications there have been many examples of unintended/unpredicted phenotypes and results. Typically this has resided from our lack of understanding of carotenoid formation and its regulation. In the present article, we will review advances in carotenoid formation and its regulation to illustrate how metabolic engineering experiments have shed light on regulatory mechanisms.
16622321	The amylose content of rice caryopsis is determined by Wx protein, one kind of granule-bound starch synthetase which is encoded by Wx gene. Different rice types and species have different levels of Wx gene expression and have different amylose contents in their caryopsis. Wuyunjing No.7 (2200), the japonica rice with an amylose content 17% and its transgenic rice lines with antisense Wx gene (2201 and 2203, with amylose contents 8.5% and 2% respectively), and Longtefu (LP03), the indica rice with a high amylose content (28%) and its transgenic rice with antisense Wx gene (A199, with an amylose content 9%) were used to investigate the effects of Wx protein content decrease on the activities of enzymes involved in starch synthesis and thereby starch accumulation. The results indicated that with the decrease in Wx protein, the amylose content in transgenic caryopsis was reduced accordingly, whereas the amylopectin content per caryopsis (mg/grain) was not affected, and made the total starch content in transgenic caryopsis markedly lower than their parents. With the development of caryopsis, the amylose/total starch ratio was not changed significantly in the two parent caryopses, LP03 and 2200, but it went down gradually in their transgenic caryopses. The amylose/total starch ratio in transgenic caryopses was very significantly lower than their parents in the same period. The activities of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (ADPG-PPase), granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS), soluble starch synthase (SSS) and starch branching enzyme (SBE) rose rapidly in early periods of grain filling, and soon reached their maximum, then reduced quickly until the middle and later periods of grain filling. Compared with the parents, the GBSS activity in transgenic caryopsis was significantly lowered, and correlated with the amylose reduction. Besides, the maximum activity of GBSS appeared earlier, and the range of the activity was smaller. In transgenic caryopsis, the activities of ADPG-PPase and SSS were higher than their parents in early and middle periods of grain filling, while the SBE activity was higher than their parents in middle and late periods.
16622324	The GST (glutathione S-transferase) and GST+CAT1 (catalase 1) of Suaeda salsa were introduced into a low temperature-sensitive rice cultivar (Oryza sativa cv. Zhonghua No.11) by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter, and the transformed calli and plantlets were screened on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with hygromycin 25 microg/mL and cefotaxime 300 microg/mL. The putative primary transformants (T(0) generation) were acclimatized at 26 degrees C /22 degrees C in a greenhouse for 7 d, and then transplanted to the field, where they grew up to maturity under outdoor conditions. 25 and 14 independent transgenic lines of T(1) generation carrying the GST and GST+CAT1 genes, respectively, were identified by PCR amplification. Transgene expression was monitored by RNA-blot hybridization using total RNA samples from leaf tissues. To investigate whether expressing the Suaeda salsa GST and GST+CAT1 in transgenic rice increased low temperature stress tolerance, the T(4) 14-day-old transgenic and non-transgenic rice seedlings were transferred to a low temperature (day 7 degrees C/night 4 degrees C) growth chamber for 3-6 d. The experimental data showed that expressing the Suaeda salsa GST and GST+CAT1 enhanced low temperature stress resistance in transgenic rice seedlings. When treated with low temperature, both GST and CAT activity increased in the transformants with the time of temperature treatment. These transgenic rice plant seedlings exhibited a higher level of photosynthetic capacity than those of the non-transgenic control seedlings under low temperature treatment. Whereas, there were lower H(2)O(2) and MDA (malondialdehyde) content, and relative electrolyte leakage through the plasma membrane was also lower in transgenic rice seedlings than in the parent line under low temperature condition. The results also indicated that GST+CAT1 co-expression conferred greater level of low temperature stress tolerance to the transformed rice plants compared to the single GST transformed plants.
16622327	A 2-DE (two-dimensional electrophoresis) protocol suited for the separation of proteins from rice leaves was established. Protein extraction, quantitative loading of samples and concentrations of the gel were modified and improved to minimize markedly the interference by leaf pigments and other non-protein substances, thus resulting in satisfactory separation results.
16622580	An increasing number of lifestyle disorders have emerged in response to the rapid urbanization that has occurred in Thailand. Recently, leptin resistance has been nominated as a possible marker for the onset of metabolic disorders in Asian countries. The research aimed to assess the relationship between leptin-resistance and environmental and/or genetic factors by comparing urban and rural inhabitants in Thailand. A total of 212 age- and sex-matched subjects from an urban area (Bangkok) and from rural areas (Sai Noi) participated in the study. Anthropometric measurements, blood biochemistry, single nucleotide polymorphism analyses, and interviews concerning lifestyles and dietary habits were conducted individually. Backward elimination multiple regression analyses and least trimmed sum of square methods were used to estimate the effects of possible factors. A transition of staple food from rice to bread (decreased rice intake; p < 0.01 and increased bread intake; p < 0.05) was significant in urban areas. Leptin levels were higher in urban groups, with a significant difference in women (p < 0.001 in women and p = 0.06 in men), but not in men. Predictors selected for leptin-resistance in women were genotypes of UCP2, PPARg2, bread intake, living area, and smoking habit (r = 0.510); in men, genotypes of UCP2 and UCP3p, smoking habit, and rice intake (r = 0.315). Urban women with del/del type of UCP2 exhibited significant leptin resistance. A combination of urbanization and UCP2 genotype were considered to be responsible.
16622597	Inhibitors of action and synthesis of ethylene (Ag(+), norbornadien, Co(2+)) were able to reduce the level of gamma-aminobutyric acid (Gaba) in rice roots during the development of an anaerobic environment. The inhibitory effect was reversed by the addition of the G protein activator 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate. Gaba accumulation was modulated by the presence of CO(2) (inhibitor of ethylene action and synthesis) and stimulated by 2-chloroethylphosphonic acid (ethefon). These findings are consistent with a role of ethylene during a low-oxygen stress.
16623884	Telomeres, which are important for chromosome maintenance, are composed of long, repetitive DNA sequences associated with a variety of telomere-binding proteins. We characterized the organization and structure of rice telomeres and adjacent subtelomere regions on the basis of cytogenetic and sequence analyses. The length of the rice telomeres ranged from 5.1 to 10.8 kb, as revealed by both fibre-fluorescent in situ hybridization and terminal restriction-fragment assay. Physical maps of the chromosomal ends were constructed from a fosmid library. This facilitated sequencing of the telomere regions of chromosomes 1S, 2S, 2L, 6L, 7S, 7L and 8S. The resulting sequences contained conserved TTTAGGG telomere repeats, which indicates that the physical maps partly covered the telomere regions of the respective chromosome arms. These repeats were organized in the order of 5'-TTTAGGG-3' from the chromosome-specific region, except in chromosome 7S, in which seven inverted copies also existed in tandem array. Analysis of the telomere-flanking regions revealed the occurrence of deletions, insertions, or chromosome-specific substitutions of single nucleotides within the repeat sequences at the junction between the telomere and subtelomere. The sequences of the 500-kb regions of the seven chromosome ends were analysed in detail. A total of 598 genes were predicted in the telomeric regions. In addition, repetitive sequences derived from various kinds of retrotransposon were identified. No significant evidence for segmental duplication could be detected within or among the subtelomere regions. These results indicate that the rice chromosome ends are heterogeneous in both sequence and characterization.
16623886	Gibberellins (GA) promote while abscisic acid (ABA) inhibits seed germination and post-germination growth. To address the cross-talk of GA and ABA signaling, we studied two rice WRKY genes (OsWRKY51 and OsWRKY71) that are ABA-inducible and GA-repressible in embryos and aleurone cells. Over-expression of these two genes in aleurone cells specifically and synergistically represses induction of the ABA-repressible and GA-inducible Amy32b alpha-amylase promoter reporter construct (Amy32b-GUS) by GA or the GA-inducible transcriptional activator, GAMYB. The physical interactions of OsWRKY71 proteins themselves and that of OsWRKY71 and OsWRKY51 are revealed in the nuclei of aleurone cells using bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays. Although OsWRKY51 itself does not bind to the Amy32b promoter in vitro, it interacts with OsWRKY71 and enhances the binding affinity of OsWRKY71 to W boxes in the Amy32b promoter. The binding activity of OsWRKY71 is abolished by deleting the C-terminus containing the WRKY domain or substituting the key amino acids in the WRKY motif and the zinc finger region. However, two of these non-DNA-binding mutants are still able to repress GA induction by enhancing the binding affinity of the wild-type DNA-binding OsWRKY71 repressors. In contrast, the third non-DNA-binding mutant enhances GA induction of Amy32b-GUS, by interfering with the binding of the wild-type OsWRKY71 or the OsWRKY71/OsWRKY51 repressing complex. These data demonstrate the synergistic interaction of ABA-inducible WRKY genes in regulating GAMYB-mediated GA signaling in aleurone cells, thereby establishing a novel mechanism for ABA and GA signaling cross-talk.
16623891	Since auxin was first isolated and characterized as a plant hormone, the underlying molecular mechanism of auxin signaling has been elucidated primarily in dicot plants represented by Arabidopsis. In monocot plants, the molecular mechanism of auxin signaling has remained unclear, despite various physiological experiments. To understand the function and mechanism of auxin signaling in rice (Oryza sativa), we focused on the IAA gene, a well-studied gene in Arabidopsis that serves as a negative regulator of auxin signaling. We found 24 IAA gene family members in the rice genome. OsIAA3 is one of these family members whose expression is rapidly increased in response to auxin. We produced transgenic rice harboring mOsIAA3-GR, which can overproduce mutant OsIAA3 protein containing an amino acid change in domain II to cause a gain-of-function phenotype, by treatment with dexamethasone. The transgenic rice was insensitive to auxin and gravitropic stimuli, and exhibited short leaf blades, reduced crown root formation, and abnormal leaf formation. These results suggest that, in rice, auxin is important for development and its signaling is mediated by IAA genes.
16623898	Metabolomic approaches were used to elucidate some key metabolite changes occurring during interactions of Magnaporthe grisea--the cause of rice blast disease--with an alternate host, Brachypodium distachyon. Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy provided a high-throughput metabolic fingerprint of M. grisea interacting with the B. distachyon accessions ABR1 (susceptible) and ABR5 (resistant). Principal component-discriminant function analysis (PC-DFA) allowed the differentiation between developing disease symptoms and host resistance. Alignment of projected 'test-set' on to 'training-set' data indicated that our experimental approach produced highly reproducible data. Examination of PC-DFA loading plots indicated that fatty acids were one chemical group that discriminated between responses by ABR1 and ABR5 to M. grisea. To identify these, non-polar extracts of M. grisea-challenged B. distachyon were directly infused into an electrospray ionization mass spectrometer (ESI-MS). PC-DFA indicated that M. grisea-challenged ABR1 and ABR5 were differentially clustered away from healthy material. Subtraction spectra and PC-DFA loadings plots revealed discriminatory analytes (m/z) between each interaction and seven metabolites were subsequently identified as phospholipids (PLs) by ESI-MS-MS. Phosphatidyl glycerol (PG) PLs were suppressed during both resistant and susceptible responses. By contrast, different phosphatidic acid PLs either increased or were reduced during resistance or during disease development. This suggests considerable and differential PL processing of membrane lipids during each interaction which may be associated with the elaboration/suppression of defence mechanisms or developing disease symptoms.
16623902	In this paper, we report the identification of genes from pine (PpAAT), Arabidopsis (AtAAT) and rice (OsAAT) encoding a novel class of aspartate aminotransferase (AAT, EC 2.6.1.1) in plants. The enzyme is unrelated to other eukaryotic AATs from plants and animals but similar to bacterial enzymes. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that this prokaryotic-type AAT is closely related to cyanobacterial enzymes, suggesting it might have an endosymbiotic origin. Interestingly, most of the essential residues involved in the interaction with the substrate and the attachment of pyridoxal phosphate cofactor in the active site of the enzyme were conserved in the deduced polypeptide. The polypeptide is processed in planta to a mature subunit of 45 kDa that is immunologically distinct from the cytosolic, mitochondrial and chloroplastic isoforms of AAT previously characterized in plants. Functional expression of PpAAT sequences in Escherichia coli showed that the processed precursor is assembled into a catalytically active homodimeric holoenzyme that is strictly specific for aspartate. These atypical genes are predominantly expressed in green tissues of pine, Arabidopsis and rice, suggesting a key role of this AAT in nitrogen metabolism associated with photosynthetic activity. Moreover, immunological analyses revealed that the plant prokaryotic-type AAT is a nuclear-encoded chloroplast protein. This implies that two plastidic AAT co-exist in plants: a eukaryotic type previously characterized and the prokaryotic type described here. The respective roles of these two enzymes in plant amino acid metabolism are discussed.
16623909	The basic structure of a rice inflorescence (the panicle) is determined by the pattern of branch formation, which is established at the early stages of panicle development. In this study we conducted global transcriptome profiling of the early stages of rice panicle development from phase transition to floral organ differentiation. To generate a meristem-specific gene-expression profile, shoot apical meristems (SAMs) and subsequently formed, very young panicles were collected manually and used for cDNA microarray analysis. We identified 357 out of 22,000 genes that are expressed differentially in the early stages of panicle development, and the 357 genes were classified into seven groups based on their temporal expression patterns. The most noticeable feature is that a fairly small number of genes, which are extensively enriched in transcription factors, are upregulated in the SAM immediately after phase transition. In situ hybridization analysis showed that each gene analysed exhibits a unique and interesting localization of mRNA. Remarkably, one of the transcription factors was proven to be a close downstream component of the pathway in which LAX, a major regulator of panicle branching, acts. These results suggest that our strategy--careful collection of meristems, global transcriptome analysis and subsequent in situ hybridization analysis--is useful not only to obtain a genome-wide view of gene expression, but also to reveal genetic networks controlling rice panicle development.
16624379	The bioavailability, soil-to-plant transfer and associated health risks of arsenic in soils collected from paddy rice fields and vegetable fields in suburban areas of some major cities of Fujian Province were investigated. The total soil concentrations of arsenic ranged from 1.29 to 25.28 mg kg(-)(1) with a mean of 6.09 mg kg(-)(1). Available (NaH(2)PO(4)-extractable) arsenic content accounted for 0.7-38.2% of total soil arsenic and was significantly correlated with total soil arsenic content. For the vegetable soils, the available fraction (ratio of available As to total As) of arsenic decreased with decreasing silt (particle size 0.02-0.002 mm) and free iron (DCB extractable) contents and with increasing soil pH and organic matter content. The available fraction of arsenic in the paddy rice soils increased with increasing free iron and organic matter contents and decreasing soil pH and silt content. The correlation of NaH(2)PO(4)-extractable arsenic with the arsenic concentration of the vegetables was much better than that of total As. The transfer factor based on the soil available arsenic (TF(avail)) was chosen to compare the accumulation ability of the various crops. The TF(avail) values of rice grains (air-dried weight basis) ranged between 0.068 and 0.44 and were higher than those of the vegetables, ranging from 0.001 to 0.12. The accumulation ability of the crops decreased in the order of rice>radish>water spinach>celery>onion>taro>leaf mustard>fragrant-flowered garlic>pakchoi>Chinese cabbage>lettuce>garlic>cowpea>cauliflower>bottle gourd>towel gourd>eggplant. Daily consumption of rice and other As-rich vegetables could result in an excessive intake of arsenic, based on the provisional tolerable intake for adults for arsenic recommended by WHO.
16624516	Bread wheat chromosome 3A has been shown to contain genes/QTLs controlling grain yield and other agronomic traits. The objectives of this study were to generate high-density physical and genetic-linkage maps of wheat homoeologous group 3 chromosomes and reveal the physical locations of genes/QTLs controlling yield and its component traits, as well as agronomic traits, to obtain a precise estimate of recombination for the corresponding regions and to enrich the QTL-containing regions with markers. Physical mapping was accomplished by 179 DNA markers mostly representing expressed genes using 41 single-break deletion lines. Polymorphism survey of cultivars Cheyenne (CNN) and Wichita (WI), and a substitution line of CNN carrying chromosome 3A from WI [CNN(WI3A)], with 142 RFLP probes and 55 SSR markers revealed that the extent of polymorphism is different among various group 3 chromosomal regions as well as among the homoeologs. A genetic-linkage map for chromosome 3A was developed by mapping 17 QTLs for seven agronomic traits relative to 26 RFLP and 15 SSR chromosome 3A-specific markers on 95 single-chromosome recombinant inbred lines. Comparison of the physical maps with the 3A genetic-linkage map localized the QTLs to gene-containing regions and accounted for only about 36% of the chromosome. Two chromosomal regions containing 9 of the 17 QTLs encompassed less than 10% of chromosome 3A but accounted for almost all of the arm recombination. To identify rice chromosomal regions corresponding to the particular QTL-containing wheat regions, 650 physically mapped wheat group 3 sequences were compared with rice genomic sequences. At an E value of E < or = 10(-5), 82% of the wheat group 3 sequences identified rice homologs, of which 54% were on rice chromosome 1. The rice chromosome 1 region collinear with the two wheat regions that contained 9 QTLs was about 6.5 Mb.
16624618	Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) plays a central role in modulating endogenous N-acylethanolamine (NAE) levels in vertebrates, and, in part, constitutes an "endocannabinoid" signaling pathway that regulates diverse physiological and behavioral processes in animals. Recently, an Arabidopsis FAAH homologue was identified which catalyzed the hydrolysis of NAEs in vitro suggesting a FAAH-mediated pathway exists in plants for the metabolism of endogenous NAEs. Here, we provide evidence to support this concept by identifying candidate FAAH genes in monocots (Oryza sativa) and legumes (Medicago truncatula), which have similar, but not identical, exon-intron organizations. Corresponding M. truncatula and rice cDNAs were isolated and cloned into prokaryotic expression vectors and expressed as recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli. NAE amidohydrolase assays confirmed that these proteins indeed catalyzed the hydrolysis of 14C-labeled NAEs in vitro. Kinetic parameters and inhibition properties of the rice FAAH were similar to those of Arabidopsis and rat FAAH, but not identical. Sequence alignments and motif analysis of plant FAAH enzymes revealed a conserved domain organization for these members of the amidase superfamily. Five amino-acid residues determined to be important for catalysis by rat FAAH were absolutely conserved within the FAAH sequences of six plant species. Homology modeling of the plant FAAH proteins using the rat FAAH crystal structure as a template revealed a conserved protein core that formed the active site of each enzyme. Collectively, these results indicate that plant and mammalian FAAH proteins have similar structure/activity relationships despite limited overall sequence identity. Defining the molecular properties of NAE amidohydrolase enzymes in plants will help to better understand the metabolic regulation of NAE lipid mediators.
16625830	T-DNA tagging technique has provided a powerful strategy for identifying new functional genes in plants, and the key for success is the discovery of T-DNA-inserted mutants with changed phenotype. In this study, we screened 4,416 rice T1 tagged lines generated by enhancer trap system integrated with GLL4/VP16-UAS elements from two transformed parents, ZH11 and ZH15. We found many lines showed obvious morphological mutations, including two types--fake-homozygous mutation and separating mutation. The mutation phenotype was related to 14 kinds of trait such as plant height, heading date, leaf shape, leaf color, tiller number, panicle shape, spikelet number, grain shape, disease-like mutation, male sterility, awn, and so on. Among them, plant height, heading date, leaf color and male sterility had a comparatively high mutation frequency (over 1%). The mutation frequency of plant height and leaf color had no significant change between different years or transformed parents, but the frequency of heading date and male sterility varied greatly, suggesting that environment had a great effect on the expression of latter two traits. By conducting continuously co-segregating analyses in T1 and T2 generation, we identified 3 T-DNA-inserted mutants with malformed panicle or spikelets, which would provide a base for cloning correlative functional genes. At the same time, we selected randomly 42 lines with mutation phenotype and obtained 40 flanking sequences from 39 tagged lines by plasmid rescue or TAIL-PCR, of which, 26 were vector backbone sequence, 14 had good identity to rice genome sequence. The BlastN result showed the T-DNA preferentially integrated into protein-coding region in plants.
16625831	Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) was used to analyze mitochondrial (mt) genome of cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) rice. Differences were observed among mitochondrial genomes of the sterile line (A) and maintain line (B) of nine types of CMS rice; Mitochondrial genomic differences were also detected between A and B in many functional gene regions. Even the materials with the same nucleic background have differences in their mtDNA. This provides molecular evidence for the cytoplasmic heterogeneity and the CMS mechanism research.
16625832	A rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutant with an excessive tiller number, designated ext-M1B, was found in the F2 progenies generated from the cross between M1B and GMS-1 (a genetic male sterile), whose number of tillers was 121. The excessive tillering mutant also resulted in significant changes in plant height, flag leaf, stem, filled grains per panicle, and productive panicles per plant. The inbreeding progenies of ext-M1B exhibited the same mutant phenotype. The crosses from ext-M1B/M1B, M1B/ext-M1B, 2480B/ext-M1B, D62B/ext-M1B, G46B/ext-M1B, and G683B/ext-M1B expressed normal tillering in F1, and segregated into two different phenotypes of normal tillering type and excessive tillering type in a ratio of 3:1 in F2. Inheritance analysis indicated that the excessive tillering character was controlled by a single recessive nucleic gene. By BSA (bulked segregants analysis) and microsatellite makers with the F2 population of 2480B/ext-M1B as the mapping population, RM197, RM584, and RM225, all of which were located on the short arm of rice chromosome 6, were identified to be linked with the excessive tillering gene with genetic distance of 3.8 cM, 5.1 cM, and 5.2 cM, respectively. This gene is probably a new excessive tillering gene in rice and is designated tentatively ext-M1B (t).
16626457	Many domesticated crops are derived from species whose life history includes weedy characteristics, such as the ability to vary branching patterns in response to environmental conditions. However, domesticated crop plants are characterized by less variable plant architecture, as well as by a general reduction in vegetative branching compared to their progenitor species. Here we examine weedy green millet and its domesticate foxtail millet that differ in the number of tillers (basal branches) and axillary branches along each tiller. Branch number in F(2:3) progeny of a cross between the two species varies with genotype, planting density, and other environmental variables, with significant genotype-environment interactions (GEI). This is shown by a complex pattern of reaction norms and by variation in the pattern of significant quantitative trait loci (QTL) amongst trials. Individual and joint analyses of high and low density trials indicate that most QTL have significant GEI. Dominance and epistasis also explain some variation in branching. Likely candidate genes underlying the QTL (based on map position and phenotypic effect) include teosinte branched1 and barren stalk1. Phytochrome B, which has been found to affect response to shading in other plants, explains little or no variation. Much variation in branching is explained by QTL that do not have obvious candidate genes from maize or rice.
16627650	In order to develop a detection method for the rice pathogens Burkholderia plantarii, Burkholderia glumae and Burkholderia gladioli, the phylogeny of six plant-pathogenic Burkholderia species was analysed using the combined nucleotide sequences of gyrB and rpoD. B. plantarii, B. glumae and B. gladioli formed tight monophyletic branches supported by high bootstrap probabilities. The high sequence similarity revealed a close phylogenetic relationship between B. glumae and B. plantarii. B. plantarii strains were divided into three subclusters comprising rice strains, whereas the single Vanda strain occupied a unique position in the phylogenetic tree. The gyrB and rpoD sequences of all B. glumae strains examined were highly conserved. In contrast, B. gladioli strains demonstrated a far greater sequence diversity, but this diversity did not correlate with pathovar, host plant or geographical origin of the strains. A multiplex-PCR protocol using specific primers from the gyrB sequences was designed that allowed the specific detection and identification of B. plantarii, B. glumae and B. gladioli in rice seeds infected with these pathogenic species.
16628404	A molecularly imprinted polymer prepared using 1-allylpiperazine (1-ALPP) as the functional monomer, trimethyltrimethacrylate (TRIM) as the crosslinker and the zearalenone (ZON)-mimicking template cyclododecanyl-2,4-dihydroxybenzoate (CDHB) has been applied to the clean-up and preconcentration of this mycotoxin (zearalenone) and a related metabolite, alpha-zearalenol (alpha-ZOL), from cereal and swine feed sample extracts. The extraction of ZON and alpha-ZOL from the food samples was accomplished using pressurized liquid extraction (PLE) with MeOH/ACN (50:50, v/v) as the extraction solvent, at 50 degrees C and 1500 psi. The extracted samples were cleaned up and preconcentrated through the MIP cartridge and analyzed using HPLC with fluorescence detection (lambda (exc)=271/ lambda (em)=452 nm). The stationary phase was a polar endcapped C18 column, and ACN/MeOH/water 10/55/35 (v/v/v, 15 mM ammonium acetate) at a flow rate of 1.0 mL min(-1) was used as the mobile phase. The method was applied to the analysis of ZON and alpha-ZOL in wheat, corn, barley, rye, rice and swine feed samples fortified with 50, 100 and 400 ng g(-1) of both mycotoxins, and it gave recoveries of between 85 and 97% (RSD 2.1-6.7%, n=3) and 87-97% (RSD 2.3-5.6%, n=3) for alpha-ZOL and ZON, respectively. The method was validated using a corn reference material for ZON.
16628563	The effects of overlapping levels and concentration ratios of overlapping components, and of scan rates of the mass spectrometer, on the capability of the automated mass spectral deconvolution and identification system (AMDIS) in pesticide residue analysis were studied. To investigate the capability of AMDIS in removing interferences from the overlapping peaks, this system was applied to data files obtained from the gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) analysis of two overlapping (co-eluting) pesticides (beta-HCH and PCNB) in full scan mode. Differences in overlap levels, the concentration ratios of the two overlapping components and the scan rates of the instrument were studied. When the difference in scan number of overlapping compounds was equal to 1 scan, AMDIS incompletely extracted 'purified' mass spectra but as the difference increased to 3 or more scans, complete correct spectra could be extracted. The results also show that when the scan rate was in the range of 0.4-0.90 s/scan and the concentration ratios of the target compound/interference were above 1/5, there were ideal deconvolution results for this approach. To further study the application of AMDIS to pesticide residue analysis, AMDIS was applied to the identification of pesticides spiked in real samples (cabbage and rice). Typical pesticides being evaluated were identified using AMDIS at concentrations >50 ng/g in the extracts.
16629028	Potato puree and penne pasta were inoculated with cereulide producing B. cereus 5964a and B. cereus NS117. Static incubation at 28 degrees C proved these two foods to be a better substrate for higher cereulide production (4,080 ng/g in puree and 3,200 ng/g in penne were produced by B. cereus 5964a during 48 h of incubation) compared with boiled rice (2,000 ng/g). This difference occurred despite B. cereus counts of more than 10(8) CFU/g in all three products. Aeration of cultures had a negative effect on cereulide production, causing concentrations more than 10-fold lower than in some statically incubated samples. Cereulide production remained undetectable in shaken milk, whereas it reached 1,140 ng/ml in statically incubated milk. At 12 and 22 degrees C, presence of background flora was also a determinative factor. A total B. cereus count of more than 106 CFU/ml did not necessarily lead to uniform cereulide production and was also dependent on the B. cereus strain involved. In this study, we confirm that a number of factors play a crucial role in the determination of the extent to which, if at all, cereulide will be produced. Among those, type of the food, temperature, pH, and whether additional aeration (via incubation on an orbital shaker) is induced had an important role. An important effect was also induced by the cereulide-producing strain involved.
16629994	The aims of the study were to identify the effects of rice endophyte Pantoea agglomerans YS19 on host plant growth and allocations of photosynthates. Endophytic diazotrophic YS19 showed nitrogen-fixing activity in N-free medium, and produced four categories of phytohormones which were indole-3-acetic acid, abscisic acid, gibberellic acid and cytokinin in Luria-Bertani medium. Inoculation of YS19 improved the biomass of the 12-day-cultivated host rice seedlings by 63.4% on N-free medium or by 18.7% on N-supplemented medium. Spraying of YS19 cell culture onto the rice plants at the premilk stage enhanced the transportation of the photosynthetic assimilation product from the source (flag leaves) to the sink (stachys) significantly. The formation of the plant sink was obviously inhibited when YS19 cell culture was applied at the late milk stage. This research suggests that endophyte YS19 promotes host rice plant growth and affects allocations of host photosynthates. These findings suggested that YS19 possesses the potential for increasing rice production in field application. Meanwhile, a suitable plant growth stage must be selected for the foliar spraying of YS19 cell culture.
16630016	To develop a diagnostic assay based on polymerase chain reaction for the detection of Magnaporthe grisea from infested rice seeds. Primers were designed based on the nucleotide sequence of the mif 23, an infection-specific gene of M. grisea. The primers amplified target DNA from genetically and geographically diverse isolates of the pathogen. The lowest concentration of template DNA that led to amplification was 20 rhog. No PCR product was detected when DNA from other fungi was used, indicating the specificity of the primers. With this PCR based seed assay, M. grisea was detected in rice seedlots with infestation rates as low as 0.2%. The PCR detection of M. grisea is simple, rapid, specific, sensitive and suitable for the routine detection of the pathogen in infested seeds. Introduction of the blast fungus into new areas where it has not been previously recorded could be avoided by the detection of infested seedlots. A PCR-based seed assay could facilitate risk assessment of naturally infested rice seeds; help design management programs and optimize fungicide use.
16630642	A field experiment has been conducted with four systemic herbicides viz., butachlor [N-(butoxymethyl)-2-chloro-2',6'-diethyl-acetanilide], fluchloralin [N-(2-chloroethyl)-(2,6-dinitro-N-propyl-4-trifluoromethyl) aniline], oxadiazon [5-terbutyl-3-(2,4-dichloro-5-isopro poxyphenyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-one] and oxyfluorfen [2-chloro-1-(3-ethoxy-4-nitrophenyl)-4-(trifluoromethyl) benzene] at their recommended field rates (2.0, 1.5, 0.4 and 0.12kga.i.ha(-1), respectively) to investigate their effects on growth and activities of aerobic non-symbiotic N(2)-fixing bacteria and phosphate solubilizing microorganisms in relation to availability of nitrogen and phosphorus in the rhizosphere soils as well as yield of the rice crop (Oryza sativa L cv. IR-36). Application of herbicides, in general, highly stimulated the population and activities of the target microorganisms, which resulted in a greater amount of atmospheric nitrogen fixation and phosphate solubilization in the rhizosphere soils of the test crop. The greater microbial activities subsequently augmented the mineralization and availability of nitrogen and phosphorus in the soil solution, which in turn increased the yield of the crop. Among the herbicides, oxyfluorfen was most stimulative followed by fluchloralin and oxadiazon in augmenting the microbial activities in soil. Butachlor also accentuated the mineralization and availability of nitrogen due to higher incitement of non-symbiotic N(2)-fixing bacteria in paddy soil. The grain and straw yields of the crop were also significantly increased due to the application of oxyfluorfen (20.2% and 21%) followed by fluchloralin (13.1% and 15.4%) and butachlor (9.1% and 10.2%), respectively.
16632050	To determine the clinical characteristics of 12 patients with Mycobacterium tuberculosis-induced carpal tunnel syndrome. This article also presents our intraoperative findings and surgical treatment results. Twelve patients with tuberculosis-induced carpal tunnel syndrome who had surgery during a 10-year period that began in March 1991 were reviewed. The entrance criterion was a positive histologic report of tuberculosis for surgical specimens. The preoperative evaluation leading to diagnosis was reviewed for all patients. Transection of the transverse carpal ligament and complete synovectomy were performed for all patients. After surgery the patients were given an antituberculosis regimen for 1 year and were followed up for an average of 6 years. Twelve cases from a total of 1,180 patients with carpal tunnel syndrome were traced to M tuberculosis involvement of synovial tissue of the flexor tendons. Ten patients had large rice bodies in thick synovial membranes, and in the other 2 patients thick synovial tissue with yellow exudates were observed during surgery. In contrast to tendon involvement with rupture, no direct median nerve involvement was noted. Histopathologic study results of surgical specimens were positive for tuberculosis in all patients. Eight of 10 initial smears showed acid-fast bacillus and all 10 cultures of the specimens were positive for tubercle bacilli. Surgery and antituberculosis therapy were associated with a desirable outcome and sensory disturbance in the median nerve distribution resolved in all patients. Anterior wrist swelling disappeared and there has been no clinical or laboratory evidence of recurrence in all treated patients. Early diagnosis and surgical treatment combined with antituberculosis medical treatment are important in treating this condition. All patients treated were relieved of symptoms of synovial proliferation at the wrist, with no recurrence of the condition during the follow-up period. Therapeutic, Level IV.
16632592	Recombinant proteins directed to the secretory pathway in plants require a signal peptide for entry into the endoplasmic reticulum. In the absence of further targeting information, such proteins are generally secreted via the default pathway to the apoplast. This has been well documented in protoplasts and leaf tissue, but the trafficking of recombinant proteins in seeds and other storage tissues has rarely been investigated. We used Aspergillus niger phytase as a model glycoprotein to compare the intracellular fate of a recombinant protein in the leaves and seeds of rice (Oryza sativa). Using fluorescence and electron microscopy we showed that the recombinant protein was efficiently secreted from leaf cells as expected. In contrast, within endosperm cells it was retained in endoplasmic reticulum-derived prolamin bodies and protein storage vacuoles. Consistent with our immunolocalization data, the phytase produced in endosperm cells possessed oligomannose and vacuolar-type N-glycans [Man(3)(Xyl)(Fuc)GlcNAc(2)], whereas the phytase produced in leaves contained predominantly secretion-type N-glycans [GlcNAc(2)Man(3)(Xyl)(Fuc)GlcNAc(2)]. The latter could not be detected in preparations of the endosperm-derived phytase. Our results show that the intracellular deposition and modification of a recombinant protein is tissue dependent.
16632598	Alternative splicing (AS) has been extensively studied in mammalian systems but much less in plants. Here we report AS events deduced from EST/cDNA analysis in two model plants: Arabidopsis and rice. In Arabidopsis, 4,707 (21.8%) of the genes with EST/cDNA evidence show 8,264 AS events. Approximately 56% of these events are intron retention (IntronR), and only 8% are exon skipping. In rice, 6,568 (21.2%) of the expressed genes display 14,542 AS events, of which 53.5% are IntronR and 13.8% are exon skipping. The consistent high frequency of IntronR suggests prevalence of splice site recognition by intron definition in plants. Different AS events within a given gene occur, for the most part, independently. In total, 36-43% of the AS events produce transcripts that would be targets of the non-sense-mediated decay pathway, if that pathway were to operate in plants as in humans. Forty percent of Arabidopsis AS genes are alternatively spliced also in rice, with some examples strongly suggesting a role of the AS event as an evolutionary conserved mechanism of posttranscriptional regulation. We created a comprehensive web-interfaced database to compile and visualize the evidence for alternative splicing in plants (Alternative Splicing in Plants, available at www.plantgdb.org/ASIP).
16632792
16633622	The ab initio/Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) approach has been applied to investigate the photodissociation mechanism of the azulene cation at different values of the photon energy. Reaction pathways leading to various decomposition products have been mapped out at the G3(MP2,CC)//B3LYP level and then the RRKM and microcanonical variational transition state theories have been applied to compute rate constants for individual reaction steps. Relative product yields (branching ratios) for the dissociation products have been calculated using the steady-state approach. The results show that a photoexcited azulene cation can readily isomerize to a naphthalene cation. The major dissociation channels are elimination of atomic hydrogen, an H2 molecule, and acetylene. The branching ratio of the H elimination channel decreases with an increase of the photon energy. The branching ratio of the acetylene elimination as well as that of the H2 elimination rise as the photon energy increases. The main C8H6+ fragment at all photon energies considered is a pentalene cation, and its yield decreases slightly with increasing excitation energy, whereas the branching ratios of the other C8H6+ fragments, phenylacetylene and benzocyclobutadiene cations, grow.
16636480	RNase-related proteins (RRPs) are S- and S-like RNase homologs lacking the active site required for RNase activity. Here we describe the cloning and characterization of the rice (Oryza sativa) RRP gene (OsRRP). A single copy of OsRRP occurs in the rice genome. OsRRP contains three introns and an open reading frame encoding 252 amino acids, with the replacement of two histidines involved in the active site of RNase by lysine and tyrosine respectively. OsRRP is preferentially expressed in stems of wild-type rice and is significantly down-regulated in an increased tillering dwarf mutant ext37.
16637012	Uppermost internodes, which connect the part between the ear and lower stem, form an important pathway transporting mineral nutrition from roots and photosynthates from leaves (especially the flag leaf) to the ear. The milky stage is the first stage of seed ripening. The uppermost internodes of rice at the milky stage are critical for seed quality and yield. Total soluble proteins of the uppermost internodes of rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica) at the milky stage were analyzed using proteomic methods. Using 2-DE, 762 reproducible protein spots were detected. Among them, 132 abundant proteins were analyzed using MALDI-TOF-MS. Searching in the National Center for Biotechnology Information database, we could identify 98 proteins, which represent 80 gene products. These proteins belong to 11 functional groups with energy production-associated proteins in the first place. The large accumulation of proteins involved in metabolism, signaling, and stress resistance indicated that the uppermost internodes of rice have a high physiological and stress-resistant activity. In addition, our results will also enrich the database of the rice proteome.
16637180
16637181
16637192	The population structure of Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of the rice blast, was analyzed in Mazandaran province, using DNA fingerprinting based on RAPD-PCR by means of three primers including "I", "D" and "H". Total DNA of 47 isolates was extracted and amplified according to a specific PCR program. As a result, variable length fragments were generated. Each isolate was subjected to DNA fingerprinting and clonal lineages were determined. Phenetic analysis differentiated three distinct fingerprint lineages. In order to study on fertility status and distribution of the mating type idiomorphs (alleles), 72 monoconidial isolates from Mazandaran province were paired with four standard fertile hermaphrodite isolates. The mating type of 36 isolates was determined as Mat 1-1. The others (36 isolates) did not form any perithecia in pairing with standard isolates
16637216	In the world, maize covers about 150 million hectares, following close to rice and wheat. (Balteanu 2000) In Romania, maize culture covers an area of more than 3,500,000 hectares from the overall arable soil, being cultivated in all Romanian districts. Chemical weed control took the greatest extension in the world, at the same time with the synthesis of Atrazine, in 1956, in the laboratories of J.R. Geigy Company, as a super-selective herbicide for the maize culture. This is why many researchers from all continents studied weed control of maize culture, using Atrazine together with other 50 herbicides synthesized until 2004. In the embanked meadow of the Danube, from the 500,000 hectares of arable soil, the maize covers the greatest area. For this reasons, the chemical weed control was granted a great attention by using different herbicides based on Atrazine, Alachlor, Acetochlor, Butilat, Pendimethalin, Dicamba, 2,4-D. At the same time, in the experiments from the Danube Meadow, the authors also studied the efficiency of some combined herbicides: Butizin, Magnific, Guardian Extra is Tazastomp.
16638569	Most multicellular organisms regulate developmental transitions by microRNAs, which are generated by an enzyme, Dicer. Insects and fungi have two Dicer-like genes, and many animals have only one, yet the plant, Arabidopsis, has four. Examining the poplar and rice genomes revealed that they contain five and six Dicer-like genes, respectively. Analysis of these genes suggests that plants require a basic set of four Dicer types which were present before the divergence of mono- and dicotyledonous plants (approximately 200 million years ago), but after the divergence of plants from green algae. A fifth type of Dicer seems to have evolved in monocots.
16638685	The influence of fillers and polymeric films on adhesive strength of hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) and Eudragit E100 films coated on ranitidine HCl tablets containing either spray-dried rice starch (SDRS) or lactose monohydrate as fillers after storage at 45 degrees C/75% RH for four weeks was investigated by the use of butt adhesion technique. The adhesive strength of film-coated tablets of fillers without drug was found to slightly decrease after storage. In contrast, the adhesive strength of drug-containing film-coated tablets significantly reduced, the degree of which was higher for Eudragit E100 than HPMC. Physicochemical characterization by employing differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) revealed that the drug was obviously incompatible with lactose and possibly mild interaction with Eudragit E100 was suggested. The results indicated that the adhesive strength of film-coated tablets would be affected not only by the drug-excipient interaction, but also by the drug-polymeric film interaction.
16639503	Fructokinases (EC 2.7.1.4) may play an important role in carbohydrate metabolism of Oryza sativa L. (rice) seedlings under anoxia. We present here the molecular and biochemical characterizations of two rice fructokinases, namely OsFK1 and OsFK2. The results show that, at both a transcriptional and a transductional level, OsFK1 is preferentially expressed under aerobic conditions, whereas OsFK2 is induced under anoxia. Substrate inhibition was demonstrated for OsFK1, while OsFK2 appears to be largely unaffected by fructose concentrations up to 10 mM. Sugar modulation of anoxia-induced proteins has been proposed, but our results on rice calli treated with or without glucose (10, 30 or 90 mM) for different time indicate that neither OsFK1 nor OsFK2 are sugar-regulated. We propose that OsFK2 plays a major role in fructose phosphorylation under anoxic conditions.
16640352	The hydrogen-loss channel, induced by sequential multiphoton absorption, of the vapor-phase fluorene cation was investigated using a pulsed supersonic molecular beam, a time-of-flight mass spectrometer, and pulsed nanosecond lasers. Our new method leads to the determination of the absolute absorption cross section. Its attenuation with the number of absorbed photons has been approximated by means of statistical models. A model-free determination of the evolution of the dissociation rate constant in a relatively large energy range was obtained by solving the set of coupled differential kinetic equations numerically. Particular attention was focused on the data analysis techniques. The free fit of these rate constants is close to the photothermodissociation statistical model, but shows a discrepancy with the Rice and Ramsperger and Kassel model mainly at high energy. The resulting activation energy is in agreement with both that deduced from the ab initio calculations and that from the tight-binding energy potential surface model.
16640597	Leaf senescence is a unique developmental process that is characterized by massive programmed cell death and nutrient recycling. The underlying molecular regulatory mechanisms are not well understood. Here we report the functional analysis of AtNAP, a gene encoding a NAC family transcription factor. Expression of this gene is closely associated with the senescence process of Arabidopsis rosette leaves. Leaf senescence in two T-DNA insertion lines of this gene is significantly delayed. The T-DNA knockout plants are otherwise normal. The mutant phenotype can be restored to wild-type by the intact AtNAP, as well as by its homologs in rice and kidney bean plants that are also upregulated during leaf senescence. Furthermore, inducible overexpression of AtNAP causes precocious senescence. These data strongly suggest that AtNAP and its homologs play an important role in leaf senescence in Arabidopsis and possibly in other plant species.
16640604	The SNF2-like chromatin-remodeling ATPase SPLAYED (SYD) was identified as a co-activator of floral homeotic gene expression in Arabidopsis. SYD is also required for meristem maintenance and regulates flowering under a non-inductive photoperiod. SNF2 ATPases are structurally and functionally conserved from yeast to humans. In addition to the conserved protein features, SYD has a large unique C-terminal domain. We show here that SYD is present as two forms in the nucleus, full-length and truncated, with the latter apparently lacking the C-terminal domain. The ratio of the two forms of endogenous SYD differs in juvenile and in adult tissues. Furthermore, an SYD variant lacking the C-terminal domain (SYDDeltaC) rescues the syd null mutant, indicating that the N-terminal ATPase AT-hook-containing region of SYD is sufficient for biological activity. Plants expressing SYDDeltaC show molecular and morphological phenotypes opposite to those of the null mutant, suggesting that the construct results in increased activity. This increased activity is at least in part due to elevated SYD protein levels in these lines. We propose that the C-terminal domain may control SYD accumulation and/or specific activity in the context of the full-length protein. The presence of the C-terminal domain in rice SYD suggests that its role is probably conserved in the two classes of flowering plants.
16643065	Botcinins E and F were isolated together with the known botcinolide. The structures of botcinins E and F were determined to be 3-O-deacetylbotcinin A (5) and 3-O-deacetyl-2-epi-botcinin A (6), respectively, by spectroscopic methods and chemical conversion. The structure of botcinolide was revised on the basis of spectroscopic data and chemical conversion. Botcinolide was originally reported as a nine-membered lactone (7), but the revised structure is the seco acid of botcinin E (13). Thus botcinolide is renamed botcinic acid, and homobotcinolide is renamed botcineric acid. Reinvestigation of the spectroscopic data reported for all botcinolide analogues indicates that 4-O-methylbotcinolide and 3-O-acetyl-2-epibotcinolide are the same as a methyl ester of botcinic acid (13a) and botcinin A (1), respectively, and that 2-epibotcinolide may be the same as botcinin E (5). Compounds 5, 6, and 13 showed weak antifungal activity against Magnaporthe grisea, a pathogen of rice blast disease.
16644142	Understanding the correlation between synonymous substitution rate and GC content is essential to decipher the gene evolution. However, it has been controversial on their relationship. We analyzed the GC content and synonymous substitution rate in 1092 paralogues produced by two large-scale duplication events in the rice genome. According to the GC content at the third codon sites (GC3), the paralogues were classified into GC3-rich and GC3-poor genes. By referring to their outgroup sequences, we inferred the last common ancestor of sister paralogues and, consequently, calculated the average synonymous substitution rate for two gene classes. The results suggest that average synonymous substitution rate is lower in GC3-rich genes than that in GC3-poor genes, indicating that the synonymous substitution rate is negatively correlated with GC content in the rice genome. Through characterizing the synonymous nucleotide substitution pattern, we found a strong synonymous nucleotide substitution frequency bias from AT to GC in GC3-rich genes. This indicates possible limitations of commonly used methods developed to estimate the synonymous substitution rate. Their estimates might produce misleading results on correlation between the synonymous substitution rate and GC content.
16644893	Soil waterlogging impedes gas exchange with the atmosphere, resulting in low P(O2) and often high P(CO2). Conditions conducive to development of high P(CO2) (5-70 kPa) during soil waterlogging and flooding are discussed. The scant information on responses of roots to high P(CO2) in terms of growth and metabolism is reviewed. P(CO2) at 15-70 kPa has been reported for flooded paddy-field soils; however, even 15 kPa P(CO2) may not always be reached, e.g. when soil pH is above 7. Increases of P(CO2) in soils following waterlogging will develop much more slowly than decreases in P(O2); in soil from rice paddies in pots without plants, maxima in P(CO2) were reached after 2-3 weeks. There are no reliable data on P(CO2) in roots when in waterlogged or flooded soils. In rhizomes and internodes, P(CO2) sometimes reached 10 kPa, inferring even higher partial pressures in the roots, as a CO2 diffusion gradient will exist from the roots to the rhizomes and shoots. Preliminary modelling predicts that when P(CO2) is higher in a soil than in roots, P(CO2) in the roots would remain well below the P(CO2) in the soil, particularly when there is ventilation via a well-developed gas-space continuum from the roots to the atmosphere. The few available results on the effects of P(CO2) at > 5 kPa on growth have nearly all involved sudden increases to 10-100 kPa P(CO2); consequently, the results cannot be extrapolated with certainty to the much more gradual increases of P(CO2) in waterlogged soils. Nevertheless, rice in an anaerobic nutrient solution was tolerant to 50 kPa CO2 being suddenly imposed. By contrast, P(CO2) at 25 kPa retarded germination of some maize genotypes by 50%. With regard to metabolism, assuming that the usual pH of the cytoplasm of 7.5 was maintained, every increase of 10 kPa CO2 would result in an increase of 75-90 mM HCO3(-) in the cytoplasm. pH maintenance would depend on the biochemical and biophysical pH stats (i.e. regulatory systems). Furthermore, there are indications that metabolism is adversely affected when HCO3(-) in the cytoplasm rises above 50 mM, or even lower; succinic dehydrogenase and cytochrome oxidase are inhibited by HCO3(-) as low as 10 mM. Such effects could be mitigated by a decrease in the set point for the pH of the cytoplasm, thus lowering levels of HCO3(-) at the prevailing P(CO2) in the roots. Measurements are needed on P(CO2) in a range of soil types and in roots of diverse species, during waterlogging and flooding. Species well adapted to high P(CO2) in the root zone, such as rice and other wetland plants, thrive even when P(CO2) is well over 10 kPa; mechanisms of adaptation, or acclimatization, by these species need exploration.
16645096	Rice blast is caused by the fungus Magnaporthe grisea, which elaborates specialized infection cells called appressoria to penetrate the tough outer cuticle of the rice plant Oryza sativa. We found that the formation of an appressorium required, sequentially, the completion of mitosis, nuclear migration, and death of the conidium (fungal spore) from which the infection originated. Genetic intervention during mitosis prevented both appressorium development and conidium death. Impairment of autophagy, by the targeted mutation of the MgATG8 gene, arrested conidial cell death but rendered the fungus nonpathogenic. Thus, the initiation of rice blast requires autophagic cell death of the conidium.
16645581	During July 9--14, 2004, an outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred among workers at an electronics factory in Huizhou, Guangdong Province, China; 199 cases were reported. A case-control investigation was initiated to identify the agent and the mode of transmission. Stool samples were collected from 142 workers and food handlers and cultured for enteric pathogens. A questionnaire concerning meals and foods eaten in the factory cafeteria during July 11--13 was administered to 92 ill workers and 100 controls. Of approximately 2,000 workers who worked during the outbreak, 197 (10%) had illness consistent with the case definition. Salmonella enteritidis was identified from 44 (31%) of 142 stool samples collected from ill workers. Ill workers were more likely than controls to have eaten breakfast in the factory cafeteria during July 11--13. Of eight foods served at breakfast in the factory cafeteria, three were associated with illness: cake, bread (on July 12 only), and congee (i.e., rice porridge). Stratification of bread and congee exposure by cake consumption indicated that only bread eaten on July 12 was associated with gastroenteritis. The cake was baked on July 11, and a mixture that included raw eggs was poured on top; the cake was then stored at room temperature and served for breakfast on 3 consecutive days (July 11--13). The bread was stored together with the cake on July 11 and 12. No leftover food was tested. The investigation indicated that an outbreak of S. enterica serotype Enteritidis resulted from consumption of an unusual food vehicle (i.e., cake) that had been contaminated from a more typical source (i.e., raw eggs). The bread was stored at room temperature together with cake on which a mixture made from raw eggs had been poured. The bread was probably contaminated by contact with the cake. Food handlers should be instructed that intact fresh eggs can harbor S. enteritidis, foods made from eggs must be cooked, and prepared food must be stored under refrigeration.
16646317	The taxonomy and ecology of wild-caught Anopheles marajoara mosquitoes derived from rice fields in Frederick Settlement, Trinidad, were studied in the laboratory using specimens identified with species-specific random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) profiles and recently developed rDNA ITS2 polymerase chain reaction methods. Adults were collected using Shannon traps and human bait in 2 houses over a 1-year period. All mosquitoes collected were taken to the laboratory, where they were identified, wing-length measured, and parity rates determined using standard methods. In addition, 25 females were blood fed and subsequently offered a blood meal every 2 h for a 60-h period. Based on the morphological keys and molecular tools used, the presence of An. marajoara is confirmed in Trinidad for the first time. Analysis of the seasonal distribution of An. marajoara revealed that over 58% were collected during the rainy season. The wing length of 660 females measured averaged 2.90 +/- 0.130 mm, with no significant differences being observed among the parous and nulliparous females' wing sizes (2.90 and 2.92 mm, respectively). In addition, the monthly parous rate was not significantly correlated with mean wing-length over time (r = 0.157, df = 16, P > 0.07). Results from the blood feeding studies showed 85% of females blood fed immediately (hour 0) after capture in the field. However, blood feeding declined thereafter until 24 h later, when over 40% refed. This study clearly identified the presence of An. marajoara in Trinidad and provides information of the seasonal abundance and blood-feeding behaviors. These results suggest that this species can play a significant role in the transmission of malaria within its geographical range in the Neotropics.
16646436
16647265	We investigated the reason for carbohydrate retention in the stem of rice (Oryza sativa L.) at full-ripe stage in a near-isogenic line (NIL63) carrying prl5, which confers lodging resistance without yield loss. NIL63 showed higher lodging resistance than Nipponbare (control) without reduced yield. At heading, the carbohydrate content in the NIL63 stem (culm and leaf sheathes) was the same as in Nipponbare. At 2 weeks after heading, the carbohydrate content in NIL63 was significantly higher than in Nipponbare. At 4 weeks after heading, the carbohydrate content in NIL63 had decreased to near the level in Nipponbare. At 6 weeks after heading, NIL63 showed higher carbohydrate reaccumulation. Chlorophyll degradation in the leaf blades of NIL63 was slower, and the chlorophyll content at 6 weeks after heading was higher than in Nipponbare. These results suggest that the delay in leaf senescence by prl5 results in carbohydrate reaccumulation in the stem after grain filling, increasing lodging resistance.
16648463	Disease resistance and sexual reproductive development are generally considered as separate biological processes, regulated by different sets of genes. Here we show that xa13, a recessive allele conferring disease resistance against bacterial blight, one of the most devastating rice diseases worldwide, plays a key role in both disease resistance and pollen development. The dominant allele, Xa13, is required for both bacterial growth and pollen development. Promoter mutations in Xa13 cause down-regulation of expression during host-pathogen interaction, resulting in the fully recessive xa13 that confers race-specific resistance. The recessive xa13 allele represents a new type of plant disease resistance.
16648613	Increased intake of dietary fiber reduces the risk of obesity and type 2 diabetes. We assessed the effects of a fiber-rich diet on body weight, adipokine concentrations, and the metabolism of glucose and lipids in non-obese and obese subjects in Korea, where rice is the main source of dietary carbohydrates. Eleven healthy, non-obese and 10 obese subjects completed two 4-week phases of individual isoenergetic food intake. During the control diet phase, subjects consumed standard rice; during the modified diet phase, subjects consumed equal proportions of fiber-rich Goami No. 2 rice and standard rice. We used a randomized, controlled, crossover study design with a washout period of 6 weeks between the two phases. After the modified diet phase, body weight was significantly lower in both the non-obese and obese subjects (non-obese, 57.0 +/- 2.9 vs. 56.1 +/- 2.8 kg, p = 0.001; obese, 67.7 +/- 2.1 vs. 65.7 +/- 2.0 kg, p < 0.001 for before vs. after). The BMI was significantly lower in obese subjects (26.9 +/- 0.5 vs. 26.0 +/- 0.6 kg/m2, p < 0.001). The modified diet was associated with lower serum triacylglycerol (p < 0.01), total cholesterol (p < 0.01), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (p < 0.05), and C-peptide (p < 0.05) concentrations in the obese subjects. These results indicate that fiber-rich Goami No. 2 rice has beneficial effects and may be therapeutically useful for obese subjects.
16649102	Development of crop varieties with high nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is imperative for sustainable agriculture. Understanding how plant genes respond to low N stress is essential for formulating approaches to manipulating genes for improving NUE. In this study we analyzed the expression profiles of an indica rice cultivar Minghui 63 at seedling stage at 20 min, 1 and 2 h after low N stress with the normal N as the control, using a microarray of 11,494 rice ESTs representing 10,422 unique genes. While no significant difference was detected in the leaf tissue, a total of 471 ESTs were detected as responsive to low N stress in the root tissue with 115 ESTs showing up-regulation and 358 ESTs showing down-regulation. The analysis of expression profiles after low N stress identified following patterns: (1) the genes involved in photosynthesis and energy metabolism were down-regulated rapidly; (2) many of the genes involved in early responses to biotic and abiotic stresses were up-regulated while many other stress responsive genes were down-regulated; (3) regulatory genes including transcription factors and ones involved in signal transduction were both up- and down-regulated; and (4) the genes known to be involved in N uptake and assimilation showed little response to the low N stress. The challenges for future studies are to characterize the functional roles of the low N stress responsive genes in N metabolisms, including the large number of genes presently with unknown functions.
16649109	In Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, two types of PI 4-kinase (PI4Ks) have been isolated and functionally characterized. The alpha-type PI4Ks (approximately 220 kDa) contain a PH domain, which is lacking in beta-type PI4Ks (approximately 120 kDa). Beta-type PI4Ks, exemplified by Arabidopsis AtPI4Kbeta and rice OsPI4K2, contain a highly charged repetitive segment designated PPC (Plant PI4K Charged) region, which is an unique domain only found in plant beta-type PI4Ks at present. The PPC region has a length of approximately 300 amino acids and harboring 11 (AtPI4Kbeta) and 14 (OsPI4K2) repeats, respectively, of a 20-aa motif. Studies employing a modified yeast-based "Sequence of Membrane-Targeting Detection" system demonstrate that the PPC(OsPI4K2) region, as well as the former 8 and latter 6 repetitive motifs within the PPC region, are able to target fusion proteins to the plasma membrane. Further detection on the transiently expressed GFP fusion proteins in onion epidermal cells showed that the PPC(OsPI4K2) region alone, as well as the region containing repetitive motifs 1-8, was able to direct GFP to the plasma membrane, while the regions containing less repetitive motifs, i.e. 6, 4, 2 or single motif(s) led to predominantly intracellular localization. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of PPC-GFP fusion protein further confirms the membrane-targeting capacities of PPC region. In addition, the predominant plasma membrane localization of AtPI4Kbeta was mediated by the PPC region. Recombinant PPC peptide, expressed in E. coli, strongly binds phosphatidic acid, PI and PI4P, but not phosphatidylcholine, PI5P, or PI(4,5)P2 in vitro, providing insights into potential mechanisms for regulating sub-cellular localization and lipid binding for the plant beta-type PI4Ks.
16650004	The major cationic peroxidase in sorghum grain (SPC4) , which is ubiquitously present in all sorghum varieties was purified to apparent homogeneity, and found to be a highly basic protein (pI approximately 11). MS analysis showed that SPC4 consists of two glycoforms with molecular masses of 34,227 and 35,629 Da and it contains a type-b heme. Chemical deglycosylation allowed to estimate sugar contents of 3.0% and 6.7% (w/w) in glycoform I and II, respectively, and a mass of the apoprotein of 33,246 Da. High performance anion exchange chromatography allowed to determine the carbohydrate constituents of the polysaccharide chains. The N-terminal sequence of SPC4 is not blocked by pyroglutamate. MS analysis showed that six peptides, including the N-terminal sequence of SPC4 matched with the predicted tryptic peptides of gene indice TC102191 of sorghum chromosome 1, indicating that TC102191 codes for the N-terminal part of the sequence of SPC4, including a signal peptide of 31 amino acids. The N-terminal fragment of SPC4 (213 amino acids) has a high sequence identity with barley BP1 (85%), rice Prx23 (90%), wheat WSP1 (82%) and maize peroxidase (58%), indicative for a common ancestor. SPC4 is activated by calcium ions. Ca2+ binding increased the protein conformational stability by raising the melting temperature (Tm) from 67 to 82 degrees C. SPC4 catalyzed the oxidation of a wide range of aromatic substrates, being catalytically more efficient with hydroxycinnamates than with tyrosine derivatives. In spite of the conserved active sites, SPC4 differs from BP1 in being active with aromatic compounds above pH 5.
16651767	When used as a dietary supplement to achieve and maintain healthy cholesterol levels,Chinese red yeast rice has significant potential to reduce health care costs and contribute to public health by reducing heart disease risk in individuals with moderate elevations of circulating cholesterol levels. Red yeast rice is typical product in Mingbei area of Fujian province. Nine products from different area were measured, using high-performance chromatography (HPLC) with photodiode array detector (PDA) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS) and the results show that the contents of monacolin K in these products were considerably different, and more than the other product.
16652220	The enzyme beta-glucuronidase (GUS) is well characterized in animals and microbes. However, this enzyme is not well studied in plants and is widely assumed to be absent in them. In this study we document the ubiquitous presence of GUS in the model plants Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Nicotiana tabacum and Zea mays and record its expression pattern. The pH of the assay buffer was found to be critical with pH 4.0 being optimum for detection in all the species. GUS in plants appears to be associated with growth. In general, younger regions of the organs showed more GUS activity than the older and more mature tissues. In Brassica juncea roots stained for GUS, intense blue color could be seen in the trichoblast cells and the growing root hair cells as compared to the non-root hair forming epidermal cells or the fully elongated root hairs. Cotton fibers showed high GUS activity during the initial phase of elongation while the seed coat, from which the fibers formed, did not stain for GUS activity. The activity in the fibers disappeared after they were fully elongated. The level of GUS activity increased 2.58 folds in leaf tissues of N. tabacum when cultured in MS medium supplemented with 6-benzylaminopurine, while gibberellic acid enhanced GUS activity 2.9 folds in the inter-nodal regions of rice in 12-h treatment. In addition, elongation of stem, root and root hairs in tobacco seedlings was strongly inhibited by the specific inhibitor of GUS, saccharo-1-4-lactone in a reversible manner. Taken together, these evidences suggest a probable association of plant GUS in cell growth.
16652953	Effects of ethylene on free polyamine biosynthesis in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Taichung Native 1) coleoptiles were investigated in sealed and aerobic conditions. In sealed conditions, putrescine increased significantly and coincided with ethylene accumulation. Application of ethylene in sealed containers promoted putrescine accumulation over that in sealed controls. This ethylene-enhanced putrescine accumulation was inhibited by the ethylene action inhibitor 2,5-norbornadiene at 4000 muL/L. In aerobic conditions, ethylene and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid also induced putrescine accumulation. Activity of arginine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.19) and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.50) increased on exposure to ethylene in aerobic conditions. Ornithine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.17) activity, however, remained unchanged. The ethylene-induced putrescine accumulation was inhibited by 5 x 10(-4)m alpha-difluromethylarginine, but not by 5 x 10(-4)m alpha-difluromethylornithine. Apparently, arginine decarboxylase, not ornithine decarboxylase, mediates the ethylene-induced putrescine accumulation. The increased S-adenosylmethioinine decarboxylase activity, however, did not result in a significant spermidine/spermine accumulation. In ethylene-treated coleoptiles, the accumulation of putrescine paralleled the increase of coleoptile length in both sealed and aerobic conditions. alpha-difluromethylarginine inhibited ethylene induced putrescine accumulation and coleoptile elongation. It seems that putrescine biosynthesis might be involved in the ethylene-induced elongation of rice coleoptiles.
16653038	The effect of different types of plant growth retardants on fungal gibberellin (GA) formation has been studied in cultures of Gibberella fujikuroi and Sphaceloma manihoticola. Quaternary ammonium compounds (chlormequat chloride, mepiquat chloride, Amo-1618), triazoles (uniconazole and several experimental compounds), and the norbornanodiazetine tetcyclacis inhibited GA biosynthesis in both fungal species. Concentrations between 2 x 10(-4) and 10(-9)m were required for a 50% inhibition of the production of gibberellin A(3) in Gibberella fujikuroi and of giberellin A(4) in Sphaceloma manihoticola. The formation of other prominent GAs was affected at a similar degree of intensity. Tetcyclacis was the most active compound in both fungi. Compared to the growth retardants mentioned above, the biological activity of chlorphonium chloride was low. The acylcyclohexanediones prohexadione and LAB 198 999 had virtually no activity. Most likely, this lack of activity is due to a rapid metabolism of the compounds in the cultures. For the triazole-type compounds and tetcyclacis, a relatively distinct correlation exists in their ability to inhibit GA formation in fungal cultures, to block ent-kaurene oxygenase in a cell-free system, and to reduce shoot growth of rice seedlings. Due to differences in their metabolic fate and species specificities, such conclusions cannot be made for the other compounds.
16653044	A mutant acetolactate synthase (ALS) gene, csr1-1, isolated from sulfonylurea herbicide-resistant Arabidopsis thaliana, was placed under control of a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (35S). Rice protoplasts were transformed with the 35S/ALS chimeric gene and regenerated into fertile transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) plants. The 35S/ALS gene was expressed effectively as demonstrated by northern blot hybridization analysis, and conferred to transformed calli at least 200-fold greater chlorsulfuron resistance than nontransformed control calli. Effective selection of 35S/ALS-transformed protoplasts was achieved at extremely low chlorsulfuron concentrations of 10 nm. The results demonstrated that the 35S/ALS gene is an alternative selectable marker for rice protoplast transformation and fertile transgenic rice production. The results also suggest that the mutant form of Arabidopsis ALS enzyme operates normally in rice cells. Thus, the mechanism of protein transport to chloroplast and ALS inhibition by chlorsulfuron is apparently conserved among plant species as diverse as Arabidopsis (dicotyledon) and rice (monocotyledon).
16653105	Exposure of dehulled, dormant red rice (Oryza sativa) seeds to dormancy-breaking treatments (10 mm sodium nitrite, 20 mm propionic acid, 30 mm methyl propionate, 40 mm propionaldehyde, or 70 mmn-propanol) induced tissue pH acidification during chemical contact at least 12 h before visible germination. During chemical contact, the onset of embryo acidification occurred before or coincident with the chemical contact interval necessary for subsequent germination. Upon seed transfer to H(2)O following chemical contact, embryo pH also decreased coincident with visible germination. During this period, the percentage of germination and embryo pH were closely linked irrespective of the dormancy-breaking compound used. Therefore, tissue acidification during the breaking of seed dormancy and the germination process may be analogous to similar tissue pH changes associated with the termination of developmental arrest in other multicellular systems, such as brine shrimp cysts and nematode larvae.
16653141	To further explore the function of NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (GOGAT), the tissue distribution of NADH-GOGAT protein and activity was investigated in rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves. The distributions of ferredoxin (Fd)-dependent GOGAT, plastidic glutamine synthetase, and cytosolic glutamine synthetase proteins were also determined in the same tissues. High levels of NADH-GOGAT protein (33.1 mug protein/g fresh weight) and activity were detected in the 10th leaf blade before emergence. The unexpanded, nongreen portion of the 9th leaf blade contained more than 50% of the NADH-GOGAT protein and activity per gram fresh weight when compared with the 10th leaf. The expanding, green portion of the 9th leaf blade outside of the sheath contained a slightly lower abundance of NADH-GOGAT protein than the nongreen portion of the 9th blade on a fresh weight basis. The fully expanded leaf blades at positions lower than the 9th leaf had decreased NADH-GOGAT levels as a function of increasing age, and the oldest, 5th blade contained only 4% of the NADH-GOGAT protein compared with the youngest 10th leaf blade. Fd-GOGAT protein, on the other hand, was the major form of GOGAT in the green tissues, and the highest amount of Fd-GOGAT protein (111 mug protein/g fresh weight) was detected in the 7th leaf blade. In the nongreen 10th leaf blade, the content of Fd-GOGAT protein was approximately 7% of that found in the 7th leaf blade. In addition, the content of NADH-GOGAT protein in the 10th leaf blade was about 4 times higher than that of Fd-GOGAT protein. The content of plastidic glutamine synthetase polypeptide was also the highest in the 7th leaf blade (429 mug/g fresh weight) and lowest in nongreen blades and sheaths. On the other hand, the relative abundance of the cytosolic glutamine synthetase polypeptide was the highest in the oldest leaf blade, decreasing to 10 to 20% of that value in young, nongreen leaves. These results suggest that NADH-GOGAT is important for the synthesis of glutamate from the glutamine that is transported from senescing source tissues through the phloem in the nongreen sink tissues in rice leaves.
16653150	We have constructed a chimeric gene consisting of the promoter, first exon, and first intron of a maize ubiquitin gene (Ubi-1) and the coding sequence of the bar gene from Streptomyces hygroscopicus. This construct was transferred into rice (Oryza sativa L.) protoplasts via electroporation, and 10 plants were regenerated from calli that had been selected for resistance to exogenously supplied bialaphos. Transgenic plants grown in a greenhouse were resistant to both bialaphos and phosphinothricine at a dosage lethal to untransformed control plants. Evidence of stable integration of the transferred gene into the genome of the regenerated primary transformant plants was obtained from Southern blot analysis. In addition, northern blot analysis indicated expression and proper splicing of the maize ubiquitin gene first intron from the primary chimeric transcript in these transgenic rice plants, and western blot analysis and enzymic assays verified expression of the active bar gene product. Apparent mendelian segregation for bialaphos resistance in T(1) progeny of primary transformants was confirmed.
16653172
16653189	Changes in exudation rate and cytokinin activities in the exudates were measured in two varieties of rice (Oryza sativa L.), cv Nipponbare (a Japanese normal cultivar) and cv Akenohoshi (a high-yielding cultivar). The exudation rates of Akenohoshi, the leaves of which remained green for a longer time, were higher than those of Nipponbare after the booting stage. Cytokinin activities in the exudates of Akenohoshi were higher than those of Nipponbare during the ripening period. Cytokinins in the exudates collected during the middle of the ripening stage were analyzed with mass spectrometry using deuterium-labeled standards. trans-Zeatin, trans-ribosylzeatin, and N(6)-isopentenyladenosine were detected as free cytokinins, and zeatin was detected in the hydrolysates of highly polar fractions ("conjugated zeatin") in the exudates of both cultivars. Conjugated zeatin was the predominant cytokinin in both cultivars. Therefore, we suggest that conjugated zeatin is an important form of cytokinin during the ripening stage. The level of each of the cytokinins in Akenohoshi was higher than that in Nipponbare. Also, we discuss the correlation between the leaf senescence and cytokinin content in root exudates.
16653191	The amounts of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco), total chlorophyll (Chl), and total leaf nitrogen were measured in fully expanded, young leaves of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), rice (Oryza sativa L.), spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.), bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), and pea (Pisum sativum L.). In addition, the activities of whole-chain electron transport and carbonic anhydrase were measured. All plants were grown hydroponically at different nitrogen concentrations. Although a greater than proportional increase in Rubisco content relative to leaf nitrogen content and Chl was found with increasing nitrogen supply for rice, spinach, bean, and pea, the ratio of Rubisco to total leaf nitrogen or Chl in wheat was essentially independent of nitrogen treatment. In addition, the ratio of Rubisco to electron transport activities remained constant only in wheat. Nevertheless, gas-exchange analysis showed that the in vivo balance between the capacities of Rubisco and electron transport in wheat, rice, and spinach remained almost constant, irrespective of nitrogen treatment. The in vitro carbonic anhydrase activity in wheat was very low and strongly responsive to increasing nitrogen content. Such a response was not found for the other C(3) plants examined, which had 10- to 30-fold higher carbonic anhydrase activity than wheat at any leaf-nitrogen content. These distinctive responses of carbonic anhydrase activity in wheat were discussed in relation to CO(2)-transfer resistance and the in vivo balance between the capacities of Rubisco and electron transport.
16653388
16653753
16653883
16653902
16654045
16654620
16654622
16655249
16655662
16655929
16656417	The requirements for the transfer of (14)C-phenylalanine from yeast soluble ribonucleic acid to protein in vitro by rice (Oryza sativa L. var. Bluebonnet) ribosomes have been investigated. An absolute requirement for polyuridylic acid, 2-mercaptoethanol, guanosine triphosphate, magnesium, and potassium or ammonium ions and ribosomes has been demonstrated. Ribosomes washed in 0.5% sodium deoxycholate also required the presence of rice supernatant. The optimum concentration of magnesium ion for the reaction was approximately 7 mm, while 60 mm of either ammonium or potassium ion gave maximum transfer of phenylalanine in this heterologous system. The optimum concentration of guanosine triphosphate required varied with the presence or absence of the phosphoenolpyruvate-pyruvate kinase generating system. Without the system, the optimum concentration was 1.5 mm, but in its presence the optimum was approximately 0.1 mm.
16656684	Rice germinates equally well when incubated in air and in nitrogen. It was therefore chosen for a comparative study of the effect of oxygen status in a single organism upon the activity of conventional metabolic poisons. Inhibitor activity was based upon the concentration required for 50% inhibition of germination. The inhibitors were: AgNO(3), HgCl(2), phenylmercuric acetate, iodoacetamide, KCN, NaN(3), NaF, fluoroacetate, 2,4-dinitrophenol, Na(2)HAsO(4) and CO. Only 5 inhibitors out of 11 differed significantly in their effects on aerobic and anaerobic germination. These included phenylmercuric acetate (N(2)), sodium fluoroacetate (air), NaN(3) (air), and 2,4-dinitrophenol (N(2)). CO activity was manifest only in air and it was photo-reversible. The effects of CO, NaN(3), and fluoroacetate were consistent with their conventional role in aerobic metabolism. The failure of KCN to discriminate was attributed to its relative non-specificity. 2,4-Dinitrophenol behaved anomalously, requiring a 20-fold lower concentration for inhibition under nitrogen than under air. Among sulfhydryl poisons, only phenylmercuric acetate differentiated between germination in air and nitrogen and was nearly 8 times more active under nitrogen. Uptake measurements using phenylmercuric acetate and arsenate showed both compounds to be in greater concentration under aerobic conditions, thereby rendering unlikely any explanation based upon greater permeability under nitrogen. In addition to other anomalies, the fact that NaN(3), fluoroacetate and CO inhibited anaerobic germination at any concentration requires explanation. It was concluded that the general significance and utility of metabolic inhibitor studies in vivo required further evaluation.
16656804	3,4-Dichloropropionanilide-(14)C (propanil) labeled in either the C-1 or C-3 carbon atoms of the propionic acid moiety was applied to the roots of pea (Pisum sativum L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants in nutrient solution (0.1 mm-0.28 mm). Radioactivity was detected throughout the treated plants, but the greatest labeling was found in the roots. None of the products that contained aniline were radioactive, suggesting that the plants split the propionic acid moiety from propanil. The fate of the propionate moiety of propanil was determined by recovery of (14)CO(2) from plants exposed to propanil-(14)C. The time-course of the (14)CO(2) production demonstrated that the intact propionic acid was cleaved from the propanil and subsequently catabolized by the beta-oxidation catabolic sequence. The appearance of radioactivity in the shoots was attributed to the incorporation of products of propionate metabolism. Both the susceptible pea plants and the tolerant rice plants converted a high percentage of the administered propanil-(14)C to (14)CO(2).
16656988	Time-sequence analyses of carbohydrate breakdown in germinating rice seeds shows that a rapid breakdown of starch reserve in endosperm starts after about 4 days of germination. Although the major soluble carbohydrate in the dry seed is sucrose, a marked increase in the production of glucose and maltooligosaccharides accompanies the breakdown of starch. Maltotriose was found to constitute the greatest portion of the oligosaccharides throughout the germination stage. alpha-Amylase activities were found to parallel the pattern of starch breakdown. Assays for phosphorylase activity showed that this enzyme may account for much smaller amounts of starch breakdown per grain, as compared to the amounts hydrolyzed by alpha-amylase. There was a transient decline in the content of sucrose in the initial 4 days of seed germination, followed by the gradual increase in later germination stages. During the entire germination stage, sucrose synthetase activity was not detected in the endosperm, although appreciable enzyme activity was present in the growing shoot tissues as well as in the frozen rice seeds harvested at the mid-milky stage. We propose the predominant formation of glucose from starch reserves in the endosperm by the action of alpha-amylase and accompanying hydrolytic enzyme(s) and that this sugar is eventually mobilized to the growing tissues, shoots or roots.
16657129	In a close parallel to the developmental pattern of alpha-amylase activity, a rapid increase of maltase activity occurred in the endosperm tissue of germinating rice seeds after about 4 days of the seed imbibition. The overall pattern of the 2 hydrolytic enzyme activities strongly suggest that amylolytic breakdown is the major metabolic route of starch utilization in the germinating rice seeds. Results of the chemical analyses of sugar constituents as well as the measurements of sucrose synthetase activity show that the scutellum is the site of sucrose synthesis in the germinating rice seeds. It is thus supported that glucose derived from the reserve starch in endosperm is transported to scutellum, where it is converted to sucrose. Sucrose is further mobilized to the growing tissues, shoots and roots.
16657179	Two distinct heat labile factors (I and II) were found to be required for the in vitro synthesis of polyphenylalanine by rice ribosomes (Oryza sativa var. Bluebonnct) and polyuridylic acid. These factors were present in both the crude supernatant and on crude ribosomes. Factor I was removed from the crude ribosomes by [ill] (0.6%), while factor II was eliminated from deoxycholate washed ribosomes by a 0.5 m KCl wash.Factor I was purified from crude supernatant by calcium phosphate absorption and elution followed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Purified factor I was able to substitute for crude supernatant in supporting polyphenylalanine synthesis with deoxycholate washed ribosomes.The supernatant fraction from a KCl wash of deoxycholate ribosomes was found to contain factor II but no factor I activity. Factor II activity was also present in the calcium elutant fraction prepared from crude supernatant. Both factors I and II were required in order to substitute for crude supernatant in supporting polyphenylalanine synthesis with KCl washed ribosomes.The optimum Mg concentration for polyphenylalanine synthesis with d-oxycholate ribosomes was 4.5 mm with crude supernatant, and 6.5 mm with purified factor I. However, with KCl ribosomes supplemented with factors I and II, the optimum was 8.5 mm.Analytical ultracentrifugation Schlieren patterns indicated that KCl washed ribosomes contained a significant quantity of ribosomal subunits.
16657253	Nitrate reduotase is induced by nitrate in excised embryos and germinating intact seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L.). The enzyme is induced 24 hr after imbibition. The rate of enzyme formation increases with the age of seedlings. There is a lag period of 30 to 40 min between the addition of substrate and the formation of nitrate reductase. Formation of the enzyme is promoted by the presence of ammonium. Chloramphenicol, actinomycin D and cycloheximide effectively inhibit the formation of nitrate reductase.Rice seedlings can assimilate nitrate from the beginning of germination. However, the utilization of nitrate is completely suppressed by the presence of ammonium. As soon as ammonium is depleted from the medium, nitrate utilization is resumed. Ammonium inhibits the first step of nitrate reduction, i.e., NO(-) (3) --> NO(-) (2), but does not inhibit the assimilation of nitrite. This provides an example of feedback inhibition in higher plants.
16657480	The levels of starch, soluble sugars, protein, and enzymes involved in starch metabolism-alpha-amylase, beta-amylase, phosphorylase, Q-enzyme, R-enzyme, and starch synthetase -were assayed in dehulled developing rice grains (Oryzasativa L., variety IR8). Phosphorylase, Q-enzyme, and R-enzyme had peak activities 10 days after flowering, whereas alpha- and beta-amylases had maximal activities 14 days after flowering. Starch synthetase bound to the starch granule increased in activity up to 21 days after flowering. These enzymes (except the starch synthetases) were also detected by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Their activity in grains at the midmilky stage (8-10 days after flowering) was determined in five pairs of lines with low and high amylose content from different crosses. The samples had similar levels of amylases, phosphorylase, R-enzyme, and Q-enzyme. The samples consistently differed in their levels of starch synthetase bound to the starch granule, which was proportional to amylose content. Granule-bound starch synthetase may be responsible for the integrity of amylose in the developing starch granule.
16657524	The formation of amylase isozymes in germinating rice (Oryza sativa) seeds was studied by isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide gel disc electrophoresis. Time sequence comparisons of the amylase zymogram were made between extracts from gibberellic acid-treated embryoless and embryo-attached half-endosperm of rice seeds. In both cases, 4 major and 9 to 10 minor isozyme bands were detectable at the maximal stage of the enzyme induction. However, in the embryo-attached half-seeds, bands started to diminish after the 5th day of incubation, in agreement with the results of time sequence analyses of enzyme activities. Nearly identical patterns of amylase isozyme bands on a polyacrylamide gel disc electrophoresis in combination with isoelectric focusing indicate the intrinsic role of gibberellic acid in the starch breakdown in germinating rice seeds. We tentatively assign the newly synthesized enzymes to be alpha-amylases based on experimental results concerning the lability of the preparation on a prolonged treatment at pH 3.3 and the stability on heat treatment for 15 minutes at 70 C.
16657540	Rice grains (Oryza sativa L.) from three varieties and three pairs of lines with different protein content were collected at 4-day intervals from 4 to 32 days after flowering. The samples were analyzed for protein, free amino nitrogen, ribonucleic acid, protease activity, and ribonuclease activity. In addition, the capacity of the intact grain to incorporate amino acids was determined for the three pairs of lines. The maximal level of free amino nitrogen and the capacity of the developing grain to incorporate amino acids were consistently found to be higher in the samples with the high protein content in the mature grain. The ribonucleic acid content of the grain tended to be higher in the high protein samples.
16657584	Ribosomes from rice embryos (Oryza sativa) were dissociated into ribosomal subunits in vitro by systematic reduction of the Mg(2+) concentration. Ribosomes from imbibed (28 C) embryos were more easily dissociated than those from nonimbibed embryos. This was not observed with ribosomes from either imbibed, nonviable embryos, or from embryos imbibed at 0 C. Ribosomes from embryos which had been imbided and subsequently dehydrated resembled ribosomes from nonimbibed embryos in their resistance to dissociation. The change in the resistance to dissociation was essentially complete after the first 20 minutes of imbibition at 28 C, and accompanied activation in vivo of protein synthesis as determined by amino acid incorporation in vitro. Ribosomes from either imbibed or nonimbibed embryos could be dissociated into subunits by 0.5 m KCl. These subunits were separated by density gradient centrifugation, and, if recombined, were active for polyphenylalanine synthesis in vitro. The individual subunits prepared from nonimbibed embryos could be replaced by the corresponding subunit fraction from imbibed embryos without loss of capacity to support polyphenylalanine synthesis. The change in the ease of dissociation of ribosomes appears to be a physiological process, and its possible relationship to the initiation of protein synthesis during seed germination is discussed.
16657631	The levels of starch and dextrin, free sugars, soluble protein, and enzymes involved in starch metabolism-alpha-amylase, beta-amylase, phosphorylase, Q-enzyme, R-enzyme, and ADP-glucose starch synthetases-were assayed in the leaf sheaths and culm of the rice plant (Oryza sativa L., variety IR8) during growth.Starch accumulation in the leaf sheaths reached a maximum 10 to 11 weeks after transplanting, the time of development of the rice panicle. Maximal concentration of free sugars occurred earlier. Starch and sugars in the leaf sheaths and culm decreased rapidly during grain development.During starch accumulation, the starch granules of the leaf sheaths increased slightly in size and its gelatinization temperature decreased. The molecular size of amylose and amylopectin and amylose content of the starch were similar in both culm and leaf sheaths.Changes in the level of soluble protein paralleled changes in starch level in the leaf sheaths. Among the enzymes, only synthetase bound to the starch granule paralleled the level of starch in the leaf sheaths and in the culm. ADP-glucose, but not UDP-glucose, was utilized as a glucosyl donor by these starch synthetases. Zymograms of these extracts showed only one alpha-amylase band, one beta-amylase band, two phosphorylase bands, and one Q-enzyme band.
16657772	Excised apical segments of etiolated rice (Oryza sativa L.) coleoptiles produced ethylene. Increasing the number of cut sites per coleoptile increased the rate of ethylene formation. Ethylene produced by an etiolated-intact seedling in the dark was about a half of that by the excised coleoptile segment. Red light of low energy as well as of continuous irradiation inhibited the production of ethylene. The inhibition by a low energy dose of red light was partly relieved, if the red light was followed immediately by a small dose of far red light. The effect of red and far red light was repeatedly reversible, indicating that ethylene production was regulated by a phytochrome system. If the exposure to far red light was preceded by a period of darkness, this photoreversibility disappeared; 50% of the initial reversibility was lost within 5 hours. Applied ethylene (10 microliters per liter) significantly promoted the growth of intact coleoptiles of either totally etiolated or red light-treated seedlings, but had no effect on the excised apical segment of coleoptile.
16657881	Pot cultures of rice (Oryza sativa L., var. Colusa) in flooded soil were used to measure comparative uniformity of growth where mutual shading was the primary source of variation. Data were analyzed according to various divisions of each layout into blocks, sections, and replicate pots to compare statistical efficiencies.Experiments on stationary benches were subject to large border effects that were not suitably compensated for by any of the systems of replication tested. On the turntable, which carried 24 pots in single file, all plans of analysis tested were acceptable and resulted in coefficients of variability ranging from 2.5 to 4.5%.Consideration of these results, along with the cost of increased replication and the fact that use of a turntable minimizes the effects of environmental variability inherent in greenhouses, leads to the conclusion that the turntable provides more efficient use of greenhouse space for precision experiments than do stationary benches.
16657998	Nitrate simultaneously induced NADH- and NADPH-nitrate reductase activities in rice seedlings. Chloramphenicol, other organic nitro-compounds such as o-nitroaniline and 2,4-dinitrophenol and nitrite also induced nitrate reductase in rice seedlings. The nitrate- or nitrite-induced nitrate reductase could accept electrons more efficiently from NADH than NADPH. However, when this enzyme was induced by organic nitro-compounds, it could accept electrons more efficiently from NADPH than NADH.
16658042	Changes in the content of starch, protein, and RNA and in the activity of their hydrolases in the rice endosperm (Oryza sativa L., variety IR8) were determined during the first week of germination without added nutrient both in the dark and in the light. Changes were generally more rapid in the dark than in the light. Oxygen uptake and RNase activity started to increase and the root protruded on the second day, followed by the coleoptile on the third day, and the primary leaf on the fourth day. ATP level was at a maximum on the fourth day. The activity of amylases and R enzyme increased progressively, but that of phosphorylase tended to decrease during starch degradation. A new alpha amylase isozyme band appeared during germination. Glucose was the major product of starch degradation. Sucrose, maltose, maltotriose, raffinose, and fructose were also detected. Protease activity reached a maximum on the fifth or sixth day and closely paralleled the increase in soluble amino N and soluble protein.In embryoless seed halves with 0.12 muM gibberellin As, peak protease activity occurred in 2.5 days and peak alpha amylase activity on the fifth day of incubation. The production of alpha amylase, protease, and R enzyme was inhibited by 40 muM cycloheximide, but only alpha amylase and R enzyme were inhibited by 20 mug/ml actinomycin D.
16658318	The uptake and accumulation of exogenous indoleacetic acid-(14)C by intact rice coleoptiles were examined. The absorption of exogenous indoleacetic acid was controlled by phytochrome, while the subsequent accumulation of this indoleacetic acid in various portions of the coleoptile was complex, and the effect of red light in this system was small compared to the alteration of the uptake of indoleacetic acid by red light. The absorption of indoleacetic acid exhibited two phases: the first occurring during the first 3-hour portion of the incubation was an inhibition, while the second was a promotive effect at about the 5th hour of incubation. Both of these effects were red, far redreversible, implicating phytochrome in this effect. Neither the destruction nor the immobilization of this exogenous indoleacetic acid apeared to be greatly affected by red light irradiation. The principal interaction between phytochrome and indoleacetic acid appears to occur during the absorption of exogenous indoleacetic acid. This effect may be related to the control by phytochrome of the amount of auxin which diffuses from coleoptile tips.
16658365	Four semi-dwarf rices (Oryza sativa L.) differing in percentage of grain protein, grown in a flooded field receiving basal N fertilization, had a peak activity of root glutamate dehydrogenase 4 weeks after transplanting. A lower peak occurred during panicle formation 10 weeks after transplanting. The percentage of N of the active leaf blades was also highest 4 weeks after transplanting. The activity of nitrate reductase in the leaf blades was low and decreased after transplanting.Among the three rices with similar grain yield, the rice with high percentage of protein tended to translocate more leaf N to the developing grains than the rices with average grain protein content. The leaf blades of the former also had lower rates of leucine incorporation during grain development but higher protease activity than leaves of the rices with average protein content. Developing grains of the rices with high percentage of protein tended to have higher levels of soluble protein, free amino N, and protease, and a faster rate of leucine incorporation than grains of the IR3 rice with average percentage of protein, regardless of grain yield.
16658449
16658481
