16658490	Embryos from rice (Oryza sativa L. var. Bluebonnet) and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) contain an aminoacyl-tRNA protein transferase which transfers arginine from arginyl-tRNA to the N terminus of a protein acceptor. The activity was measured in vitro in a reaction mixture containing embryo supernatant fraction, buffer, sulfhydryl reagent, and arginyl-tRNA. It was not dependent on the usual cofactors for ribosomal protein synthesis, nor was it sensitive to cycloheximide or puromycin. However, the activity was inhibited by ribonuclease. The enzyme was purified 33-fold from a crude homogenate of rice embryos. An apparent endogenous substrate from rice embryos was prepared free of transferase activity; however, the transferase was not purified sufficiently to show absolute dependence on the presence of this endogenous substrate.
16658546	A study was made of the changes in activity of enzymes involved in the breakdown of stored phytin, lipid, and hemicellulose in the aleurone layer of rice seed (Oryza sativa L., variety IR8) during the 1st week of germination in the light. Enzyme assays were made on crude extracts from degermed seed, and activities were expressed on a per seed basis. Phytase activity increased within the 1st day of germination. The increase in activity of most other enzymes-phosphomonoesterase, phosphodiesterase, esterase, lipase, peroxidase, catalase, beta-glucosidase, and alpha- and beta-galactosidase-closely followed the increase in protein content. Their peak activities occurred by the 5th to the 7th day. Some enzymes, such as beta-1, 3-glucanase and alpha-amylase, continued to increase in activity after the 7th day. Phytase, beta-1, 3-glucanase, and alpha-amylase followed a similar sequence of production in embryoless seed halves incubated in 0.12 muM gibberellin A(3), but the production of lipase was delayed.
16658838	Tritium-labeled gibberellin A(9) ((3)H-GA(9)) was metabolized by etiolated shoots of dwarf pea (Pisum sativum cv. Meteor) to GA(20), GA(10), 2,3-dihydro-GA(31), and a number of highly polar, acidic GA-like substances. Identifications were made by gasliquid radiochromatography and combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Kinetic studies showed that GA(30) and 2,3-dihydro-GA(31) were produced within 5 hours following (3)H-GA(9) application to pea shoots. The polar GA-like substances were produced between 5 and 10 hours after (3)H-GA(9) application. Levels of GA(10) increased with time, and since no GA(10) was produced during the purification procedures, GA(10) was, in all probability, produced from (3)H-GA(9) within the plant tissue. The radioactive interconversion products produced by pea from (3)H-GA(9) have chromatographic properties similar to biologically active GA-like substances present in etiolated shoots of dwarf pea. Large scale applications of (3)H-GA(9) with very low specific activity to etiolated pea shoots showed that the radioactivity of the interconversion products was correlated exactly with biological activity as assayed by dwarf rice (Oryza sativa cv. Tan-ginbozu).
16658933	The Fe requirements of four monocotyledonous plant species (Avena sativa L., Triticum aestivum L., Oryza sativa L., Zea mays L.) and of three dicotyledonous species (Lycopersicum esculentum Mill., Cucumis sativus L., Glycine maxima (L.) Merr.) in hydroponic cultures were ascertained. Fe was given as NaFe-EDDHA chelate (Fe ethylenediamine di (O-hydroxyphenylacetate). I found that the monocotyledonous species required a substantially higher Fe concentration in the nutrient solution in order to attain optimum growth than did the dicotyledonous species. Analyses showed that the process of iron uptake was less efficient with the monocotyledonous species. When the results obtained by using chelated Fe were compared with those using ionic Fe, it was shown that the inefficient species were equally inefficient in utilizing Fe(3+) ions. However, the differences between the efficient and the inefficient species disappeared when Fe(2+) was used. This confirms the work of others who postulated that Fe(3+) is reduced before uptake of chelated iron by the root. In addition, it was shown that reduction also takes place when Fe is used in ionic form. The efficiency of Fe uptake seems to depend on the efficiency of the root system of the particular plant species in reducing Fe(3+). The removal of Fe from the chelate complex after reduction to Fe(2+) seems to present no difficulties to the various plant species.
16659348	The levels of reducing and nonreducing sugars, starch, soluble protein, and selected enzymes involved in the metabolism of sucrose, glucose-1-P, and glucose nucleotides were assayed in dehulled developing rice grains (Oryza sativa L. line IR1541-76-3) during the first 3 weeks after flowering. The level of reducing sugars in the grain was highest 5 to 6 days after flowering. The level of nonreducing sugars and the rate of starch accumulation were maximum 11 to 12 days after flowering, when the level of soluble protein was also the highest. The activities of bound and free invertase, sucrose-UDP and sucrose-ADP glucosyltransferases, hexokinase, phosphoglucomutase, nucleoside diphosphokinase, and UDP-glucose and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylases were high throughout starch deposition, and were maximum, except for nucleoside diphosphokinase which did not increase in activity, between 8 and 18 days after flowering. Soluble primed phosphorylase and ADP glucose-alpha-glucosyltransferase (starch synthetase) were both present during starch accumulation. Phosphorylase activity was at least 2-fold that of soluble starch synthetase but the synthetase followed more closely the rate of starch accumulation in the grain. The activity of starch synthetase bound to the starch granule also increased progressively with increased starch content of the grain.
16659395	myo-Inositol 1-phosphate synthase (EC 5.5.1.4) is the enzyme which catalyzes the synthesis of the precursor for the myo-inositol oxidation pathway. Rice callus grown in suspension culture provides a good source of plant enzyme. Use has been made of a noncompetitive inhibitor to prepare an affinity column for this enzyme. With this column, the enzyme from rice callus has been purified 1500-fold in a single step, about 9000-fold over-all, to a specific activity of 0.078 units per milligram of protein. This is an order of magnitude greater than previous purifications of the plant enzyme.
16659474	The activities of catalase, peroxidase, and polyphenoloxidase were studied in attached and detached rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Ratna) leaves. Catalase activity decreased while peroxidase and polyphenoloxidase activities increased during senescence of both attached and detached rice leaves. Kinetic (5 mum) and benzimidazole (1 mm), which are known to delay the senescence of detached rice leaves, retarded the decrease of catalase activity during detached leaf senescence. On the other hand, these chemicals accelerated the increase of peroxidase and polyphenoloxidase activities over the water control. Total phenolics accumulated in detached and darkened rice leaves, but in attached leaf senescence in light no accumulation of phenolics was observed.
16659542	The effect of the two substituted pyrimidines, ancymidol (a growth retardant) and triarimol (a fungicide) on Phaseolus vulgaris was studied. Both compounds retarded shoot and root elongation as well as increases in fresh weight. Both compounds caused production of ethylene-like responses when given in high dosages or when applied shortly after germination. As growth retardation was shown to occur in the absence of net increase in sterol levels, neither ancymidol nor triarimol apparently retards growth by inhibiting sterol synthesis.Both ancymidol and triarimol treatment drastically reduced the amount of extractable gibberellin-like activity in beans. Ancymidol also either induced or enhanced the production of a compound which gave a negative response in the bioassay plant Oryza sativa var. Tan-ginbozu. The addition of gibberellin completely relieved the dwarfing effects of both ancymidol and triarimol in dark-grown beans. It is concluded that ancymidol and triarimol affect a gibberellin-induced growth response, probably by inhibiting gibberellin biosynthesis.
16659600	The effects of nitrogen source NO(3) (-) or NH(4) (+) on nitrogen metabolism during the first 2 weeks of germination of the rice seedling (Oryza sativa L., var. IR22) grown in nutrient solution containing 40 mug/ml N were studied. Total, soluble protein, and free amino N levels were higher in the NH(4) (+)-grown seedling, particularly during the 1st week of germination. Asparagine accounted for most of the difference in free amino acid level, in both the root and the shoot. Nitrate and nitrite reductase activities were present mainly in the shoot and were higher in the NO(3) (-)-grown seedling, whereas the activity of glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamine synthetase in the root tended to be lower than that of the NH(4) (+)-grown seedling during the 1st week of germination. Glycolate oxidase and catalase activities were present mainly in the shoot. Maximum activity of the above five enzymes occurred 7 to 10 days after germination. Differences in the zymograms of nitrate reductase, glutamate dehydrogenase, and catalase were mainly between shoot and root and not from N source. Nitrite reductase bands were observed only in plants grown in plants grown in NO(3) (-).Ten-day-old seedlings of three rices differing in level of grain protein did not differ in the level of N fractions and of enzyme activities, which were consistent with their differences in grain protein content.
16659665	By use of affinity chromatography on blue dextran-Sepharose, two nitrate reductases from rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings, specifically, NADH:nitrate oxidoreductase (EC 1.6.6.1) and NAD(P)-H:nitrate oxidoreductase (EC 1.6.6.2), have been partially separated. Nitrate-induced seedlings contained more NADH-nitrate reductase than NAD(P)H-nitrate reductase, whereas chloramphenicol-induced seedlings contained primarily NAD(P)H-nitrate reductase. NAD(P)H-nitrate reductase was shown to utilize NADPH directly as reductant. This enzyme has a preference for NADPH, but reacts about half as well with NADH.
16659802	Some properties of 3-P-glycerate phosphatase from developing caryopsis of rice (Oryza sativa L., variety IR26) were studied. The enzyme was found to be soluble and not bound to starch, and concentrated mainly in the pericarp-aleurone layer; its maximum activity was at 12 to 14 days after flowering. Contents of 3-P-glycerate and chlorophyll were highest in the grain at 7 to 8 days after flowering when starch synthesis was at a maximum. The enzyme was purified about 100-fold by precipitation with 50 to 80% ammonium sulfate, followed by chromatography through Sephadex G-200 and CM-Sephadex C-50. The pH optimum was from 5.7 to 6 and no cation was required for activity. The purified preparation had an apparent Km of 2.85 mm and was inhibited by Cu(2+), Hg(2+), Zn(2+), Fe(3+), molybdate, and F(-). The enzyme also exhibited high activity toward UTP, ATP, and p-nitrophenyl phosphate; moderate activity toward other phosphates; but no activity toward phytate. A molecular weight of about 23,000 was obtained for the 3-P-glycerate peak during gel filtration on Sephadex G-200, which corresponded to a value of 26,000 for the major protein fraction by thin layer gel filtration on Sephadex G-150. Zymograms of the whole extract and semipurified preparations showed two phosphatase bands with 3-P-glycerate as substrate.
16659864	The changes in sugars (water-soluble carbohydrates) were studied in the developing grain of rice (Oryza sativa L., variety IR28 and IR29) in relation to the role of these sugars as precursors of ADP glucose in starch accumulation. The levels of total sugars, total reducing sugars and free glucose, sucrose and other nonreducing sugars, maltooligosaccharides, and total and nonsucrosyl fructose followed closely the changes in the rate of starch accumulation, in both IR28 and 29; the peak value occurred 9 days after flowering. The level of soluble carbohydrates remained high in the caryopsis and also in milled rice after starch accumulation, suggesting that the supply of sugar precursors does not limit starch accumulation in the rice grain. Because of a higher level of reducing sugars, the level of free sugars in the grain of waxy rice IR29 was higher than that of nonwaxy IR28.
16660061	Seeds of oat, coconut, soybean, sunflower, rice, millet, kidney bean, buckwheat, wheat, and corn and vegetative tissue of oat, pea, and corn were assayed for free indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), esterified IAA, and peptidyl IAA. Three conclusions were drawn: (a) all plant tissues examined contained most of their IAA as derivatives, either esterified or as a peptide; (b) the cereal grains examined contained mainly ester IAA; (c) the legume seeds examined contained mainly peptidyl IAA. Errors in analysis of free and bound IAA are discussed.
16660400	Triacontanol applied to IR-8 rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings in nutrient solution caused an increase in dry weight during a 6-hour dark period. This increase was altered by atmospheric CO(2) and O(2) concentrations. The largest growth response occurred from 200 to 350 muliters/liter CO(2) with 5% O(2). The treated seedlings did not fix atmospheric CO(2) in the dark, and the immediate products of photosynthesis were not involved in the dry weight increase. The growth response was characterized by an increase in soluble and insoluble Kjeldahl-N, and soluble carbohydrates. The response curve for dry weight increase was a linear function of log presentation time of triacontanol. The response exhibited an apparent K(dose) of 25 minutes in 10 mug/liter triacontanol in the dark and 18 minutes in the light. Concentrations of 50 mug/liter and higher inhibited growth.
16660481	The patterns of molybdenum (MoO(4) (2-)) absorption and transport were investigated in intact bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) and rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. I.R.8) plants. The mobility of MoO(4) (2-) absorbed by roots and by leaves was compared with that of a freely mobile element, Rb(+). Although MoO(4) (2-) absorption by bean roots was nearly as high as that of Rb(+), its transport to the shoot was considerably less. When MoO(4) (2-) was fed to one of the primary leaves, most of it was transported to the stem and root. Evidence obtained here showed that MoO(4) (2-) was mobile. Experiments with intact rice seedlings revealed large differences in the absorption and transport of MoO(4) (2-) between the plants grown in CaSO(4) and those in Hoagland solution. Molybdate uptake by excised rice roots was suggested to be an active process since it was greatly inhibited by a metabolic inhibitor. The presence of Mn(2+), Zn(2+), Cu(2+), CI(-), or SO(4) (2-) in the absorption medium reduced MoO(4) (2-) uptake which was markedly enhanced by the presence of Fe(2+).
16660579	The uptake of nitrate and ammonium by rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings was compared under various conditions. Nitrate uptake showed a 1-hour lag phase and then a rapid absorption phase, whereas ammonium uptake showed passive absorption during the first hour, then a shoulder of absorption, followed by a rapid metabolism-dependent absorption phase. Light did not affect the uptake of nitrate or ammonium. The uptake of nitrate and ammonium was markedly suppressed by removal of the endosperm. After removal of the endosperm, the uptake was restored by exogenous supply of 30 mm sucrose. No appreciable nitrate uptake was detected at temperatures below 15 C, whereas appreciable ammonium uptake occurred at 15 C, although lowered passive absorption and complete inhibition of the rapid metabolism-dependent absorption phase were observed at 5 C.Nitrate uptake was decreased by aeration and also by bubbling the mixture with O(2). It was greatly depressed by bubbling the mixture with N(2). These results suggest that there is a low optimal O(2) concentration for nitrate uptake. In contrast, ammonium uptake was increased by aeration, not influenced by bubbling with O(2), and slightly decreased by bubbling the mixture with N(2).Nitrate uptake was almost entirely inhibited by addition of cycloheximide, KCN, or arsenate. These compounds had scarcely any effect on the passive absorption of ammonium, but entirely depressed its successive metabolism-dependent absorption. Ammonium uptake occurred before nitrate uptake in solution containing both nitrate and ammonium.
16660663	A polar gibberellin active in the dwarf rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedling and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) half-seed assays was extracted from immature sour cherry (Prunus cerasus L.) seed and identified as gibberellin A(32) by gas-liquid chromatography and selected ion monitoring.
16660721	Inorganic pyrophosphatase, peroxidase, and polyphenoloxidase activities were studied as the function of leaf insertion level in eight monocotyledonous and eight dicotyledonous species. Alkaline inorganic pyrophosphatase shows a declining activity toward the end of senescence whereas no regular drift in either peroxidase or polyphenoloxidase activities was noticed during senescence of attached leaves. In the primary leaves of rice, peroxidase and polyphenoloxidase activities were high in the senescent leaves and there exists a correlation between chlorophyll content and peroxidase activity though not with polyphenoloxidase activity. Upon detachment leaves exhibit increasing peroxidase and polyphenoloxidase activities with time. The distribution of the enzyme activities during senescence of attached leaves is suggested to be species-specific, and an increase in peroxidase and polyphenoloxidase activities cannot be taken as an indicator of leaf senescence.
16660724	The time sequence analysis of the starch digestion pattern of the thin sectioned germinating rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed specimens using the starch film method showed that at the initial stage amylase activity was almost exclusively localized in the epithelium septum between the scutellum and endosperm. Starch breakdown in the endosperm tissues began afterward; amylase activity in the aleurone layers was detectable only after 2 days. Polyacrylamide gel electrofocusing (pH 4 to 6) revealed nearly the same zymogram patterns between endosperm and scutellum extracts, although additional amylase bands appeared in the endosperm extracts at later germination stages (4 to 6 days). These are presumably attributable to the newly synthesized enzyme molecules in the aleurone cells.
16660732	In vitro binding experiments were carried out using (32)P-labeled cells of the virulent Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain B6 and Datura innoxia cells from suspension culture. Binding kinetics showed that adherence of bacteria to Datura cells increased gradually during the first 60 minutes and attained a maximum level within 120 minutes of incubation. Maximum binding occurred at pH 6.0. The presence of Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) reduced binding slightly and EDTA had little effect at concentrations of 0.1 to 10 millimolar. The binding of bacteria to Datura cells was temperature-dependent. Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhimurium, Rhizobium japonicum, and Micrococcus lysodeikticus did not compete with virulent A. tumefaciens strain B6 for binding to Datura cells. The admixture of avirulent A. tumefaciens strain IIBNV6 enhanced adherence of virulent A. tumefaciens strain B6 to Datura cells. Octopine had no effect on the binding of virulent A. tumefaciens strain B6 to Datura cells, but 10 millimolar canavanine was inhibitory. Arginine enhanced the adherence of the bacteria at concentrations higher than 0.1 millimolar. Incubation with DNase, RNase, and lipase did not affect the binding, but protease stimulated the adherence of bacteria to Datura cells. Concanavaline A and soybean lectin had little effect whereas lecithin and lysolecithin enhanced binding slightly. Poly-l-lysine markedly stimulated the bacteria-plant cell adherence. Cells from suspension cultures of pea, vetch, and soybean had a 2- to 3-fold higher binding capacity than Datura cells, whereas cells from wheat, corn, rice, and sorghum had a considerably lower affinity for binding with virulent A. tumefaciens strain B6. Bacterial adherence to plant cells was confirmed by autoradiography and electron microscopy. Autoradiographic analysis showed that bacteria were associated with the cell wall, and that often binding of bacteria was localized. Electron micrographs clearly illustrated a tight association of virulent A. tumefaciens strain B6 cells to the Datura cell wall.
16660864	The effects of red (R), far red (FR), or blue light (B) on the enhancement of nitrate reductase (NR) activity and on nitrate uptake in etiolated rice seedlings were examined. On 5-minute illumination followed by 12-hour dark, R caused marked increase of NR activity, but FR and B caused only slight increase. Illumination with 560 ergs per square centimeter per second of R for 5 minutes caused maximal increase. The effect of R was almost completely counteracted by subsequent illumination with 2,000 ergs per square centimeter per second of FR for 10 minutes, indicating that NR induction was mediated by phytochrome. Exogenous supply of inducer nitrate was not required during the 5-minute illumination and the R-FR cycles, if the seedlings were transferred to nitrate solution at the beginning of the dark incubation. NR activity in the shoots was found high when shoots were illuminated but was low when only roots were illuminated. On continuous illumination for 12 hours, B had more effect on NR increase than R.Nitrate uptake during 6-hour dark was not increased by exposure to R, FR, or B for 5 minutes at the beginning. On continuous illumination for 6 hours, R slightly increased nitrate uptake, whereas FR and B had no effect.
16660960	Rabbit antiserum against beta-amylase isolated from germinating seeds of rice was produced, and its specific cross-reactivity with beta-amylase was confirmed by means of Ouchterlony double immunodiffusion and immunoelectrophoresis procedures. The cellular localization of beta-amylase was studied by indirect fluorescence microscopy of thin sectioned germinating rice seed specimens (1-day stage) which had been fixed and treated with purified rabbit anti-beta-amylase immunoglobulin G followed by conjugation with fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled goat antirabbit immunoglobulin G. It has been demonstrated that beta-amylase is uniformly associated with the periphery of starch granules in the starchy endosperm cells. The finding is discussed in relation to the general notion concerning the presence of the latent form of beta-amylase bound to protein bodies in cereal seeds.
16661052	In organic solvents, 1,3-dimethyl-4-(2,4-dichlorobenzoyl)-5-hydroxypyrazole (DTP) converted chlorophyll a and b extracted from rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L. ;Kinmaze') into pheophytin a and b, respectively. On comparing the chlorophyll-converting activity of DTP to those of acetic, glycolic, 2,4-dichlorobenzoic, monochloroacetic, 2,6-dichlorobenzoic, pyruvic, and dichloroacetic acids, it was demonstrated that DTP induced H(+) into chlorophyll specifically. 5-Hydroxypyrazoles, which seem to be dissociable, converted chlorophyll into pheophytin in vitro. These compounds also induced chlorosis in sedge seedlings (Cyperus serotinus Rottb.), when the seedlings were grown in media containing these compounds. However, 5-hydroxypyrazoles, which seem to be undissociable, and analogs having no hydroxy group caused neither the chlorophyll conversion in vitro nor chlorosis in the seedlings. Chlorosis in barnyardgrass seedlings (Echinochloa crus-galli Beauv. var. oryzicola Ohwi) induced by DTP was reversed by cultivating the seedlings in media containing DTP plus NaOH, KOH, NH(4)OH, Ca(OH)(2), sodium acetate, sodium pyruvate, sodium succinate, or sodium fumarate. Accumulation of the vinyl pheoporphyrin fraction in 4- day-old etiolated radish cotyledons (Raphanus sativus L. ;Minowase 2') was enhanced by incubating the cotyledons with delta-aminolevulinic acid in the dark. However, simultaneous treatment with delta-aminolevulinic acid and DTP reduced accumulation of the fraction and promoted formation of the uro, copro, and protoporphyrin fractions. These results suggest that DTP blocks the synthesis of protochlorophyllide in intact plants and induces consequent chlorosis, and the H(+) -donating activity of DTP might cause the reduction of protochlorophyllide biosynthesis.
16661130	Nitrate reductase (NR)-inactivating proteins from corn roots (Wf-9 x 38-11) and rice cell suspension cultures were tested against a partially purified NR obtained from corn leaves (W64A x W182E). The corn protein was purified 921-fold and the rice protein, 1,660-fold using standard purification procedures. Approximate molecular weight values were 75,000 for the corn protein, and 150,000 for the rice protein as determined by Sephadex G-100 gel filtration. The Sephadex-treated proteins were characterized by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels. With a running pH of 9.4 the corn protein remained at the origin whereas the rice protein migrated with an R(F) value of 0.49. With a running pH of 4.0 the corn protein migrated with an R(F) value of 0.25. With the corn protein the activities of NR inactivation and hydrolysis of azocasein were detected in the same protein band. The rice protein, however, had no associated protease activity. From sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis, there was one major protein band with an estimated molecular weight of 66,000 in corn protein. In rice protein four bands were observed with estimated molecular weights of 73,000, 66,000, 62,500, and 58,500, respectively.Both inactivators had an inhibitory effect on NADH-NR and NO(3) (-) induced NADH-cytochrome c reductase activities but they had less influence on the activities of FMNH(2)-NR and reduced methylviologen-NR. Inactivation of rice cell NR by rice inactivator was reversed by addition of NADH. Inactivation of corn leaf NR by rice inactivator was inhibited by the simultaneous addition of NADH, but rice inactivator-inactivated corn leaf NR could not be reactivated by NADH.
16661131	When nitrate reductase (NR) purified from Chlorella was incubated with NR-inactivating proteins purified from corn roots and rice cell suspension cultures or with trypsin there was a loss in NADH-NR and NADH cytochrome c reductase (NADH-CR) activities with time whereas the reduced methylviologen NR (MV-NR) remained active. When NADH-NR and NADH-CR activities were inactivated completely by the incubation with corn protein, the major protein band obtained by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis shifted from an R(F) value of 0.12 to an R(F) of 0.25 and reduced MV-NR activity moved to the new position on the gel. When NADH-NR and NADH-CR activities were partially inactivated by the corn protein, NADH-NR activity was detected in an intermediate position (R(F) value of 0.18). Incubation with trypsin also caused a change in the NR protein migration pattern (R(F) value of 0.20). This protein band also had reduced MV-NR activity. Thus, the corn inactivator degrades NR in a fashion similar to but not identical with trypsin. The incubation of NR with rice inactivating protein resulted in a loss of NADH-NR but had no effect on the migration of NR protein or on the reduced MV-NR activity or mobility suggesting that the rice protein binds to Chlorella NR.
16661149	Germinating rice seeds were fed with [(35)S]methionine and the incorporation of (35)S into beta-amylase demonstrated by quantitative immunoprecipitation using rabbit anti-beta-amylase immunoglobulin G fraction. Separation of the antigen-antibody complex by Na-dodecylsulfate gel electrophoresis and subsequent radioautography clearly showed the radioactive labeling of the beta-amylase molecule. The specific radioactivity of beta-amylase derived from scutellum by immunoprecipitation was significantly greater than that of the endosperm. The results strongly indicate that at the onset of germination of rice seeds beta-amylase is synthesized de novo in the scutellum and that in later stages there occurs activation of an inactive, latent form of the enzyme associated with starch granules in the endosperm. In later stages of germination this activated form of the enzyme becomes dominant.
16661186	During grain formation stage (90 to 110 days), the youngest flag leaf of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Jaya) remained metabolically most active (as indicated by cellular constituents and enzyme activities) and the third leaf the least active. At the grain development stage (110 to 120 days) the above pattern of age-related senescence of the flag leaf completely changed and it senesced at a faster rate than the second leaf which remained metabolically active even up to grain maturation time (120 to 130 days), when both the flag and the third leaf partially senesced. Removal of any leaf temporarily arrested senescence of the remaining attached leaves, that of flag leaf did not hasten senescence of the second leaf, while that of either the second or the third accelerated senescence of the flag. Removal of the inflorescence after emergence or foliar treatment of intact plant with kinetin equally delayed senescence and produced an age-related, sequential mode of senescence or leaves. Both translocation and retention of (32)P by the flag leaf were maximum at the time of grain formation and that by the second leaf was maintained even up to grain maturation time. The induction of senescence of the flag leaf was preceded by a plentiful transport of (32)P to the grains. Kinetin treatment decreased the transport of (32)P, prolonged its duration, and almost equally involved all of the leaves in this process. The pattern of senescence of isolated leaf tips was similar to that of attached leaves. The level of endogenous abscisic acid-like substance(s) maintained a close linearity with the senescence behavior of the leaves of intact and defruited plants during aging, and the rise in abscisic acid in the flag leaf was also preceded by higher (32)P transport to the grains.
16661206	Numerous studies have associated increased stomatal resistance with response to water deficit in cereals. However, consideration of change in leaf form seems to have been neglected. The response of adaxial and abaxial stomatal resistance and leaf rolling in rice to decreasing leaf water potential was investigated. Two rice cultivars were subjected to control and water stress treatments in a deep (1-meter) aerobic soil. Concurrent measurements of leaf water potential, stomatal resistance, and degree of leaf rolling were made through a 29-day period after cessation of irrigation. Kinandang Patong, an upland adapted cultivar, maintained higher dawn and midday leaf water potential than IR28, a hybrid selected in irrigated conditions. This was not explained by differences in leaf diffusive resistance or leaf rolling, and is assumed to result from a difference in root system extent.Stomatal resistance increased more on the abaxial than the adaxial leaf surface in both cultivars. This was associated with a change in leaf form or rolling inward of the upper leaf surface. Both responses, increased stomatal resistance and leaf rolling, were initiated in a similar leaf water potential range (-8 to -12 bars). Leaves of IR28 became fully rolled at leaf water potential of about -22 bars; however, total leaf diffusive resistance was only about 4 to 5 seconds per centimeter (conductance 0.25 to 0.2 centimeter per second) at that stage. Leaf diffusive resistance and degree of leaf rolling were linearly related to leaf water potential. Thus, leaf rolling in rice may be used as an estimate of the other two less obvious effects of water deficit.
16661377	Some dynamic aspects of leaf elongation in rice were studied. Under both well watered and water-deficient conditions, leaf elongation rates were 15 to 30% greater during the day than during the night. Night temperatures below 27 C limited the rate of elongation at night but when night temperatures exceeded 27 C, night elongation rates exceeded rates during the day. The diurnal pattern of elongation was opposite to the pattern of bulk leaf turgor which was lower during the day than at night.Superimposed on the general diurnal pattern of leaf elongation were perturbations associated with the light/dark transitions. The rate of leaf elongation declined within minutes after illumination and remained low for 15 to 60 minutes, after which rapid rates ensued. The rate of leaf elongation was transiently accelerated within minutes after transition to dark and then declined to steady night rates after 30 to 60 minutes. Removal or covering of all subtending leaves eliminated these perturbations. Irrigation during the light-induced inhibition period did not influence leaf elongation rates of well watered plants but in stressed plants, high rates of elongation resumed immediately after irrigation.The rate of elongation was accelerated by hydrostatic pressure applied to roots of intact plants. The rate of leaf elongation increased with increasing pressure to about 5 bars and then showed no further increase with increasing pressure. This suggests that the rate of water uptake normally limits the rate of leaf elongation. The response to pressure could be altered by addition of an osmoticum to the root medium and elongation occurred only when the gradient of total water potential between the substrate and elongating leaf allowed water absorption. A model of leaf expansion based on water potential gradients is proposed to explain these observations.
16661406	NADH-nitrate reductase (NR) from the primary leaves and root tips of corn seedlings (var. W64A x W182E) were activated by extracts from corn scutella. The activator extracted in potassium phosphate buffer (pH 7.5) or 80% (v/v) ethanol and fractionated by Dowex 1 (acetate) and Dowex 50 (H(+)) resins was recovered in the cationic fraction. The activator was not detected in extracts from shoots, roots, or endosperm of the seedlings. It activated the nitrate-induced cytochrome c reductase of NR complex but had slight inhibitory effects on the activities of FMNH(2)-NR and reduced methylviologen-NR. In addition the activator inhibited the activities of purified NR-inactivating proteins from corn roots (var. Wf9 x 38-11) and rice cell cultures.
16661490	Chromatographic, kinetic, and regulatory properties of glutamine synthetase in rice were investigated. By DEAE-Sephacel column chromatography, two forms (glutamine synthetase 1 and glutamine synthetase 2) were identified in leaves and one form (glutamine synthetase R) was identified in roots. Purification on hydroxyapatite and gel electrophoresis showed that glutamine synthetase R was distinct from the leaf enzymes. The three isoforms were purified to similar specific activities and their properties were studied. Heat lability, pH optimum about 8, K(m) for l-glutamate of 20 millimolar, and inhibition by glucosamine 6-phosphate were the main characteristics of glutamine synthetase 2. Heat stability, pH optimum about 7.5, K(m) for l-glutamate of 2 millimolar, and no effect of glucosamine 6-phosphate differentiated glutamine synthetase 1 from glutamine synthetase 2. Glutamine synthetase R was also a labile protein but its kinetic and regulatory properties were quite similar to those of glutamine synthetase 1. These results clearly demonstrate the existence of three isoforms of glutamine synthetase in rice, two of which are located in the leaves and the third in the roots.
16661863	Echinochloa crus-galli, a problem weed in rice fields, has the rare ability to germinate and to grow in a totally oxygen-free environment. After 7 days growth in the light or dark under N(2), E. crus-galli var. oryzicola produces a 2- to 3-centimeter nonpigmented shoot.Ethanol, malate, and lactate were measured in seeds germinated under N(2) and air, and compared with changes in the activities of alcohol dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, NADP-malic enzyme, and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. During a 7-day time course, ethanol levels increased 661 micromoles per gram dry weight under N(2), with no increase under air. Alcohol dehydrogenase activity increased 5.5 micromoles per gram dry weight per minute in N(2) compared to 1.0 in air. Corresponding increases for lactate were 7.9 micromoles per gram dry weight under N(2) and 2.7 under air, and for malate, 5.3 micromoles per gram dry weight under N(2) and 0.4 under air.Although 85% of the ethanol produced by the seedlings was found in the external solution under N(2), the seeds still contained 90 times more ethanol under anaerobic conditions than under air. No phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase activity was detected and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase activity was 10 times less under N(2) than air. Malic enzyme activity increased 5-fold under anaerobic conditions, comparable to the change under aerobic conditions. Proposed adaptive mechanisms of flood-tolerant species to anaerobiosis are discussed.
16661887	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants growing in pots of flooded soil were exposed to a (15)N(2)-enriched atmosphere for 3 to 13 days in a gas-tight chamber. The floodwater and soil surface were shaded with a black cloth to reduce the activity of phototrophic N(2)-fixing micro-organisms. The highest (15)N enrichments were consistently observed in the roots, although the total quantity of (15)N incorporated into the soil was much greater. The rate of (15)N incorporation into roots was much higher at the heading than at the tillering stage of growth. Definite enrichments were also found in the basal node and in the lower outer leaf sheath fractions after 3 days of exposure at the heading stage. Thirteen days was the shortest time period in which definite (15)N enrichment was observed in the leaves and panicle. When plants were exposed to (15)N(2) for 13 days just before heading and then allowed to mature in a normal atmosphere, 11.3% of the total (15)N in the system was found in the panicles, 2.3% in the roots, and 80.7% in the subsurface soil. These results provide direct evidence of heterotrophic N(2) fixation associated with rice roots and the flooded soil and demonstrate that part of the newly fixed N is available to the plant.
16661971	Energy charge, adenine nucleotide levels, and protein synthesis were studied during the transfer of rice seedlings from air to anoxia. Within minutes, the energy charge value dropped from 0.90 in air to 0.50 in the seed and 0.60 in the coleoptile after the transfer to a nitrogen atmosphere, and then increased to a value of 0.80 during the subsequent hours. The sum of nucleotides also dropped to 60% of the value in air in the seeds and to 30% in the coleoptiles. However, during the anaerobic growth of coleoptiles, a considerable increase in the nucleotide pool occurred.The incorporation of amino acids into proteins was measured at different stages in anoxic treatment. In rice embryo, we observed a considerable protein synthesis correlated with a high value of energy charge under anoxia. The analysis of labeled proteins by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed a modified pattern of polypeptides synthesized during anoxic treatment. Some of these proteins were intensively labeled and appeared to be induced by anaerobic treatment.Our data indicate that high metabolic activity occurs in rice embryo under anoxia, which can be correlated with a high energy charge value. These phenomena may be part of the mechanisms which permit the adaptation of rice embryos to anaerobiosis.
16661987	The relationship between the rates of nitrogenase, nitrate reductase, and glutamine synthetase activities, and plant ontogeny in rice (Oryza sativa L.), cultivar ;M9', grown in salt marsh sediment with and without nitrate treatment was studied. In both treatments, nitrogenase activity measured as the immediate linear rate of acetylene reduction by bacteria associated with the roots varied with plant age. In control plants, the nitrogenase activity developed during the vegetative stage, peaked during early reproductive growth and then declined. The application of 10 kilograms N per hectare as KNO(3) once every 2 weeks delayed the development of and decreased the nitrogenase activity. The nitrogenase activity in both treatments developed as leaf nitrate reductase activity declined. The per cent nitrogen of roots was negatively correlated with the rates of acetylene reduction during the life cycles of control and nitrate-treated plants. This suggests that the concentration of combined nitrogen in the plants controlled the development and rate of root-associated nitrogenase activity. During reproductive growth, no nitrate reductase activity was detected in the roots from either treatment. In control plants, the patterns of nitrogenase activity and glutamine synthetase activity in the roots were similar. Thus, rice roots have the potential to assimilate ammonia while fixing N(2). During the vegetative and early reproductive stages of growth, the development of maximal rates of nitrogenase activity coincided with an increase of total nitrogen of the plants in both treatments.
16662092	Triacontanol (TRIA) increased fresh and dry weight and total reducible nitrogen (total N) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings within 40 minutes. Increases in total N in the supernatants from homogenates of corn (Zea mays L.) and rice leaves treated with TRIA for one minute before grinding occurred within 30 and 80 minutes, respectively. The source for the increase was investigated utilizing atmospheric substitution and enrichment and depletion studies with (15)N. The increase in total N in seedlings was shown to be independent of method of N analysis and the presence of nitrate in the plants. Automated Kjeldahl determinations showing apparent increases in N composition due to TRIA were shown to be correlated with hand Kjeldahl, elemental analysis, and chemiluminescent analysis in three independent laboratories. TRIA did not alter the nitrate uptake or endogenous levels of nitrate in corn and rice seedlings. Enrichment experiments revealed that the total N increases in rice seedlings, in vivo, and in supernatants of corn leaf homogenates, in vitro, are not due to atmospheric N(2). TRIA increased the soluble N pools of the plants, specifically the free amino acid and soluble protein fractions. No differences in depletion or enrichment of (15)N incorporated into soluble and insoluble N fractions of rice seedlings could be detected on an atom per cent (15)N basis. The apparent short-term total N increases cannot be explained by current knowledge of major N assimilation pathways. TRIA may stimulate a change in the chemical composition of the seedlings, resulting in interference with standard methods of N analysis.
16662099	Scutellar tissues were dissected from germinating rice seeds and the incorporation of [(35)S]methionine into the alpha-amylase molecule was examined by in vivo and in vitro assay systems. Immunoprecipitation with monospecific anti-alpha-amylase immunoglobulin G raised against the purified enzyme preparation and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and fluorography were used to identify alpha-amylase and its possible precursor molecule. Using freshly prepared scutellar tissues, it was demonstrated that alpha-amylase is synthesized de novo in the scutellar epithelium and secreted into endosperm. The synthesis of alpha-amylase directed by the polyadenylic acid-containing ribonucleic acid isolated from the scutellar tissues was also established using the translation system of either wheat germ extract or reticulocyte lysate. The immunoprecipitable product obtained in the in vitro translation system was smaller in molecular weight than that synthesized in vivo on the basis of mobilities in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Results are discussed in relation to the processing of the nascent polypeptide precursor of the enzyme molecule and the introduction of the oligosaccharide chain to the cleaved polypeptide to make up the mature form of alpha-amylase.
16662105	The pattern of senescence was studied by following the changes in chlorophyll and protein in the leaves and by measuring (32)P retention and export from source to sink during development of the rice plant (Oryza sativa L. cv. Jaya) subjected to different manipulative treatments. With the advance of reproductive development, the chronological sequence of leaf senescence was changed, so that the flag and the third leaf senesced earlier than did the second leaf. In presence of the daughter shoot of defruited plants, senescence was delayed in all three leaves of the mother plant, as compared to the same leaves of intact plants. Senescence of all three leaves was further delayed when both panicle and daughter shoots were removed from the plant. The above manipulative treatments caused the initial sequential pattern of senescence of leaves to persist. Removal of both panicle and daughter shoots caused little export of (32)P between leaves. In the presence of daughter shoots of defruited plants, export of (32)P was maximum from leaves of the mother plant to the nearest daughter shoots. This led to earlier senescence of such mother plant leaves than that of plants from which both panicle and daughter shoots were removed. The pattern of senescence and export of (32)P in the flag and the second leaf of the daughter shoot was essentially the same as that of the intact plant. Based on these findings, it was concluded that mobilization of metabolites from source to sink is the primary cause of monocarpic senescence in rice.
16662307	Ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthase (EC 1.4.7.1) from rice leaves (Oryza sativa L. cv Delta) was purified 206-fold with a final specific activity of 35.9 mumoles glutamate formed per min per milligram protein by a procedure including ammonium sulfate fractionation, DEAE-cellulose chromatography, Sephacryl S-300 gel filtration, and ferredoxin-Sepharose affinity chromatography. The purified enzyme yielded a single protein band on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Molecular weight of the native enzyme was estimated to be 224,000 daltons by Sepharose 6B gel filtration. Electrophoresis of the dissociated enzyme in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel gave a single protein band which corresponds to the subunit molecular weight of 115,000 daltons. Thus, it is concluded that the glutamate synthase is composed of two polypeptidic chains exhibiting the same molecular weight. Spectrophotometric analysis indicated that the enzyme is free of iron-sulfide and flavin. The pH optimum was 7.3. The enzyme had a negative cooperativity (Hill number of 0.70) for glutamine, and its K(m) value increased from 270 to 570 mum at a glutamine concentration higher than 800 mum. K(m) values for alpha-ketoglutarate and ferredoxin were 330 and 5.5 mum, respectively. Asparagine and oxaloacetate could not be substituted for glutamine and alpha-ketoglutarate, respectively. Enzyme activity was not detected with pyridine nucleotides as electron donors. Azaserine and several divalent cations were potent inhibitors. The purified enzyme was stabilized by dithiothreitol.
16662363	An intact method for measuring immediately linear rates of acetylene reduction was used to investigate the relationship between temperature, pH, O(2) concentration, and light intensity with the rate of root-associated nitrogenase activity in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Nitrogenase activity varied over a temperature range of 10 to 50 degrees C and optimal rates of acetylene reduction were recorded at 35 degrees C. Nitrogenase activity was also influenced by the pH of the liquid surrounding the roots prior to assay. Maximal rates of acetylene reduction were recorded over a pH range from 5.8 to 7.5. Nitrogenase activity was significantly reduced by concentrations of O(2) 0.5% (v/v) or more when the intact plant assay method was used, and no optimum was detected. However, when the plant tops were removed and the cut ends sealed from the atmosphere for 4 hours, acetylene reduction rates were maximal at 0.25% O(2) (v/v). When plants were moved from sunlight (1,400 microeinsteins per square meter per second) to shade (9.6) root-associated nitrogenase activity at 35 degrees C significantly decreased 15 min later to one-fourth the rate and recovered upon return to sunlight. When the light intensity reaching the leaf canopy was progressively reduced from 1,050 to 54 microeinsteins per square meter per second the rate of root-associated nitrogenase activity decreased from 550 +/- 135 to 192 +/- 55 nanomoles ethylene per gram dry root per hour. The study suggests that the rate of root-associated nitrogenase activity in rice at constant temperature may well be mediated by variations in the concentration of O(2) resulting from changes in the rate of photosynthesis as well as variations in the rate of transport of photosynthate.
16662400	Proline content increased greatly in detached rice (Oryza sativa cv. Taichung Native 1) leaves during senescence. There was a slight but significant increase in proline level after one day of incubation, and, subsequently, proline accumulated relatively rapidly. By 4 days after excision, the level of proline had increased 30- to 50-fold, which is similar to the level seen in the water-stressed detached rice leaves. It is unlikely that the proline accumulation in detached leaves is to be derived solely from protein hydrolysis, since the addition of l-glutamic acid increased the proline level during senescence. The proline analog, 3,4-dehydroproline, did not affect the level of proline during senescence. It seems that accumulation of proline may, at least in part, result from an increased rate of synthesis, possibly due to a disruption of the normal feedback inhibition of proline synthesis. Potassium cyanide and 2,4-dinitrophenol strongly inhibited proline accumulation, indicating that some energy compound(s) may participate in proline accumulation during senescence of excised rice leaves.
16662436	The biosynthetic mechanism of alpha-amylase synthesis in germinating rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Kimmaz) seeds has been studied both in vitro and in vivo. Special attention has been focused on the glycosylation of the enzyme molecule. Tunicamycin was found to inhibit glycosylation of alpha-amylase by 98% without significant inhibition of enzyme secretion. The inhibitory effect exerted by the antibiotic on glycosylation did not significantly alter enzyme activity.In an in vitro system using poly-(A) RNA isolated from rice scutellum and the reticulocyte lysate translation system, a precursor form of alpha-amylase (precursor I) is formed. Inhibition of glycosylation by Tunicamycin allowed detection of a nonglycosylated precursor (II) of alpha-amylase. The molecular weight of the nonglycosylated precursor II produced in the presence of Tunicamycin was 2,900 daltons less than that of the mature form of alpha-amylase (44,000) produced in the absence of Tunicamycin, and 1,800 daltons less than the in vitro synthesized molecule.The inhibition of glycosylation by Tunicamycin as well as in vitro translation helped clarify the heterogeneity of alpha-amylase isozymes. Isoelectrofocusing (pH 4-6) of the products, zymograms, and fluorography were employed on the separated isozyme components. The mature and Tunicamycin-treated nonglycosylated forms of alpha-amylase were found to consist of three isozymes. The in vitro translated precursor forms of alpha-amylase consisted of four multiple components. These results indicate that heterogeneity of alpha-amylase isozymes is not due to glycosylation of the enzyme protein but likely to differences in the primary structure of the protein moiety, which altogether support that rice alpha-amylase isozymes are encoded by multiple genes.
16662516	Curvature, bending moment, and second moment of stem cross-sectional area were evaluated from photographic data and used to compute flexural rigidity and Young's modulus in the panicle rachis of rice, Oryza sativa L. ;M-101.' Flexural rigidity C, and its components E, Young's modulus, and I, the moment of inertia of the area about the neutral axis, were evaluated 1.5 cm (tip), 9.5 cm (mid), and 16.5 cm (base) from the tip of the panicle rachis. In dynes per square centimeter, C increases from 1.1 x 10(3) near the tip to 1.09 x 10(4) in the middle to 5.35 x 10(4) in the basal region of the rachis. Of the components of C, the I changes have the larger effect, increasing from 2.12 x 10(-7) centimeters(4) near the tip to 8.21 x 10(-7) centimeters(4) in mid regions to 6.0 x 10(-6) centimeters(4) in the basal regions. Young's modulus increases from 4.8 x 10(9) dynes per square centimeter near the tip to 1.4 x 10(10) dynes per square centimeter in mid regions then falls to 7.4 x 10(9) dynes per square centimeter near the base of the main stem. Values of Young's modulus from Instron experiments were in satisfactory agreement with values calculated from the beam bending equation. Flexural rigidity in the curved region of the panicle proved independent of panicle load, indicating that the dissected panicle rachis behaves in some respects as a tapered loaded beam.
16662583	Rabbit antiserum was raised against ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthase (EC 1.4.7.1) purified from green leaves of Oryza sativa L. cv Delta. Ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthase, detected in green leaf, etiolated leaf, and root tissues cross-reacted completely with the antiferredoxin glutamate synthase immunoglobulin G. In contrast, the immunoglobulin G did not cross-react with NADH-dependent (EC 1.4.1.14) and NADPH-dependent (EC 1.4.1.13) glutamate synthases found in nonphotosynthetic etiolated leaf and root tissues. In addition, ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthase was separated and distinguished by its affinity to ferredoxin from NAD(P)H-dependent glutamate synthase on ferredoxin-Sepharose affinity chromatography. Based on the immunological studies, it is suggested that ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthases in green leaf and etiolated leaf tissues are closely related proteins; in contrast, ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthase in root tissue is a distinct protein from the leaf enzymes.
16662598	The ultrastructural changes occurring in the scutellar epithelium cells of rice seeds have been studied during germination and early seedling growth. During this time, several prominent structural changes occur, including (a) formation, development, and proliferation of organelles such as mitochondria, rough endoplasmic reticulum, free ribosomes, and Golgi apparatus; (b) folded structural modification of plasmamembranes in later stages; and (c) conspicuous decrease in lipid-storing spherosomes. Glyoxysome-like electron dense particles are detectable but their formation is much less prominent. It is conceivable that all these structural changes are related to the enhancement of the metabolic activities of the epithelial cells including the synthesis of hydrolytic enzymes such as alpha-amylase and their secretion into the endosperm tissues. Some enzyme activities characteristic of mitochondria and glyoxysomes have been determined using the crude scutellar extracts, and the results dealing with the low activities of the glyoxylate cycle enzymes and palmitoyl-coenzyme A oxidase appear to indicate that fatty acid breakdown is possibly via mitochondrial beta-oxidation, although we reserve a definitive conclusion on the glyoxysomes being nonfunctional in fatty acid oxidation in rice seedlings.
16662620	Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic analysis of the starchy endosperm protein of rice (Oryza sativa L. Japonica cv Koshihikari) during seed development confirmed that storage protein begins to accumulate about 5 days after flowering. Two polypeptide groups, 22 to 23 and 37 to 39 kilodaltons, the components of glutelin, the major storage protein in rice seed, appeared 5 days after flowering. A 26-kilodalton polypeptide, the globulin component, also appeared 5 days after flowering. Smaller polypeptides (10- to 16-kilodaltons) including prolamin components, appeared about 10 days after flowering. In contrast, the levels of the 76- and 57-kilodalton polypeptides were fairly constant throughout seed development. Transmission electron microscopy and fractionation by sucrose density gradient centrifugation of the starchy endosperms at various stages of development showed that protein body type II, the accumulation site of glutelin and globulin, was formed faster than protein body type I, the accumulation site of prolamin.The 57-kilodalton polypeptide but not the glutelin subunits was labeled in a 2-hour treatment with [(14)C]leucine given between 4 and 12 days after flowering to developing ears. In vivo pulse-chase labeling studies showed the 57-kilodalton polypeptide to be a precursor of the 22 to 23 and 37 to 39 kilodalton subunits. The 57-kilodalton polypeptide was salt-soluble, but the mature glutelin subunits were almost salt insoluble.In vitro protein synthesis also showed that the mRNAs directly coding the 22 to 23 and 37 to 39 kilodalton components were absent in developing seeds and that the 57-kilodalton polypeptide was the major product. Thus, it was concluded that the two subunits of rice glutelin are formed through post-translational cleavage of the 57-kilodalton polypeptide.
16662758	Nitrate reductase inhibitor is usually found in the roots of rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv MR7), but it was also produced in the shoots of aging plants. The inhibitor was inducible in the shoot of rice seedlings by dark, minus-nitrate or plus-ammonium treatments. There appears to be a general involvement of the inhibitor in the control of nitrate assimilation in the plant.
16662793	The ability of rice, wheat, and oat seedlings to germinate and grow as the O(2) concentration was lowered to zero was compared. The germination of rice was completely unaffected by O(2) supply, whereas that of oats and wheat was strongly retarded at levels below 5% O(2). In contrast to the coleoptiles of oats and wheat and to roots of all three species where growth was progressively diminished as the O(2) concentration was lowered, that of the rice coleoptile was progressively increased. However, the dry weight and content of protein, sugars, and cellulose were all depressed in the rice coleoptile in anoxia, and the levels of several respiratory enzymes, particularly those of mitochondria, were also much lower than those of the coleoptiles grown in air. In 1% O(2), the growth of the rice coleoptile was similar to that in air. The effect of ethanol concentration on germination and growth of rice was measured. Coleoptile growth was reduced when the ethanol concentration exceeded 40 millimolarity, and root growth was somewhat more sensitive. Coleoptiles of all three species grown in air were transferred to N(2), and ethanol accumulation was measured over 24 hours. The rate of ethanol accumulation in oats was close to that in rice, and in all three species the amounts of ethanol lost to the surrounding medium were those expected from simple diffusion from the tissue. The ability of the rice coleoptile to grow in anoxia is apparently not due to a particularly low rate of ethanol formation or to unusual ethanol tolerance. Any explanation of the success of rice in anoxia must encompass the much lower rate of ATP synthesis than that in air and account for the biochemical deficiencies of the coleoptile.
16662805	The formation of multiple forms of amylases in germinating rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Kimmaze) grains was examined by means of isoelectric focusing, cross-immunoelectrophoresis, and rocket-line immunoelectrophoresis followed by a reaction of enzymic characterization by using beta-limit dextrin or starch as substrate. The constituents detected by isoelectric focusing were identified as three electrophoretically heterogeneous antigens. The major alpha-amylase bands A and B corresponded to a same antigen, the main portion of which was produced within 2 days' germination. The bulk of alpha-amylase D appeared between 2 and 4 days' germination. Component E, a debranching enzyme according to its action on the beta-limit dextrin, already exists in the ungerminated seeds; its amount decreases within the first 2 days of germination and increases again thereafter.Evidence showing that beta-amylase (band C) is produced by the scutellum at an early stage of germination was provided. The enzyme appeared in a suspension of the scutellum after a prolonged incubation.
16662898	Alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) was measured in the various organs of rice seedlings (Oryza sativa) growing in air. In extracts from ungerminated seeds, the ADH is stable, but in extracts from seedlings more than 2 days old the enzyme initially present loses activity in a time- and temperature-dependent fashion, due to the presence of an inactivating component which increases with age in roots and shoots. The inactivation can be prevented completely by dithiothreitol, and when this is included in the extraction medium the apparent loss of total ADH in roots and shoots with age is not observed. In seedlings grown in N(2), ADH levels in coleoptile extracts are higher than those in air, the enzyme is stable, and no inactivator can be detected. When seedlings grown for 5 days in air were transferred to N(2) for 3 days, ADH levels increased and there was a decline in inactivator activity. Transfer back to air after 1 day in N(2) led to loss of the accumulated ADH and increase in inactivator. These reciprocal changes and the fact that the inactivator is absent from coleoptiles of seedlings grown in N(2) appear to suggest a regulatory role for the inactivator in vivo. However, it is clear that high levels of inactivator and ADH can exist in cells of seedlings grown in air for long periods without loss of enzyme activity, and it is argued that they must normally be separately compartmented.
16662899	The alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) inactivator from aerobically grown rice (Oryza sativa) coleoptiles was shown to be associated with membranes which were recovered in sucrose gradients at peak density 1.13 grams per cubic centimeter. When Mg(2+) was included in the gradient, the inactivator was recovered at peak density 1.16 grams per cubic centimeter coinciding with the marker enzyme for endoplasmic reticulum, antimycin A-insensitive NADH cytochrome c reductase. ADH was recovered exclusively in cytosol fractions. The inactivator attacks ADH from several plant sources and from yeast. There was no evidence for proteolysis when pure yeast ADH was inactivated by the inactivator, but there was a loss of SH groups from ADH during inactivation which was restored after incubation with dithiothreitol under denaturing conditions. The inactivator did not attack other SH enzymes tested but did result in loss of SH groups from glutathione and dithiothreitol which prevent ADH inactivation. When O(2) was removed from the inactivator assay medium, the inactivation as well as the loss of SH groups from yeast ADH was significantly depressed.
16662943	Rice (Oryza sativa var. Cigalon) is a plant which can adapt to very stringent anoxic conditions. It has previously been shown that during the adaptation period the energy charge can be used as a marker for metabolic activity. We have studied RNA metabolism during this period and correlated it with changes in the energy charge. Uptake of labeled precursor, UTP-specific activity, and incorporation were measured. Immediately after transfer to anaerobic conditions, the UTP pool size is reduced and the overall rate of incorporation drops. During adaptation, the rate of incorporation increases and stabilizes at about half of its value in aerobic conditions. Analysis of RNA shows that rRNA and mRNA are synthesized and that the processing of ribosomal RNA precursor is altered. Polyribosomes are present throughout the adaptation period although their amount is reduced during the first hour of anoxia. Changes in poly(A) content were noticed, indicating that some mRNA are rapidly degraded. Taken together, the results show that the RNA metabolism can be modulated during adaptation to anoxia in a parallel manner with energy charge changes.
16662987	The intracellular localization of aryl acylamidase (aryl-acylamide amidohydrolase, EC 3.5.1.13) in rice (Oryza sativa L. var Starbonnet) leaves was investigated. The enzyme hydrolyzes and detoxifies the herbicide propanil (3,4-dichloropropionanilide) thereby accounting for immunity of the rice plant to herbicidal action. Fractionation of mesophyll protoplasts by differential centrifugation yielded the highest specific activity of amidase in the crude mitochondrial fraction. Further separation of density gradients of the silica sol Percoll also indicated that this enzyme was mitochondrial. By the use of biochemical markers, the purified mitochondrial fraction was shown to be substantially free of contamination from nuclei, chloroplasts, golgi, and plasma membranes. Subfractionation of the purified mitochondria suggests that this enzyme is located on the outer membrane.
16663022	We investigated the effect of partial submergence on internode elongation in a Bangladesh variety of floating or deep water rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. Habiganj Aman II). In plants which were at least 21 days old, 7 days of submergence led to a 3- to 5-fold increase in internodal length. During submergence, the ethylene concentration in the internodes increased from about 0.02 to 1 microliters per liter. Treatment of nonsubmerged plants with ethylene also stimulated internode elongation. When ethylene synthesis in partially submerged plants was blocked with aminooxyacetic acid and aminoethoxyvinylglycine, internode elongation was inhibited. This growth inhibition was reversed when ethylene biosynthesis was restored with 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC). Radio-labeling studies showed that ethylene in floating rice was synthesized from methionine via ACC. Internodal tissue from submerged plants had a much higher capacity to form ethylene than did internodal tissue from nonsubmerged plants. This increase in ethylene synthesis appeared to be due to enhanced ACC formation rather than to increased conversion of ACC to ethylene. Our results indicate that ethylene produced during submergence is required for the stimulation of growth in submerged floating rice plants.
16663023	In partially flooded deep water rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Habiganj Aman II), continuous air layers trapped between the hydrophobic, corrugated surface of the leaf blades and the surrounding water constitute the major path of aeration. The conduction of gases through the internal air spaces of the leaf is negligible compared to the conduction of gases through the external air layers. The total volume of the air layers on both sides of a leaf blade is about 45% of the volume of the leaf blade itself. The size of the air layers around submerged leaf blades of cereals not adapted to conditions of partial flooding, e.g. of oats, barley, and wheat, is considerably smaller than that of rice. Gases move through the air layers not only by diffusion but also by mass flow. In darkness, air is drawn down from the atmosphere through the air layers along a pressure gradient created by solubilization of respiratory CO(2) in the surrounding water. In light, photosynthetic O(2) is expelled through the air layers to the atmosphere because the solubility of O(2) in water is much lower than that of CO(2). Air layers greatly increase the rate of photosynthetic carbon fixation by enlarging the surface of the gas-liquid interface available for CO(2) uptake from the water. Air layers are vital for the survival of the partially submerged rice plant. When leaves are washed with a dilute solution of a surfactant (Triton X-100), no air layers are formed under water. Plants without air layers do not grow in response to submergence, and the submerged parts of the plant deteriorate as evident by rapid loss of chlorophyll and protein. Air layers provide a significant survival advantage even to completely submerged rice plants.
16663077	Soluble root N concentrations of corn, sorghum, pearl millet, rice, wild rice, and soybeans were determined and related to measurements of nitrogenase activity and changes in availability of combined N to plants. In corn, sorghum, and pearl millet, applications of fertilizer N increased soluble root N concentrations, but root-associated nitrogenase activity was negligible in control and treated plants. Applications of NH(4)NO(3) to rice increased the water soluble root N concentrations and inhibited root-associated nitrogenase activity. In wild rice, root-associated nitrogenase activity was absent during vegetative growth and developed at the reproductive growth stage. The soluble root N concentration decreased progressively as wild rice grew indicating that the availability of combined N in the root environment declined. Therefore, development of nitrogenase activity in wild rice is associated with the change in availability of combined N in the root environment. The development of nitrogenase activity in wild rice was probably not due to colonization of roots by N(2)-fixing bacteria because most probable numbers of recovery did not significantly vary throughout the plants' growth cycle. In field-grown soybeans with or without fertilizer N application, we also observed a relationship between a decrease in soluble root N concentration and the development of nitrogenase activity.
16663086	Echinochloa crus-galli L. Beauv., a rice-field weed, can germinate and grow for extended periods of time in an anaerobic environment. Compared to pea, which does not germinate under anaerobiosis, the evolution of CO(2) in Echinochloa and rice is lower and the peak rate of CO(2) evolution is delayed when germinated without oxygen. The plants studied also differ with respect to their respiration ratio ([CO(2)] N(2)/[CO(2)] air) and metabolism used during the early stages of germination. Echinochloa does not increase its glycolytic rate under anaerobiosis, whereas pentose phosphate pathway activity appears to increase during the first 40 to 50 hours of germination.Based on its response to metabolic inhibitors (NaF, dinitrophenol, and malonate), anaerobic metabolism in Echinochloa proceeds primarily through glycolysis, with partial operation of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and little or no oxidative phosphorylation. Also, Echinochloa is sensitive to CN during aerobic germination, whereas rice appears to be able to shift to CN-insensitive electron transport. Finally, the effectiveness of cyanide and azide on inhibiting germination of Echinochloa in N(2), but not CO, suggests that cytochrome oxidase is not used to reoxidize pyridine nucleotides in the absence of oxygen. The possible existence of an alternate electron acceptor is discussed.
16663163	Cereal embryos can produce two types of callus. One type, termed "embryogenic," consists of small meristematic-like cells and gives rise to many plants by somatic embryogenesis if placed on a suitable regeneration medium. The other is termed "nonembryogenic" and consists of long tubular cells which gives rise to few or no plants. High concentrations of tryptophan increased the formation of embryogenic callus in three rice cultivars (Oryza sativa L. Calrose 76, Pokkali, and IR 36) but not in four others (Mahsuri, Bg 400-1, H(4), and Giza 159). The best concentration of tryptophan for Pokkali and Calrose 76 was 100 micrograms per milliliter, and for IR 36, 50 micrograms per milliliter. Indoleacetic acid at 100 micrograms per milliliter promoted an effect similar to that of tryptophan on Calrose 76. The difference between japonica (Calrose 76, Giza 159) and indica (Pokkali, IR 36) varieties is not the causal factor for the difference in response to tryptophan. Kinetin does not appear to be a requirement for embryogenic callus formation in Calrose 76. Plant regeneration from Calrose 76 embryogenic callus occurred at low levels in media containing no hormones. 6-benzyladenine, or 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid but not indoleacetic acid at 0.1 to 0.5 micrograms per milliliter significantly increased regeneration.
16663217	Shoots of anaerobically germinated Echinochloa crus-galli var oryzicola are nonpigmented whether germinated in light or dark, and chlorophyll synthesis is minimal for the first 12 to 18 hours of greening after exposure to ambient conditions. When chlorophyll development is compared between greening anoxic and etiolated shoots, there is a 100-fold difference in chlorophyll levels at 8 hours, an 8-fold difference at 24 hours, but roughly equal amounts at 60 hours. The chlorophyll a/b ratio approaches 3 earlier in greening anoxic shoots than in greening etiolated shoots, relative to total chlorophyll. The long lag in chlorophyll synthesis can be shortened by giving dark-grown anoxic shoots a 24-hour midtreatment of air before light.Development of photosynthetic activity in etiolated shoots, determined by CO(2) gas exchange, (14)CO(2) uptake, and activity of carboxylating enzymes closely parallels development of chlorophylls. However, development of photosynthetic capability in greening anoxic shoots does not parallel chlorophyll development; ability to fix carbon lags behind chlorophyll synthesis. A reason for this lag is the very low activity of RuBP carboxylase during the first 36 hours of greening in anoxic shoots. The activity of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase is also delayed, but its kinetics more closely match those of chlorophyll development.
16663224	Sodium nitrite at 10 millimolar breaks dormancy of dehulled red rice (Oryza sativa). While germination is light independent, low pH conditions (pH 3) are required for maximum response. Water and buffer controls at pH 3 remain dormant. The response to nitrite occurs at 25 and 30 degrees C but is reduced at 20 degrees C, although nondormant seeds germinate readily at this temperature. The contact time for response to nitrite is less than 2 h at the start of imbibition. Seeds imbibed first in water show reduced germination when subsequently transferred to nitrite. Dehulled seeds show little or no response to nitrate and ammonium ions.Intact seeds remain dormant in the presence of nitrite or nitrate unless partially dry-afterripened. The pH dependence of nitrite sensitivity is reduced in intact, afterripening seeds. In highly dormant seeds, vacuum infiltration experiments suggest that the hull restricts uptake of nitrite.
16663304	Endogenous gibberellin (GA)-like substances were examined in suspension cultures of somatic embryos of a hybrid grape (Vitis vinifera x Vitis rupestris) during embryogenesis, and in mature embryos chilled at 4 degrees C, and subsequently incubated at 26 degrees C with and without abscisic acid (ABA). The extract was separated into a nonpolar fraction (would contain GA-precursors); a fraction that would contain free GAs; and a highly H(2)O-soluble fraction (would contain GA glucosyl conjugates and very polar free GAs). Quantitation after SiO(2) partition chromatography was accomplished by microdrop and immersion dwarf rice bioassays. As embryogenesis developed, the free and highly H(2)O-soluble GA-like substances, expressed on a dry weight basis, decreased (however, they increased on a per embryo basis). Chilling at 4 degrees C for 1 week greatly increased activity of free GA-like substances (per g dry weight and per embryo), it then declined over the next three weeks of chilling. Activity (per g dry weight and per embryo) in the H(2)O-soluble fraction declined throughout chilling. Activity in the GA-precursor fraction, however, increased steadily with chilling (per g dry weight and per embryo). Incubation at 26 degrees C after chilling enhanced activity in the free GA and H(2)O-soluble fractions (per g dry weight and per embryo), but activity in the GA-precursor fraction dropped dramatically. Incubation at 26 degrees C with (+/-) ABA after chilling prevented germination and maintained high activity for GA precursors and less polar free GAs and low activity in the polar free GA and H(2)O-soluble fractions.Kaurene and kaurenoic acid were characterized in the GA-precursor fraction of chilled embryos by gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (GLC-MS). The existence of GA(4) and GA(9) in ABA-treated, chilled embryos was also confirmed by GLC-MS.
16663318	Changes in photosynthesis and the ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) carboxylase level were examined in the 12th leaf blades of rice (Oryza sativa L.) grown under different N levels. Photosynthesis was determined using an open infrared gas analysis system. The level of RuBP carboxylase was measured by rocket immunoelectrophoresis. These changes were followed with respect to changes in the activities of RuBP carboxylase, ribulose 5-phosphate kinase, NADP-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and 3-phosphoglyceric acid kinase.RuBP carboxylase activity was highly correlated with the net rate of photosynthesis (r = 0.968). Although high correlations between the activities of other enzymes and photosynthesis were also found, the activity per leaf of RuBP carboxylase was much lower than those of other enzymes throughout the leaf life. The specific activity of RuBP carboxylase on a milligram of the enzyme protein basis remained fairly constant (1.16 +/- 0.07 micromoles of CO(2) per minute per milligram at 25 degrees C) throughout the experimental period.Kinetic parameters related to CO(2) fixation were examined using the purified carboxylase. The K(m)(CO(2)) and V(max) values were 12 micromolar and 1.45 micromoles of CO(2) per minute per milligram, respectively (pH 8.2 and 25 degrees C). The in vitro specific activity calculated at the atomospheric CO(2) level from the parameters was comparable to the in situ true photosynthetic rate per milligram of the carboxylase throughout the leaf life.The results indicated that the level of RuBP carboxylase protein can be a limiting factor in photosynthesis throughout the life span of the leaf.
16663335	The role of ethylene in the senescence of detached rice leaves in relation to their changes in 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) content and ethylene production was studied. In freshly excised rice leaf segments, ACC level and ethylene production rates were very low. Following incubation, the rates of ethylene production increased and reached a maximum in 12 h, and subsequently declined. The rise of ethylene production was associated with a 20- to 30-fold increase in ACC level.Ethylene seems to be involved in the regulation of the senescence of detached rice leaves. This conclusion was based on the observations that (a) maximum ethylene production preceded chlorophyll degradation, (b) ACC application promoted chlorophyll degradation, (c) inhibitors of ethylene production and ethylene action retarded chlorophyll degradation, and (d) various treatments such as light, cycloheximide, alpha,alpha-dipyridyl, Ni(2+), and cold temperature, which retarded chlorophyll degradation, also inhibited ethylene production.Abscisic acid promoted senescence but significantly decreased ethylene production, whereas benzyladenine retarded senescence but promoted ethylene production. This is interpreted to indicate that abscisic acid treatment increased the tissue sensitivity to ethylene, whereas benzyladenine treatment decreased it.
16663573	The scutellar epithelial cells of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Kimmaz) seeds actively secrete alpha-amylase in an early stage of germination. Employing an in vivo system of freshly dissected scutellar tissues, effect of Ca(2+) on the biosynthesis and the secretion of alpha-amylase have been studied. The maximum biosynthetic rate was saturated at about 0.5 mm external Ca(2+) concentrations, whereas the secretion continued to increase to concentrations above 10 mm Ca(2+). In the presence of 1 mm Ca(2+), 0.01 mum A-23187 significantly increased both the biosynthesis and the secretion of alpha-amylase.A cation-specific requirement for Ca(2+) was apparent, since both biosynthesis and extracellular secretion of alpha-amylase were inhibited by 0.1 mm EGTA but were increased above basal rate only with Ca(2+) and Sr(2+); K(+), Mg(2+), and Ba(2+) being ineffective.La(3+) and ruthenium red (selective inhibitors of [Ca(2+) + Mg(2+)]-ATPase) were found to profoundly inhibit the secretion of alpha-amylase. A calmodulin antagonist, W-7, also inhibited the secretion of alpha-amylase at concentrations where the enzyme synthesis was not much affected. Overall data indicate that Ca(2+) movement and secretion of alpha-amylase are tightly linked and it is likely that they are regulated by the cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration under possible control by calmodulin.
16663594	Ethylene concentrations of CO(2) cylinders from different sources ranged from <0.1 up to 475 microliters per liter. The effect of the higher ethylene concentrations on growth of species in CO(2) enrichment studies was examined. Though maize plants showed no effect on C(2)H(4), growth of tomato, rice, mung bean, and phalaris was substantially reduced by ambient concentrations of ethylene in the range of 0.02 to 0.06 microliters per liter.
16663615	Addition of polyethylene glycol (PEG) as an osmotic agent (at -230 kilopascals) dramatically lessened the toxicity of NaCl (at 50 moles per cubic meter) to rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings. This was explained by a reduction in the uptake of NaCl. This reduction was much greater than could be accounted for by the lowered transpiration rate resulting from the solute potential changes due to the PEG.Low concentrations of PEG (-33 kilopascals and less) had no effect upon transpiration rate but reduced sodium uptake (from 10-50 moles per cubic meter NaCl) by up to 80%. PEG (at -33 kilopascals) also reduced chloride uptake but had no effect upon the uptake of potassium from low (0.5-2.0 moles per cubic meter) external concentrations. However, the increased uptake of potassium occurring between 2 and 10 moles per cubic meter external concentration was abolished by PEG. Similar concentrations of mannitol had no effect upon sodium uptake in rice. PEG, in similar conditions, had much less effect upon sodium uptake by the more salt-resistant species, barley.(22)Na studies showed that PEG reduced the transport of sodium from root to shoot, but had a long half time for maximal effect (several days).(14)C-labeled PEG was shown to bind to microsomal membranes isolated from rice roots; it is suggested that this is due to multipoint attachment of the complex ions of PEG which exist in aqueous solutions. It is argued that this reduces passive membrane permeability, which accounts for the large effect of PEG on sodium influx in rice and the different effects on sodium influx and (carrier-dependent) potassium influx.
16663622	Osmotic adjustment, measured by the lowering of the osmotic potential at full turgor, and its influence on leaf rolling and leaf death was assessed in the lowland rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar IR36 in both the greenhouse and field. The degree of osmotic adjustment varied with the degree and duration of stress, but was usually 0.5 to 0.6 megapascal (maximally 0.8 to 0.9 megapascal) under severe stress conditions. In leaves in which osmotic adjustment was 0.5 to 0.6 megapascal, leaf rolling and leaf death occurred at lower leaf water potentials in adjusted than in nonadjusted leaves. We conclude that osmotic adjustment aids in the drought resistance of rice by delaying leaf rolling, thereby maintaining gas exchange, and by delaying leaf death.
16663647	Carboxypeptidase activity (hydrolysis of N-carbobenzoxy-l-phenylalanyl-l-alanine) is high in a number of temperate zone cereals, originating in Asia Minor (wheat, barley, oats, wild oats, rye, triticale) compared to other cereals originating in central America or Asia (maize, sorghum, rice). However, endopeptidase activity (hydrolysis of azocasein or hemoglobin) is relatively much higher in the latter group. Comparison of trichloroacetic acid (TCA)-soluble products derived from the hydrolysis of hemoglobin showed that carboxyterminal amino acids (histidine, arginine, and tyrosine), are released when extracts from wheat and barley endosperms are used. With extracts from corn endosperms, much more TCA-soluble ultraviolet- absorbing material is released, but very little is released as free amino acids within the first 2 hours and the expected C-terminal amino acids of hemoglobin are not detected in significant amounts. These results suggest that the method of hydrolysis of the storage proteins may be significantly different in these two classes of cereals.
16663779	The cell wall composition of internodes of deep-water rice plants (Oryza sativa L. cv Habiganj Aman II) which were induced to grow rapidly by submergence in water was compared to that of nonsubmerged plants which grew slowly. No differences could be detected in cellulose, uronic acid, and lignin content expressed on a dry weight basis. Cell wall preparations of rapidly growing, submerged internodes contained more hydroxyproline and had a higher hydration capacity than those of control internodes. The silicon content of submerged rice internodes was considerably lower than that of air-grown plants. The role of silicon as a structural component of the cell wall of grasses is discussed in relation to lodging of deep-water rice plants after the flood waters have receded.
16663977	We have shown previously that ethylene, which accumulates in the air spaces of submerged stem sections of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv "Habiganj Aman II"), is involved in regulating the growth response caused by submergence. The role of gibberellins in the submergence response was studied using tetcyclacis (TCY), a new plant growth retardant, which inhibits gibberellin biosynthesis. Stem sections excised from plants that had been watered with a solution of 1 micromolar TCY for 7 to 10 days did not elongate when submerged in the same solution or when exposed to 1 microliter per liter ethylene in air. Gibberellic acid (GA(3)) at 0.3 micromolar overcame the effect of TCY and restored the rapid internodal elongation in submerged and ethylene-treated sections to the levels observed in control sections that had not been treated with TCY. The effect of 0.01 to 0.2 micromolar GA(3) on internodal elongation was enhanced two- to eight-fold when 1 microliter per liter ethylene was added to the air passing through the chamber in which the sections were incubated. GA(3) and ethylene caused a similar increase in cell division and cell elongation in rice internodes. Thus, ethylene may cause internodal elongation in rice by increasing the activity of endogenous GAs. In internodes from which the leaf sheath had been peeled off, growth in response to submergence, ethylene and GA(3) was severely inhibited by light.
16664084	A number of proteins that accumulate in vacuoles and protein bodies undergo posttranslational processing at these accumulation sites. These processing steps include proteolytic cleavage (e.g. pea lectin, soybean glycinin, and rice lectin) and the removal of some sugar residues from oligosaccharide side-chains (e.g. bean phytohemagglutinin). Treatment of immature rice embryos with the sodium ionophore monensin slows down the proteolytic processing of the rice lectin precursor (M(r) 23,000) to mature rice lectin (M(r) 10,000 and 8,000). Treatment of developing bean cotyledons with monensin slows down the removal of peripheral N-acetylglucosamine residues from the oligosaccharide side-chains of phytohemagglutinin. The results are consistent with the interpretation that these processing steps, which occur in vacuoles or protein bodies, are carried out by enzymes with an acidic pH optimum, and that monensin slows down processing by alkalinization of the vacuoles or protein bodies.
16664193	The two major subunits of rice glutelin, the acidic (alpha) and basic (beta) polypeptides were purified by chromatofocusing and cation exchange chromatography, respectively. The molecular weight range of the alpha polypeptides was 28.5 to 30.8 kilodaltons and the molecular weight range of the beta polypeptides was 20.6 to 21.6 kilodaltons. Electrofocusing in polyacrylamide gels showed that the isoelectric points of the alpha and beta polypeptides were 6.5 to 7.5 and 9.4 to 10.3, respectively. At least 12 polypeptides of the alpha-group and nine polypeptides of the beta-group could be separated by electrofocusing. The amino acid compositions of whole glutelin, and the purified alpha and beta subunits were analyzed. The alpha subunit contained more glutamic acid/glutamine, serine, and glycine, and less alanine, lysine, aspartic acid/asparagine, and isoleucine than the beta subunit. A comparison of the amino acid composition of rice glutelin subunits with those of the 11S proteins from eight other plant species indicated that there is more similarity between the beta subunits than the alpha subunits of several diverse plant species.
16664256	Gibberellins (GAs) A(1), A(5), and A(29) were identified, and also GA(32) was confirmed, as endogenous GAs of immature seeds (3-4 weeks after anthesis, 0.25-0.5 gram fresh weight) of apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.) based on capillary gas chromatography (GC), retention time (Rt), and selected ion monitoring (SIM), in comparison with authentic standards. Fractions subjected to GC-SIM were purified and separated using sequential solvent partitioning --> paper chromatography --> reverse phase C(18) high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) --> bioassay on dwarf rice cv Tan-ginbozu. Two other peaks of free GA-like bioactivity (microdrop and immersion dwarf rice assays) were eluted from C(18) HPLC at Rts where GA(4/7) and GA(8) (or other GAs with similar structures) would elute. Also, three unidentified GA glucoside-like compounds (based on bioactivity on the immersion assay, and no bioactivity on the microdrop assay) were noted. There were very high amounts of GA(32) (112 ng of GA(3) equivalents per gram fresh weight), and minor amounts (0.5 ng of GA(3) equivalents) for each of GA(1) and GA(5), respectively, based on the microdrop assay.
16664275	During anaerobic germination, rice produces a coleoptile devoid of carotenoid and chlorophyll. Further development and greening of the shoot occur upon exposure of the seedlings to air. In this study, a comparison was made between anaerobically (N(2)) germinated rice, greened upon exposure to air, and air/dark (A/D) germinated seedlings, greened upon exposure to light. After exposure to air, N(2)-grown seedlings had a 76-hour lag before net oxygen evolution occurred compared to a 6-hour lag for A/D-grown seedlings. After 98 h of greening, N(2)-grown seedlings reached a rate of oxygen evolution equivalent to that of A/D-grown seedlings after 24 hours. Chlorophyll and carotenoid content showed a similar lag, but did not reach the level found in A/D-grown seedlings even after 124 hours of exposure to air. RuBPcase activity also lagged in N(2)-grown seedlings, ultimately reaching greater values than in the ;greened' A/D-grown seedlings. Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase activity was constant and low in all treatments except for a transient increase after 24 hours of greening of the N(2)-grown seedlings.
16664331	The globulins from wheat caryopses were found to consist primarily of protein sedimenting at approximately 3S and 7S. These proteins displayed a molecular weight distribution similar to that of the purified vicilin-like fractions from oat and pea, with variations occurring in the isoelectric points and relative quantities of their major subunits. concanavalin A Sepharose chromatography suggested that the major polypeptides of the wheat (3S + 7S) fraction are glycosylated. Western blot analysis using antioat (3S + 7S) globulin immunoglobulin G revealed the vicilins from pea and the globulin fractions of oat, wheat, barley, rye, corn, and rice to contain immunologically homologous polypeptides. Major groups of polypeptides were shared by all the cereals and pea, including subunits of approximately 75, 50, 40 kilodaltons and 20 to 25 kilodaltons. These results indicate that legume-like 3S and 7S globulins have been conserved and are being expressed in cereals.
16664369	Etiolated whole rice seedlings enclosed in sealed vials produced ethylene at a rate of 0.9 picomole per hour per seedling. When 2-centimeter-long shoots were subdivided into 5-millimeter-long sections, the sections containing the tip of the shoot evolved 37% of the total ethylene with the remaining 63% being produced along a gradient decreasing to the base of the shoot. The tip of the coleoptile also had the highest level of the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid and of the ethylene-forming enzyme activity. Ethylene is one of the factors controlling coleoptile elongation. Decapitation of the seedling reduced ethylene evolution to one-third its original level and inhibited coleoptile growth. In short-term experiments, the growth rate of decapitated seedlings was restored to almost that of intact seedlings by application of ethylene at a concentration of 10 microliters per liter. Apart from ethylene, O(2) also participates in the control of coleoptile growth. When rice seedlings were grown in a gas mixture of N(2) and O(2), the length of the coleoptiles reached a maximum at a concentration of 2.5% O(2). Lower and higher concentrations of O(2) reduced coleoptile growth. The effect of exogenous ethylene on coleoptile growth was also O(2) dependent.
16664401	The enzymic properties of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) carboxylase/oxygenase purified from rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves were studied. Rice RuBPcarboxylase, activated by preincubation with CO(2) and Mg(2+) like other higher plant carboxylases, had an activation equilibrium constant (K(c)K(Mg)) of 1.90 x 10(5) to 2.41 x 10(5) micromolar(2) (pH 8.2 and 25 degrees C). Kinetic parameters of carboxylation and oxygenation catalyzed by the completely activated enzyme were examined at 25 degrees C and the respective optimal pHs. The K(m)(CO(2)), K(m)(RuBP), and V(max) values for carboxylation were 8 micromolar, 31 micromolar, and 1.79 units milligram(-1), respectively. The K(m)(O(2)), K(m)(RuBP), and V(max) values for oxygenation were 370 micromolar, 29 micromolar, and 0.60 units milligram(-1), respectively.Comparison of rice leaf RuBP carboxylase with other C(3) plant carboxylases showed that it had a relatively high affinity for CO(2) but the lowest catalytic turnover number (V(max)) among the species examined.
16664509	The respiration and fermentation rates were compared in germinating seeds of 12 different cultivated species from five families. In air, fermentation contributes significantly to the energy metabolism only in some species (pea, maize), but is generally negligible when compared to respiration. The fermentation rate under anoxia was related either to the metabolic activity under air or to the adenine nucleotide content of the seeds: it was generally higher in seeds which contain starchy reserves (rice, maize, sorghum, pea), than in seeds which do not contain starch (lettuce, sunflower, radish, turnip, cabbage, flax); however, it was similar in wheat, sorghum (starchy seeds), and soya (nonstarchy seeds). The value of the energy charge of all the seeds was lower under anoxia than in air: after 24 hours under anoxia, it was higher than 0.5 in the starchy seeds and in soya and it was around 0.25 in the other fatty seeds.
16664510	The effect of O(2) partial pressure on the germination and the respiration of 12 cultivated species was studied. The reciprocal of the time necessary to observe rootlet emergence in 50% of the seeds was used to approach the germination rate. The maximum germination and respiration rates were reached in most seeds at O(2) pressures close to that of air. Decreasing the O(2) pressure produced a gradual decrease of the germination rate. The seeds could be classed in two groups according to their response to low O(2) pressures. Group I includes lettuce, sunflower, radish, turnip, cabbage, flax, and soybean: at O(2) pressures close to 2 kilopascals, the germination in this group was stopped and the adenylate energy charge was lower than 0.6. Group II includes rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, and pea. The germination rate of these seeds was also gradually decreased by lowering the O(2) partial pressure but germination still occured, very slowly, at 0.1 kilopascal; the adenylate energy charge remained higher than 0.6. These differences in the germination rates and adenylate energy charge values could not be explained by differences in the sensitivity of respiration to O(2).
16664636	The effects of exposure to low temperature on photosynthesis and protein phosphorylation in chilling-sensitive and cold-tolerant plant species were compared. Chilling temperatures resulted in light-dependent loss of photosynthetic electron transport in chilling-sensitive rice (Oryza sativa L.) but not in cold-tolerant barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Brief exposure to chilling temperatures (0-15 degrees C, 10 min) did not cause a significant difference in photosynthetic O(2) evolution capacity in vivo between rice and barley. Analysis of in vivo chlorophyll fluorescence in chilling-sensitive rice suggests that low temperatures cause an increased reduction of the plastoquinone pool that could result in photoinhibitory damage to the photosystem II reaction centers. Analysis of (32)P incorporation into thylakoid proteins both in vivo and in vitro demonstrated that chilling temperature inhibited protein phosphorylation in rice, but not in barley. Low temperature (77 K) fluorescence analysis of isolated thylakoid membranes indicated that state I to state II transitions occurred in barley, but not in rice subjected to chilling temperatures. These observations suggest that protein phosphorylation may play an important role in protection against photoinhibition caused by exposure to chilling temperatures.
16664647	Twelve cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.), representing deepwater, short-statured, and semidwarf types, were tested for their response to submergence. The magnitude of the response varied between cultivars; however, all cultivars responded to submergence by rapid growth once internodal elongation had started. Three of these cultivars were tested for elongation capacity at four ages. The deepwater rice was capable of rapid internodal elongation in response to submergence at 4 weeks of age. Growth of the short-statured and semidwarf cultivars was not stimulated by submergence until about 10 weeks of age. In air, the internodes of deepwater rice grew slower than did those of the short-statured and semidwarf cultivars. We also investigated the elongation response of stem sections of all 12 cultivars to an atmosphere containing 3% O(2), 6% CO(2), 91% N(2) (all by volume), and 1 microliter per liter ethylene. We found that the response of each of the non-deepwater cultivars was qualitatively and quantitatively similar to that of the deepwater rice.
16664656	The activity of NaN(3) (0.5 millimolar), hydroxylamine-HCl (10-18 millimolar), and potassium cyanide (1 millimolar) as dormancy-breaking agents of dehulled red rice (Oryza sativa) is pH-dependent such that medium pH values favoring formation of the uncharged chemical species resulted in the highest germination percentages. There was no promotive effect of pH itself in the range of 3 to 10. The minimum contact times for maximum response (>/=90% germination) to NaN(3), KCN, and NH(2)OH-HCl are 8 hours at pH 4, 24 hours at pH 8, and 72 hours at pH 6 or 7, respectively, for exposure commencing at the start of imbibition. Dehulled seeds, imbibed first in water, show only slightly reduced germination when subsequently transferred to solutions of dormancy-breaking chemicals.Intact seeds remain dormant in the presence of NaN(3), KCN, or NH(2)OH-HCl unless partially dry-afterripened. The pH dependence of these chemicals is reduced in intact, afterripening seeds.
16664657	A protein, starch phosphorylase inhibitor, was purified from the root of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas [L.] Lam. cv Tainon 65). It had a molecular weight of 250,000 and could be composed of five identical subunits. The isoelectric point of the inhibitor was 4.63. It was a noncompetitive inhibitor toward the sweet potato enzyme with a K(i) value of 1.3 x 10(-6) molar when glucose-1-P was the variable substrate. Because cross-reacting materials of rabbit antiphosphorylase inhibitor of sweet potato were found in three arbitrarily selected plant materials, viz. potato tuber, spinach leaf, and rice grain, the occurrence of this protein seemed universal in higher plants. By an immunofluorescence technique, the inhibitor was located in the amyloplast and cell wall where phosphorylase was also found. This implies that they may interact in vivo, and the inhibitor may play an unknown regulatory role against the plant enzyme.
16664732	Ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthase (EC 1.4.7.1), glutamate oxoglutarate aminotransferase (glutamate synthase) (GOGAT) messenger RNA was extracted from maize (Zea mays L.) leaves and partially purified through oligo(dT)-cellulose chromatography and ultracentrifugation in a sucrose gradient. mRNA were translated in vitro using a reticulocyte system. The glutamate synthase subunit was characterized by immunoprecipitation with antibodies raised against the rice (Oryza sativa L.) ferredoxin-glutamate synthase. The in vitro synthesized protein and the 145 kilodaltons genuine maize leaf subunit of GOGAT were found to comigrate in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis experiments.
16664836	The effect of temperature on accumulation of starch was studied in grain slices of wheat (Triticum aestivum cv SUN9E), taken 15 days after anthesis. As compared with pretreatment of such slices at 25 degrees C, pretreatment at 30 or 35 degrees C reduced the subsequent conversion of sucrose to starch. In contrast to rice (Oryza sativa cv Calrose), pretreatment of wheat soluble starch synthase in vitro at 30 degrees C or higher temperatures reduced its activity. In zymograms using nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis followed by activity staining, the slowest migrating band represented the most temperature sensitive isozyme. Although preincubation of a soluble enzyme sample in vitro at 25 degrees C did not result in loss of starch synthase activity, it did result in a gradual shift of zymogram banding pattern toward faster migrating species. Pretreatment of isolated starch granules at 40 degrees C increased their bound starch synthase activity. Both soluble and bound enzymes in the grains of whole wheat plants lost activity when the plants were held above 30 degrees C for 30 minutes or longer. Both activities lost from the grains after a 1 hour treatment at 37 degrees C were restored in 1 to 2 days by a return to 21 degrees C. In slices, inactivation of the soluble starch synthase was increased by incubation with 2,4-dinitrophenol. It is tentatively suggested that in vivo heat inactivation of soluble starch synthase may be a direct effect of heat on the enzyme protein and that of bound enzyme an indirect effect involving metabolic factors.
16664870	Western blots of soluble protein from wheat, rice, and corn showed that ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase subunits have a size of 50 kilodaltons from endosperm tissue and 43 and 46 kilodaltons from leaf. Antisera to ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase precipitated in vitro translation products of 73 and 76 kilodaltons when leaf poly(A)(+) RNA was used, whereas endosperm mRNA directed the synthesis of 50 and 56 kilodalton polypeptides. To further study the nature of these mRNA species, an ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase cDNA clone from rice endosperm polyadenylated RNA was obtained and used as a hybridization probe. Northern blots showed that ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase mRNA was slightly larger in leaf (2100 bases) than in endosperm tissue (1900 bases). These studies indicated that in cereals there are at least two tissue specific forms of ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase that are encoded by distinct mRNA transcripts. Analysis of genomic DNA by Southern blotting suggested that ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase is encoded by a small gene family.
16664896	When the glutelin protein fraction of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seeds was fractionated by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, three size classes of proteins, 51 kilodaltons (kD), 34 to 37 kD, and 21 to 22 kD, as well as a contaminating prolamine polypeptide of 14 kD were detected. Antibodies were raised against these proteins and employed in studies to determine whether a precursor-product relationship existed among the glutelin components. Antibodies of the 34 to 37 kD and 21 to 22 kD polypeptides strongly reacted with the 51 kD protein, and conversely, anti-51 kD protein cross reacted with both of the putative subunits. Immunoprecipitation of in vitro translated products resulted in the synthesis of only the precursor form, indicating that the alpha and beta subunits are proteolytic products of the 51 kD precursor protein. The poly(A)(+) RNA directed in vitro translated product was about 2000 daltons larger than both the authentic glutelin precursor and the in vitro translated product from polysome run-off synthesis. Western blot analysis of the 34 to 37 kD and 21 to 22 kD polypeptides partially digested with Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease revealed distinct patterns indicating that these proteins are structurally unrelated. As observed for the glutelins, the rice prolamines are also synthesized as a precursor of 16 kD, 2000 daltons larger than the mature polypeptide. Addition of dog pancreatic microsomal membranes to a wheat germ protein translation system resulted in the processing of the prolamine preprotein but not the preproglutelin to the mature form.
16665000	The level of gibberellin(GA)-like material in cotyledons of soybean (Glycine max L.) was highest at mid-pod fill-about 10 nanograms GA(3) equivalents per gram fresh weight of tissue, assayed in the immersion dwarf rice bioassay. This amount is about 1000-fold less than levels in Pisum and Phaseolus seed, other legume species whose spectrum of endogenous gibberellins (GAs) is well known. The metabolism of [(14)C]-GA(12)-7-aldehyde (GA(12)ald)-the universal GA precursor-by intact, mid-pod-fill, soybean cotyledons and their cell-free extracts was investigated. In 4 hours, extracts converted GA(12)ald to two products-[(14)C]GA(12) (42% yield) and [(14)C]GA(15) (7%). Within 5 minutes, intact embryos converted GA(12)ald to [(14)C]GA(12) and [(14)C]GA(15) in 15% yield; 4 hour incubations afforded at least 22 products (96% total yield). The putative [(14)C]GA(12) was identified as a product of [(14)C]GA(12)ald metabolism on the basis of co-chromatography with authentic GA(12) on a series of reversed and normal phase high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and thin-layer chromatography (TLC) systems, and by a dual feed of the putative [(14)C]GA(12) and authentic [(14)C]GA(12) to cotyledons of both peas and soybeans. The [(14)C]GA(15) was identified as a metabolite of [(14)C]GA(12)ald by capillary gas chromatography (GC)-mass-spectrometry-selected ion monitoring, GC-radiocounting, HPLC, and TLC. By adding the [(14)C] metabolites of [(14)C]GA(12)ald to a different and larger extract (about 0.2 kg fresh weight of soybean reproductive tissue) and purifying endogenous substances co-chromatographing with these metabolites, at least two GA-like substances were obtained and one identified as GA(7) by GC-mass spectrometry. Since [(14)C]GA(9) was not found as a [(14)C]metabolite of [(14)C]GA(12)ald, soybean embryos might have a pathway for biosynthesis of active, C-19 gibberellins like that of the cucurbits; GA(12)ald --> GA(12) --> GA(15) --> GA(24) --> GA(36) --> GA(4) --> GA(7).
16665017	Gibberellins (GA) A(1), A(19), and A(20) were identified in shoot cylinders containing the apical meristems from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.). Extracts were purified by sequential SiO(2) partition chromatography and reversed-phase C(18) high performance liquid chromatography and biologically active (dwarf rice cv Tan-ginbozu microdrop assay) fractions were subjected to gas chromatography-selected ion monitoring. Based on the use of [(3)H]GA and [(2)H](d(2))GA internal standards, amounts of GA(1), GA(19), and GA(20) were estimated to be 0.7, 8.8, and 1.5 namograms per gram dry weight of tissue, respectively.
16665161	Exposure of fresh scutella excised from 4-day-old rice seedlings to higher temperatures, (40-42 degrees C), drastically reduced the biosynthesis of alpha-amylase as determined by the incorporation of [(35)S]methionine into the immunoprecipitable product. However, the intracellular transport and extracellular secretion of the enzyme molecules were enhanced at high temperatures, indicating that the biosynthesis and secretion of alpha-amylase are distinguishable in their temperature dependency. At the higher temperature regime (>==40 degrees C), the complex-type alpha-amylase isoform, resistant to hydrolytic digestion by endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H (Endo-beta-H) was predominantly secreted, whereas at lower temperatures (<==15 degrees C), the isoform susceptible to Endo-beta-H attack was the major molecular form secreted.
16665262	The phosphorylation of thylakoid proteins of rice (Oryza sativa L.) was studied in vitro using [gamma-(32)P]ATP. Several thylakoid proteins are labeled, including the light-harvesting complex of photosystem II. Protein phosphorylation is sensitive to temperature, pH, and ADP, ATP, and divalent cation concentrations. In the range pH 7 to 8.2, phosphorylation of the light-harvesting polypeptides declines above pH 7.5, whereas labeling of several other thylakoid polypeptides increases. Increasing divalent cation concentration from 3 to 20 millimolar results in a decrease in phosphorylation of the 26 kilodalton light-harvesting complex polypeptide and increased phosphorylation of several other polypeptides. ADP has an inhibitory effect on the phosphorylation of the light-harvesting complex polypeptides. Phosphorylation of the 26 kilodalton light-harvesting polypeptide requires 0.45 millimolar ATP for half-maximal phosphorylation, compared to 0.3 millimolar for the 32 kilodalton phosphoprotein. Low temperature inhibits the phosphorylation of thylakoid proteins in chilling-sensitive rice. However, phosphorylation of histones by thylakoid-bound kinase(s) is independent of temperature in the range of 25 to 5 degrees C, suggesting that the effect of low temperature is on accessibility of the substrate, rather than on the activity of the kinase.
16665362	The effects of 3-deoxygibberellin C (DGC) on the growth-promoting actions of gibberellins A(1), A(2), A(3), A(4), A(5), A(7), A(8), A(9), A(13), A(18), A(19), A(20), and A(23) (GAn) as well as 13-deoxygibberellin A(5) (deoxy-GA(5)) were tested with seedlings of gibberellin-deficient dwarf mutants (d(2) and d(5)) of maize (Zea mays L.). It was found that DGC promoted the actions of gibberellins having both C-1 double bond and C-3 axial hydroxyl group, and it inhibited the action of gibberellins having the saturated ring A and lacking the C-3 axial hydroxyl group, whereas it did not affect that of the ones having the hydroxyl group. The presence of C-2 double bond, as in GA(5) and deoxy-GA(5), diminished the inhibitory action of DGC. The DGC inhibition was alleviated by raising the doses of the relevant GAs, suggesting that it is a competitive inhibition. These results and the finding that the growth of normal maize and rice seedlings are inhibited by DGC indicate that GA(9), GA(19), GA(20) or other gibberellins having ring A of the same structure are involved in the growth of these plants as active form(s) or as intermediate(s) leading to the active form(s).
16665431	Inasmuch as the activity of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase cannot be measured in homogenates of deepwater rice internodes (Oryza sativa L.), we have employed an in vivo assay to determine the activity of this enzyme. This assay is based on the accumulation of ACC in tissue kept under N(2). Submergence of whole plants or stem sections containing the uppermost, developing internode enhances the in vivo activity of ACC synthase in the stem. This stimulation of in vivo ACC-synthase activity is especially pronounced in the region of the internode containing the intercalary meristem and the elongation zone above it. Enhancement of in vivo ACC-synthase activity is evident after 2 hours of submergence and shows a peak after 4 hours. Reduced levels of atmospheric O(2), which promote ethylene synthesis and growth in internodes of deepwater rice, also enhance the in vivo activity of ACC synthase. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that induction of ACC-synthase activity at low partial O(2) pressures is among the first biochemical events leading to internodal growth in deepwater rice.
16665450	Partial submergence of deepwater rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Habiganj Aman II) elicits three responses: enhancement of internodal elongation, inhibition of leaf growth, and promotion of adventitious root formation. All three responses can be induced in isolated stem sections by treatment with ethylene. Dose-response curves indicate that the responses are linearly related to the logarithm of the ethylene concentration over two orders of magnitude. Application of the cyclic olefin 2,5-norbornadiene (NBD) to ethylene-treated sections results in a parallel shift in dose-response curves to higher ethylene concentrations, indicating that NBD behaves as a competitive inhibitor of ethylene action. Internodal elongation of stem sections is promoted by gibberellic acid (GA(3)) in the absence of exogenous ethylene. Endogenous ethylene levels do not increase in GA(3)-treated sections, and application of NBD does not prevent GA(3)-promoted elongation. To the contrary, NBD treatment results in increased growth at intermediate GA(3) concentrations. These results support the idea that ethylene acts through endogenous GA in promoting growth in deepwater rice. NBD applied to GA(3)-treated stem sections results in increased ethylene production. This enhancement of ethylene formation is reversed by application of either ethylene or propylene, indicating that ethylene biosynthesis in rice internodes is under negative feedback control.
16665470	Experiments were designed to test whether variation in percent lysine in seed proteins could be recovered in plants regenerated from callus subjected to inhibitory levels of lysine plus threonine. Anther-derived callus was subjected to 1 millimolar lysine plus threonine for three successive passages and then once to the same concentration of S-(2-aminoethyl)cysteine. Plants were regenerated from the resistant callus. Plants recovered directly from tissue culture were normal in color, size and were 50% or less fertile. Second and third generation plants produced a wide range of variants including albinos, deep green plants both short and tall, and totally fertile as well as partially fertile plants. All regenerated plants produced chalky or opaque seed. One unique second generation line had 14% more lysine in seed storage proteins than the controls. This characteristic was transmitted to the next generation. The high lysine plants had reduced seed size with significantly higher levels of seed storage protein than the controls. The phenotypes recovered provide experimental materials for basic studies in protein synthesis and lysine metabolism and may become a source of material for rice breeding.
16665478	The metabolism of lipids, like that of other components, was adversely and strongly affected when rice (Oryza sativa L.) coleoptiles were grown anaerobically. In aerobic coleoptiles, the amounts of total fatty acid, phospholipid, and total lipid per coleoptile increased by 2.5- to 3-fold between days three and seven, whereas under anoxia, the increases were all less than 60%. The total amount of lipid at day seven in anoxia was less than 30% of that in air. In air, the total fatty acid content at day three was 25 nanomoles per coleoptile and this increased to over 71 nanomoles per coleoptile at day seven. All acids except 18:0 showed substantial increases. In anoxia, the corresponding values for total fatty acids were 24 nanomoles and 27 nanomoles. The small increases were confined to the saturated fatty acids; no significant increase occurred in unsaturated fatty acids. A minor fatty acid constituent (16:1) increased from 0.09 to 1.99 nanomoles per coleoptile between days three and seven in air. This component was never observed in any fatty acid preparation from anaerobic coleoptiles. The major phospholipids under all conditions were phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylinositol, and phosphatidic acid. A small amount of unidentified phosphoester, not present on thin layer chromatography plates from aerobic coleoptiles, was seen in extracts of anaerobic coleoptiles. The fatty acyl substituents of each of the phospholipids were analyzed at days three and seven in coleoptiles grown aerobically and in anoxia. Each phospholipid had its own distinctive fatty acid composition which remained fairly constant under all treatments; 16:0 and 18:2 were the most abundant fatty acids in every phospholipid class. In air, the percentages of total fatty acids that were in the phospholipids were 86% on day three and 87% on day seven. In anoxia, the values at the corresponding ages were 47 and 57%. Since no net synthesis of unsaturated fatty acids occurred in anaerobic conditions, the small increase in total unsaturated acids in the phospholipids between days three and seven must have occurred at the expense of fatty acids preexisting in the neutral lipid. No unusual pathways of biosynthesis or unusual precursors are required to explain the presence of unsaturated fatty acids in the rice coleoptile. The present study and results of experiments where coleoptiles were fed [(14)C]acetate (BB Vartapetian et al. 1978 Plant Sci Lett 13:321-328) clearly show that unsaturated fatty acid synthesis in rice coleoptiles requires O(2), as it does in other plants.
16665509	The weak acid character of many previously identified, but otherwise chemically dissimilar, dormancy-breaking compounds may contribute to their physiological activity. To test this idea, short chain monocarboxylic acids of one to six carbons, for which no previous reports of such activity exist, were incubated with dormant, dehulled red rice (Oryza sativa) seeds. Greater than 90% germination was observed after 24 hours of imbibition with 19 millimolar formic, 53 millimolar acetic, 20 millimolar propionic, 28 millimolar butyric, 20 millimolar valeric, or 16 millimolar caproic acid followed by 7 to 14 days incubation on water at 30 degrees C. Dormancy-breaking activity was pH-dependent. Incubation medium pH values that favored formation of the protonated species resulted in the highest germination percentages. There was no promotive effect of medium pH itself in the range of 3 to 7. In contrast, germination of intact seeds was less than 40% in the presence of 55 millimolar monocarboxylic acids at pH 3, unless seeds were partially dry-afterripened. The pH-dependent activity of these acids was maintained during afterripening of intact seeds. The results are consistent with the idea that the dissociable proton of weak acids is responsible for their dormancy-breaking activity. Many other weak acids may break seed dormancy but have been over-looked due to the rigid pH dependence necessary for activity.
16665553	Heat shock of living tissue induces the synthesis of a unique group of proteins, the heat shock proteins. In plants, the major group of heat shock proteins has a molecular mass of 15 to 25 kilodaltons. Accumulation of these proteins to stainable levels has been reported in only a few species. To examine accumulation of the low molecular weight heat shock proteins in a broader range of species, two-dimensional electrophoresis was used to resolve total protein from the following species: soybean (Glycine max L. Merr., var Wayne), pea (Pisum sativum L., var Early Alaska), sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.), wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), rice (Oryza sativa L., cv IR-36), maize (Zea mays L.), pearl millet (Pennisetum americanum L. Leeke, line 23DB), and Panicum miliaceum L. When identified by both silver staining and incorporation of radiolabel, a diverse array of low molecular weight heat shock proteins was synthesized in each of these species. These proteins accumulated to significant levels after three hours of heat shock but exhibited considerable heterogeneity in isoelectric point, molecular weight, stainability, and radiolabel incorporation. Although most appeared to be synthesized only during heat shock, some were detectable at low levels in control tissue. Compared to the monocots, a higher proportion of low molecular weight heat shock proteins was detectable in control tissues from dicots.
16665563	The biological activity of the synthetic gibberellin agonist AC-94,377 (1-[3-chlorophthalimido]-cyclohexanecarboxamide) in certain plants is strictly dependent on the site of application. Root application of AC-94,377 at concentrations greater than or equal to 1 micromolar to seedlings of dwarf corn (Zea mays L. var d(5)), dwarf rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Tan-ginbozu), and sunflower (Helianthus annuus L. cv NK265) seedlings resulted in readily measurable gibberellin-like biological activity. Application of up to 10 micrograms of AC-94,377 to the shoots of these same species had no effect. AC-94,377 was metabolized to more polar products in both dwarf corn and sunflower seedlings. After 4 days of continuous root treatment with [(14)C]AC-94,377, greater than 70% of the recovered (14)C was found in the form of unmetabolized AC-94,377. In contrast, only 30 to 40% of the recovered (14)C was unmetabolized 4 days after shoot treatment. Translocation studies demonstrated that the movement of [(14)C]AC-94,377 was limited and occurred almost exclusively in an apoplastic fashion. Four days after leaf treatment, less than 1.5% (corn) or 4% (sunflower) of the recovered radioactivity had moved away from the treated area. It was concluded that the lack of biological activity of AC-94,377 following shoot treatment resulted principally from limited phloem mobility and to a lesser extent from accelerated metabolic breakdown.
16665564	Introns in the cytochrome oxidase subunit II (COXII) gene of plant mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) have been observed only in monocots. The COXII genes in dicots investigated to date do not contain introns. This is the first report of an intron in the COXII gene of a dicot. The presence of an intron in the carrot COXII intron was verified by restriction mapping and hybridization using specific maize and wheat COXII probes. Regions of the carrot COXII intron are homologous to the maize COXII intron and homologous to the wheat COXII intron-insert as demonstrated by hybridization. Homology of these regions was confirmed by sequencing portions of the gene. A comparison of the restriction map of the carrot COXII gene with the restriction maps of the COXII genes from pea, Oenothera, maize, wheat, and rice revealed that the carrot map coincides with the rice restriction map.
16665745	Oilseed rape (Brassica napus, canola variety ;Westar') plants were grown in greenhouse conditions and shoots were harvested during the final stages of shoot elongation. Leaves and immature pods were removed and the remaining stem tissue was extracted and purified. The extract was chromatographed on sequential, step-eluted silica gel partition and reverse-phase C(18) HPLC columns, and gibberellin (GA)-like substances were detected using the ;Tan-ginbozu' dwarf rice microdrop assay. Purified fractions showing GA-like activity were analyzed by capillary gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and GC-selected ion monitoring (GC-SIM). Gibberellins A(1), A(3), and iso-A(3) were identified by full spectrum GC-MS with GA(1) being the most abundant GA in the stem tissue. Gibberellins A(19) and A(20) were identified by GC-SIM and are logical precursors of the GA(1).
16665818	Carbon isotope ratios of mature leaves from the C(3) angiosperm root hemiparasites Striga hermonthica (Del.) Benth (-26.7 per thousand) and S. asiatica (L.) Kuntze (-25.6 per thousand) were more negative than their C(4) host, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench cv CSH1), (-13.5 per thousand). However, in young photosynthetically incompetent plants of S. hermonthica this difference was reduced to less than 1 per thousand. Differences between the carbon isotope ratios of two C(3)-C(3) associations, S. gesnerioides (Willd.) Vatke-Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. and Oryza sativa L.-Rhamphicarpa fistulosa (Hochst.) Benth differed by less than 1 per thousand. Theoretical carbon isotope ratios for mature leaves of S. hermonthica and S. asiatica, calculated from foliar gas exchange measurements, were -31.8 and -32.0 per thousand, respectively. This difference between the measured and theoretical delta(13)C-values of 5 to 6 per thousand suggests that even in mature, photosynthetically active plants, there is substantial input of carbon from the C(4) host. We estimate this to be approximately 28% of the total carbon in S. hermonthica and 35% in S. asiatica. This level of carbon transfer contributes to the host's growth reductions observed in Striga-infected sorghum.
16665836	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) from several C(3) plants was compared to maize PEPC by immunoblotting using an antibody against maize PEPC and by peptide mapping. In C(3) gramineous plants, PEPCs of slightly different monomeric sizes were detected as two bands for wheat and barley leaves, as three bands for etiolated maize leaves and as four bands for rice leaves by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting, whereas only one PEPC band was detected for maize leaves, a C(4) plant, or tobacco leaves, a dicotyledonous C(3) plant. The peptide fragment patterns of the lower molecular weight PEPC (major band in immunoblotting) in wheat leaves was similar to that of maize PEPC in peptide mapping by protein staining or by immunological detection, but the upper one (minor band) had a different pattern from the lower one in peptide mapping by immunological detection and few peptide fragments from this were recognized by the anti-(maize) PEPC antibody. These results suggest that there are multiple forms of PEPC subunits in the gramineous plants tested, and the major PEPC has a primary structure similar to that of maize PEPC. To obtain information about the expression of PEPCs in C(3) plants, changes in the amount of PEPC protein were investigated during the greening of rice and wheat seedlings. Judging from the regulation by light, there were two types of PEPCs in greening rice seedlings, one induced by light and the other reduced by it. Greening wheat seedlings also show a PEPC band induced by light. These findings indicate that some PEPCs in C(3) gramineous plants not only have structures similar to that of maize PEPC, but also are regulated by light in a similar manner.
16666023	Respiratory activities were compared among rice seedlings germinated in air for 6 days (aerobic seedlings), those germinated under water for 5 days (submerged seedlings), and those grown in air for 1 day after 5 days' submerged germination (air-adapted seedlings). The respiratory activity of the submerged seedlings increased rapidly on transfer to air and reached a plateau at 16 hours in air. Respiration of the submerged seedlings was as sensitive to cyanide as those of aerobic and air-adapted seedlings. 2,4-Dinitrophenol had no effect on the respiration of the submerged seedlings, but stimulated those of the other two types of seedlings. Mitochondria from three types of seedlings did not differ in the ADP/O ratio and the respiratory control ratio (RCR) when succinate was oxidized. However, mitochondria from submerged seedlings (submerged mitochondria) showed poor RCR of about unity when malate was oxidized. Both the rate of succinate oxidation and succinate dehydrogenase activity were low in submerged mitochondria, but increased during air adaptation. Although submerged mitochondria oxidized malate very slowly, this activity increased after exposure to air without any increase in malate dehydrogenase activity. When NAD(+) was added to submerged mitochondria, oxidation of malate was restored to the level of the aerobic controls. Addition of NAD(+) enhanced the state 3 rate in submerged mitochondria, and RCR recovered to nearly the same value as that of the aerobic controls. Similar effects of NAD(+) on 2-oxoglutarate oxidation were observed. All these defects in submerged mitochondria were repaired during air adaptation. These results suggest that NAD(+)-linked substrate oxidation was low in submerged mitochondria because of NAD(+) deficiency, and that the oxidation increased with an increasing level of NAD(+) during air adaptation.
16666210	We have isolated full-length cDNA clones that encode oat (Avena sativa) seed storage globulin mRNAs from a cDNA library in the expression vector lambda gtll. The longest of these clones, pOG2, has an 1840-base pair insert that encodes a complete precursor subunit with a signal peptide of 24 amino acids followed by an acidic polypeptide of 293 amino acids and a basic polypeptide of 201 amino acids. Near the C terminus of the acidic polypeptide are four repeats of a highly conserved, glutamine-rich octapeptide. Other oat globulin cDNA clones contain five of these repeats. Nucleotide sequence comparisons between these clones indicate that the genes encoding these proteins are highly conserved. We estimate there to be 7 to 10 genes for the oat globulin per haploid genome. Comparisons of amino acid sequences show that the oat globulin is 30 to 40% homologous with storage globulins of legumes and about 70% homologous with the rice seed storage globulin (glutelin).
16666223	Elongating shoots of rapidly growing clones of Salix viminalis L. (clone 683-4) and Salix dasyclados Wimm. (clone 908) harvested in early August were analyzed for endogenous gibberellins (GA). Distribution of GA-like activity, determined by Tan-ginbozu dwarf rice microdrop bioassay after reverse phase C(18) high performance chromatography, was similar for both species. For S. dasyclados, combined gas chromatography-selected ion monotoring (GC-SIM) yielded identifications of GA(1), GA(8), GA(19), GA(20), and GA(29). Identifications of GA(4) and GA(9) were also made using co-injections of known amounts of [17, 17-(2)H(2)]GAs. By bioassay, the main activity was GA(19)-like in both species. Gibberellin A(1), GA(19), and GA(20) concentrations were approximated by GC-SIM using co-injections of known amounts of [17,17-(2)H(2)]GAs. Both bioassay and GC-SIM results indicated very high concentrations of GA(19) and GA(20) (about 6000 nanograms per kilogram fresh weight shoot tissue using GC-SIM: 800 ng using bioassay), compared to the concentration of GA(1) (about 130 nanograms per kilogram fresh weight using either GC-SIM or bioassay).
16666273	Callus cells of rice (Oryza sativa L.) that were actively dividing in suspension culture had lost the ability to divide during the isolation process of protoplasts. Factors influencing the protoplast viability were examined using highly purified preparations of cellulase C(1), xylanase, and pectin lyase, which were essential enzymes for the isolation of protoplasts from the rice cells. The treatment of the cells with xylanase and pectin lyase, both of which are macerating enzymes, caused cellular damage. Xylanase treatment was more detrimental to the cells. Osmotic stress, cell wall fragments solubilized by xylanase, and disassembly of cortical microtubules were not the primary factors which damaged the rice cells and protoplasts. The addition of AgNO(3), an inhibitor of ethylene action, to the protoplast isolation medium increased the number of colonies formed from the cultured protoplasts, although the yield of protoplasts was reduced by the addition. Superoxide radical (O(2)-) was generated from the cells treated with xylanase or pectin lyase. The addition of superoxide dismutase and catalase to the protoplast isolation medium resulted in a marked improvement in protoplast viability especially when the non-additive control protoplasts formed colonies with a low frequency. The addition of glutathione peroxidase and phospholipase A(2), which have been known to reduce and detoxify lipid hydroperoxides in membranes, to the protoplast culture medium significantly increased the frequency of colony formation. These results suggested that some of the damage to rice protoplasts may be caused by oxygen toxicity.
16666308	Partial submergence induces rapid internodal elongation in deepwater rice (Oryza sativa L., cv Habiganj Aman II). We measured in vivo extensibility, tissue tension, hydraulic conductance and osmotic potential in the region of cell elongation in the uppermost internode. The in vivo extensibility of the internode, measured by stretching of living tissue with a custom-made constant stress extensiometer, rose rapidly following submergence of the plant. Both the elastic (E(el)) and plastic (E(pl)) extensibility increased when growth of the internode was induced. The submerged internode displayed tissue tension (elastic outward bending of longitudinally split internode sections); in air-grown control internodes, no such bending occurred. The hydraulic conductance, estimated from the kinetics of tissue shrinkage in 0.5 molar mannitol and subsequent swelling in distilled water, was not changed by submergence. The osmotic potential, measured with a dew-point hygrometer using frozen-thawed tissue, was only 18% less negative in the submerged internode than in the air-grown control. This indicates that osmoregulation takes place in rapidly elongating rice internodes. We suggest that the rapid expansion of the newly formed internodal cells of submerged plants is controlled by the yielding properties (E(pl)) of the cell walls. Experiments with excised stem sections indicate that gibberellin is involved in increasing the E(pl) of the elongating cell walls.
16666363	By screening two rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed cDNA libraries, recombinant cDNA clones encoding the rice prolamine seed storage protein were isolated. Based on cross-hybridization and restriction enzyme map analyses, these clones can be divided into two homology classes. All clones contain a single open reading frame encoding a putative rice prolamine precursor (molecular weight = 17,200) possessing a typical 14-amino acid signal peptide. The deduced primary structures of both types of prolamine polypeptides are devoid of repetitive sequences, a feature prevalent in other cereal prolamines. Clones of these two homology classes diverge mainly by insertions/deletions of short nucleotide stretches and point mutations. An isolated genomic clone about 15.5 kilobases in length displays a highly conserved 2.5-kilobase EcoRI fragment, repeated in tandem four times, each containing the prolamine coding sequence. Close homology is exhibited by the coding segments of the genomic and cDNA sequences, although the 5' ends of the untranslated regions are widely divergent. The sequence heterogeneity displayed by these genomic and cDNA clones and large gene copy number (approximately 80-100 copies/haploid genome) indicate that the rice prolamines are encoded by a complex multigene family.
16666524	Greenhouse-grown oilseed rape (Brassica napus, annual Canola variety ;Westar') plants were harvested at six dates from the vegetative phase until the early pod (silique)-fill/late flowering stage. Endogenous gibberellin (GA)-like substances were extracted from stems, purified, and chromatographed on silica gel partition columns prior to bioassay in serial dilution using the ;Tan-ginbozu' dwarf rice microdrop assay. The concentrations of total endogenous GA-like substances were low during vegetative stages (1 nanogram GA(3) equivalents/gram dry weight), and rose 300-fold by the time of floral initiation. After floral initiation the concentration of GA-like substances fell, then rose again during bolting to maximal levels during the early pod-fill stage (940 nanograms per gram dry weight). The qualitative profiles of GA-like substances varied across harvests, with higher proportions of a GA(1)-like substance at the early pod-fill stage. In a second study stems were similarly harvested at eight dates and the concentrations of endogenous GA(1), the principal bioactive native GA of oilseed rape, were determined by gas chromatography-selected ion monitoring using [17,17-(2)H]GA(1) as a quantitative internal standard. The concentration of GA(1) increased at about the time of floral initiation and then subsequently fell, thus confirming the pattern noted above for total GA-like substances. The exogenous application of paclobutrazol (PP333), a persistent triazole plant growth regulator (PGR) which blocks GA biosynthesis, or another triazole, triapenthenol (RSW0411), prevented flowering as well as bolting; plants remained at the vegetative rosette stage. These results imply a causal role for endogenous GA, in the control of bolting, which normally precedes anthesis. Further, the rise in the concentration of total endogenous GA-like substances, including GA(1), which was associated with floral initiation, and the prevention of visable floral development by the triazole PGRs, also indicates a role for endogenous GAs in the regulation of flowering in B. napus.
16666569	A single-gene mutant (rosette [ros/ros]) in which shoot growth and development are inhibited was identified from a rapid cycling line of Brassica rapa (syn campestris). Relative to normal plants, the mutant germinated slowly, had delayed or incomplete floral development, and reduced leaf, petiole, and internode growth. The exogenous application of GA(3) by foliar spray or directly to the shoot tip of rosette resulted in rapid flowering, bolting (shoot elongation), and viable seed production. Shoots of rosette contained endogenous levels of total gibberellin (GA)-like substances (;Tan-ginbozu' dwarf rice assay) of about one-tenth of that of the normal rapid-cycling line of B. rapa which consisted almost entirely of a very nonpolar, GA-like substance which yielded GA(1) and GA(3) upon mild acid hydrolysis. In a normal rapid-cycling B. rapa line, the nonpolar putative GA(1) and GA(3) conjugates were present, but additionally, free GA(1) and GA(3) were abundant and identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-selected ion monitoring. The quantities of free GA(1) and GA(3) in the normal line and in rosette were quantified by GC-MS-SIM using [(2)H(2)]GA(1) as an internal standard. Fourteen-day-old rosette and normal seedlings contained 5.3 and 23.2 ng GA(1) per plant, respectively. At day 21 the rosette plants contained 7.7 and 26.1 nanograms per plant of GA(1) and GA(3), while normal plants contained 31.1 and 251.5 nanograms per plant, respectively. Thus, normal plants contained from four to ten times higher levels of total GA-like substances, GA(1), or GA(3), than rosette. The ros allele results in reduced GA level, yielding the rosette phenotype whose delayed germination and flowering, and reduced shoot growth responses indicate a probable role for endogenous GA(1) and GA(3) in the regulation of these processes in Brassica.
16666635	Many chemically dissimilar substances break dormancy of seeds, but the relationship between chemical structure and physiological activity is unknown. In this study, the concentrations of organic acids, esters, aldehydes, alcohols, and inorganic weak acids required to elicit 50% germination of initially dormant, dehulled red rice seeds (Oryza sativa) were determined. The activity of most substances was very highly and inversely correlated to lipophilicity as measured by octanol/water partition coefficients; chemicals with the highest partition coefficients required the lowest concentrations to elicit the germination response. Relative efficacy was also dependent upon the functional group; generally, monocarboxylic acids were more effective than aldehydes, esters, hydroxyacids, and alcohols. Relative hydrophobicity plots supported a modulating role of the functional group. Dormancy-breaking activity of methyl formate, formic acid, nitrite, azide, and cyanide was higher than predicted based on lipophilicity and apparently was related to molecular size; compounds with smaller molecular widths were required at lower concentrations to achieve the 50% germination response.
16666638	Most rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars grown in the United States were selected for endosperm starch properties and not soluble sugar content. The minor pool of soluble sugar may affect the qualities of rice as a food. Some cultivar variation in soluble sugar content was detected in milled grain, essentially the starchy endosperm, of long grain varieties. Milled grain of cultivars Lemont and Texmati had a soluble sugar content of 0.21 and 0.35% (w/w), respectively, on a fresh weight basis. The dorsal portion of the milled grain contained the greatest amount of soluble sugar, approximately tenfold the amount found in the central core of the grain. Extracts of the milled grain contained sucrose-phosphate synthase (EC 2.4.1.14) and sucrose synthase (EC 2.4.1.13) activities, which were separated by anion exchange chromatography. The presence of sucrose-phosphate synthase in the rice endosperm suggested a mechanism for sucrose accumulation which might be involved in carbon partitioning during grain development.
16666698	Scutella separated from germinating grains of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), rice (Oryza sativa L.), and maize (Zea mays L.) took up the four amino acids and the three peptides tested from incubation media. The uptake of amino acids by wheat scutella was similar to that of barley scutella and was via at least four uptake systems: two nonspecific amino acid uptake systems, one system specific for proline, and another system specific for basic amino acids. The scutellum of rice apparently has two nonspecific systems and a system specific for the basic amino acids, but the proline-specific system is lacking. The scutellum of maize seems to have the same systems as the scutellum of rice, but one (or both) of the nonspecific systems differs from that of the other species studied in taking up arginine only slowly. No great differences were observed in the uptake of peptides in the four species studied. The rates of uptake of different amino acids and peptides were of the same order of magnitude in the four cereals. The fact that carboxypeptidase activities in the endosperms of wheat and barley are 20-to 100-fold higher than those in rice and maize, does thus not seem to be reflected in the uptake properties of the scutella.
16666739	A variety of expression systems and selection rgimes have been developed to transform plants such as tobacco, petunia, and tomato. We investigated several of these to determine whether the promoters and selectable markers used in dicotyledonous plants are suitable for selecting transformed rice callus. We compared transient expression driven by constitutive and regulated promoters in rice (Oryza sativa) protoplasts and found that the 2' promoter of the octopine T-DNA is approximately 3 to 4 times more efficient than the CAMV 35S promoter, 10 times more efficient than the nos promoter and the 1' promoter, and more than 100 times better than two other regulated plant promoters. Similar results were obtained in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) protoplasts with the exception that the nos promoter was expressed nearly 10 times better in rice. Further studies demonstrated that rice callus growth is sensitive to low concentrations of methotrexate, phosphinothricin, and bleomycin, and to moderate concentrations of G418 and hygromycin, but is only partially inhibited by relatively high concentrations of kanamycin. Finally, we tested the ability of stably introduced resistance genes to protect callus against some of the selective agents. Genes that inactivated phosphinothricin or G418 permitted transformed calli to grow almost unimpeded on toxic concentrations of these selective agents. However, a gene conferring resistance to methotrexate could not be used to select for activily growing transformants. Southern analysis of the transformed cell lines demonstrated that 50% of the transformants contained a single plasmid copy and that nearly all integrated copies showed rearrangements. These results on the use of selectable markers in rice should facilitate efforts to obtain transformants of this important grain.
16666751	Anaerobically treated seedlings of Oryza sativa L. var arborio accumulated in their shoots more succinate than lactate and cell sap became alkaline. Conversely, in Triticum aestivum L. var MEK 86 lactate accumulation was far higher than that of succinate and cell sap was acidified. Anoxia clearly induced proton consumption in both species as an important means to prevent or counteract acidosis. Other species studied were: Echinochloa crus-galli L. Beauv., Zea mays L. var De Kalb XL75, Secale cereale L. var primizia and Hordeum vulgare L. var rondo. Changes in cell sap pH and succinate to lactate ratios distinguished resistant from nonresistant species.
16666971	Photoinhibition resulting from exposure at 7 degrees C to a moderate photon flux density (300 micromoles per square meter per second, 400-700 nanometers) for 20 hours was measured in leaves of annual crops differing widely in chilling tolerance. The incidence of photoinhibition, determined as the decrease in the ratio of induced to total chlorophyll fluorescence emission at 693 nanometers (F(v)/F(max)) measured at 77 Kelvin, was not confined to chilling-sensitive species. The extent of photoinhibition in leaves of all chilling-resistant plants tested (barley [Hordeum vulgare L.], broad bean [Vicia faba L.], pea [Pisum sativum L.], and wheat [Triticum aestivum L.]) was about half of that measured in chilling-sensitive plants (bean [Phaseolus vulgaris L.], cucumber [Cucumis sativus L.], lablab [Lablab purpureus L.], maize [Zea mays L.], pearl millet [Pennisetum typhoides (Burm. f.) Stapf & Hubbard], pigeon pea [Cajanus cajun (L.) Millsp.], sesame [Sesamum indicum L.], sorghum [Sorghum bicolor L. Moench], and tomato [Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.]). Rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves of the indica type were more susceptible to photoinhibition at 7 degrees C than leaves of the japonica type. Photoinhibition was dependent both on temperature and light, increasing nonlinearly with decreasing temperature and linearly with increasing light intensity. In contrast to photoinhibition during chilling, large differences, up to 166-fold, were found in the relative susceptibility of the different species to chilling injury in the dark. It was concluded that chilling temperatures increased the likelihood of photoinhibition in leaves of both chilling-sensitive and -resistant plants. Further, while the photoinhibition during chilling generally occurred more rapidly in chilling-sensitive plants, this was not related directly to chilling sensitivity.
16667061	The effect of NaCl on the endogenous levels of diamine, putrescine and polyamines, spermidine and spermine, was studied in the shoot system of salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive lines of rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars during three growth stages. Salt stress increased the levels of diamine and polyamine in varying degrees among nine rice cultivars investigated. Salt tolerant AU1, Co43, and CSC1 were effective in maintaining high concentrations of spermidine and spermine, while the content of putrescine was not significantly altered in all the growth stages when plants were exposed to salinity. The salt sensitivity in rice was associated with excessive accumulation of putrescine and with low levels of spermidine and spermine in the shoot system of salt-sensitive cultivars Co36, CSC2, GR3, IR20, TKM4, and TKM9 under saline condition. One of the possible mechanisms of saline resistance was observed to be due to the highly increased polyamines against the low increase in diamines. Alternatively, the salt sensitivity could be due to high increase of diamines and an incapacity to maintain high levels of polyamines.
16667078	A highly sensitive radioimmunoassay has been used to determine the levels of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) in five higher plants (Lactuca sativa, Helianthus annuus, Oryza sativa, Pinus pinaster, Nicotiana tabacum). Particular attention was paid to the three main sources of errors in the characterization of cAMP in plants: presence of interfering substances in plant tissues; possible artefactual formation of cAMP from endogenous ATP during extraction, purification, and assay; and microbial origin of cAMP. In all the tested tissues, the cAMP level was below the detection limit of 0.5 picomole per gram fresh weight, a value much lower than those reported for similar materials of the same species in many previous studies. This result is not in favor of cAMP-dependent regulations in higher plants.
16667132	Incubation of 3-d-old seedlings of Oryza sativa L. cv Arborio under anaerobic conditions, leads to a large increase in the titer of free putrescine while aerobic incubation causes a slight decrease. After 2 days, the putrescine level is about 2.5 times greater without oxygen than in air. The rice coleoptile also accumulates a large amount of bound putrescine and, to a lesser extent, spermidine and spermine (mainly as acid-soluble conjugates). Accumulation of conjugates in the roots is severely inhibited by the anaerobic treatment. Feeding experiments with labeled amino acids showed that anoxia stimulates the release of (14)CO(2) from tissues fed with [(14)C]arginine and that arginine is the precursor in putrescine biosynthesis. After 2 d of anoxia, the activity of arginine decarboxylase was 42% and 89% greater in coleoptile and root, respectively, than in the aerobic condition. The causes of the differences in polyamine metabolism in anoxic coleoptiles and roots are discussed.
16667137	NaCl and KCl enhanced the degradation of chlorophylls and proteins in detached rice (Oryza sativa) leaves in a concentration-dependent manner. Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) accounted for 73 to 80% of the protein lost by day 4 in the light. NaCl at 50 millimolar increased proteolysis by 21% over the control in 4 days, but the addition of cycloheximide reduced the increase to about one-half. Cycloheximide alone had no effect on proteolytic activity during this period. Leaf segments taken from 10-day-old seedlings contained the highest proteolytic activity. Both NaCl and KCl increased the activity of Rubisco-degrading endoproteinases (the amount of ninhydrin-positive compounds measured from HCl-hydrolyzates of trichloroacetic acid-soluble supernatant), but decreased the activity of hemoglobin- and Rubisco-degrading exoproteinases (the amount of ninhydrin-positive compounds measured directly from trichloroacetic acid-soluble supernatant). Efflux of amino acids from senescing leaf segments into the incubation media increased 7- and 12-fold in the presence of KCl and NaCl, respectively. The increased efflux resulted in a negative correlation between salt concentration and amino acid content of leaf segments at the later stage of senescence. It is concluded that, in addition to the induction of new proteinase synthesis, the increased efflux of protein hydrolyzates may play a significant role in increasing proteolysis of salt-treated leaves, especially at the later stages of senescence.
16667159	The effects of cold on protein and RNA metabolism in leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings were investigated. Treatment with a diurnal cycle of 15/10 degrees C or 11/6 degrees C for up to 1 week resulted in progressive changes in the protein synthesis pattern after in vivo labeling of intact rice leaves with [(35)S]methionine. These changes were reversed when the seedlings were returned to normal growth temperatures. While de novo accumulation of several abundant proteins was suppressed, some polypeptides were consistently found to be cold-induced. Synthesis of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) was drastically reduced after 7 days of cold. Using immunoprecipitation of Rubisco, evidence was obtained that the suppression was greater for the small subunit (over 90%) than for the large subunit (80%), indicating a partial loss of coordination in their synthesis. Preformed Rubisco as well as other cold-suppressed proteins were stable for up to 7 days at 11/6 degrees C. Cold-sensitive rice cultivars responded with similar but more drastic changes in the protein synthesis pattern when compared to cold-tolerant varieties. The suppression of Rubisco synthesis by cold was shown to result from reduced levels of the mRNAs encoding both subunits; their decrease paralleled the lower protein synthesis of each. The levels of other chloroplast-encoded mRNAs, especially psaB, and of the nuclear encoded chlorophyll a/b binding protein, also strongly decreased in the cold, whereas the transcripts of the mitochondrial genes apt9, coxIII, and most nuclear genes analyzed were unaffected or only slightly reduced. These data indicate that some chloroplast functions are disturbed during cold stress. One nuclear gene known to be induced by water stress and ABA (Rab21) was also found to be induced by cold treatment.
16667278	An airgun apparatus has been constructed for transient gene expression studies of monocots. This device utilizes compressed air from a commercial airgun to propel macroprojectile and DNA-coated tungsten particles. The beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene was used to monitor transient expression in three distinct cell types of maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa), and wheat (Triticum aestivum). The highest level of GUS activity in cultured maize cells was observed when distance between stopping plate and target cells was adjusted to 4.3 centimeters. Efficiency of transformation was estimated to be 4.4 x 10(-3). In a partial vacuum of 700 millimeters Hg, velocity of macroprojectile was measured at 520 meters per second with a 6% reduction in velocity at atmospheric pressure. A polyethylene film placed in the breech before firing contributed to a 12% increase in muzzle velocity. A 700 millimeters Hg level of vacuum was necessary for maximum number of transfornants. GUS expression was also detected in wheat leaf base tissue of microdissected shoot apices. High levels of transient gene expression were also observed in hard, compact embryogenic callus of rice. These results show that the airgun apparatus is a convenient, safe, and low-cost device for rapid transient gene expression studies in cereals.
16667400	Activity of the enzyme ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase is known to be reduced in maize (Zea mays L.) endosperm mutants at two independent loci, Shrunken-2 (Sh(2)) and Brittle-2 (Bt(2)). Spinach leaf ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase has previously been shown to comprise two subunits of 51 and 54 kilodaltons. Anti-bodies raised to each of the two subunits of spinach leaf ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase were found to cross-react to different bands on Western blots prepared from polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separated wild-type maize endosperm proteins. The anti-spinach leaf 51 kilodalton subunit antibody cross-reacted with a 55 kilodalton maize endosperm protein and the anti-spinach leaf 54 kilodalton subunit antibody cross-reacted with a 60 kilodalton maize endosperm protein. These immunological reactions were observed in maize endosperm extracts and with a highly purified preparation of maize endosperm ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase. Mutant bt(2) endosperm lacked the 55 kilodalton subunit while mutant sh(2) endosperm lacked the 60 kilodalton subunit on Western blots. These results suggest that the maize endosperm ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase is made up of two immunologically dissimilar subunits and that the bt(2) and sh(2) mutations cause reduction in ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase activity through the lack of one of these two subunits. An ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase cDNA clone antigenically selected from a rice seed cDNA expression library was found to hybridize strongly with a cDNA corresponding to a maize endosperm transcript which is absent in a W64A bt(2) mutant. Thus, the bt(2) mutant causes the absence not only of the small subunit but of the corresponding transcript. Bt(2) is implicated as the structural gene for the small (54 kilodalton) subunit of maize endosperm ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase.
16667435	Flower buds of peach (Prunus persica L.) trees, cv Novedad de Cordoba (Argentina), were collected near the end of the dormant period and immediately before anthesis. After removal of scale leaves, morphological observations of representative buds, made on transverse and longitudinal microtome sections, showed that all verticils making up the flower are present in an undifferentiated form during the dormant period (June). Flower buds collected at the end of dormant period (August) showed additional growth and differentiation, at which time formation of two ovules was beginning in the unicarpelar gynoecium. Dehiscence of anthers had not yet occurred 10 days before full bloom, and the ovules were still developing. Free endogenous gibberellin (GA)-like substances were quantified by bioassay (Tan-ginbozu dwarf rice microdrop) after SiO(2) partition column chromatography, reversed phase C18-high performance liquid chromatography, and finally Nucleosil [N(CH(3))(2)]high performance liquid chromatography. Bioactive fractions were then subjected to capillary gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-selected ion monitoring (GC-MS-SIM). Gibberellins A(1), A(3), and A(8) were tentatively identified in peach flower buds using GC-SIM and Kovat's retention indices, and relative amounts approximated by GC-SIM (2:8:6 for GA(1), GA(3), and GA(8), respectively). The highest concentration (330 nanograms per gram dry weight) of free GA(1)/GA(3) was found in dormant buds (June) and diminished thereafter. The concentration free of GA(1)/GA(3) did not increase immediately prior to bud break. However, high GA(1)/GA(3) concentrations occurred during stages where rate of growth and cellular differentiation of (mainly fertile) verticils can be influenced.
16667507	Rice (Oryza sativa) seeds were imbibed for 3 days and the seedlings were further incubated for 8 days in the presence of either air or nitrogen. In aerobiosis, the specific activity of pyrophosphate:fructose 6-phosphate 1-phosphotransferase and that of the ATP-dependent phosphofructokinase increased about fourfold. In anaerobiosis, the specific activity of ATP-dependent phosphofructokinase remained stable, whereas that of pyrophosphate:fructose 6-phosphate 1-phosphotransferase increased as much as in the presence of oxygen and there was also a fourfold increase in the concentration of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate, a potent stimulator of that enzyme. These data suggest a preferential involvement of pyrophosphate:fructose 6-phosphate 1-phosphotransferase rather than of ATP-dependent phosphofructokinase in glycolysis during anaerobiosis.
16667556	The activation of H(+)-ATPase solubilized from plasma membrane of rice (Oryza sativa L. var Nipponbare) culture cells was examined by the exogenous addition of various phospholipids, free fatty acids, glycerides, polar head groups of phospholipids and molecular species of phosphatidylcholine (PC). H(+)-ATPase activity appeared to be stimulated by phospholipids in the following order: asolectin > phosphatidylserine > PC > lysophosphatidylcholine > phosphatidylglycerol, and maximal ATPase activation was noted at around 0.05 to 0.03% (w/v) of asolectin or molecular species of PC. Polar head groups such as glycerol, inositol, and serine only slightly activated ATPase activity or not at all, while ethanolamine and choline had no effect. Activation was dependent on the degree of saturation or unsaturation of the fatty acyl chain and its length. The activity decreased with increase in the length of fatty acyl chain from dimyristoryl(14:0)-PC to distearoyl(18:0)-PC and the degree of unsaturation from dioleoyl(18:1)-PC to dilinolenoyl(18:3)-PC. Maximum activation was observed when PC possessing 1-myristoyl(14:0)-2-oleoyl(18:1) or 1-oleoyl-2-myristoyl was added to the reaction mixture. These data show that the activation of plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase by PC depends on a combination of saturated (myristic acid 14:0, palmitic acid 16:0, and stearic acid 18:0) and unsaturated (oleic acid 18:1, linoleic acid 18:2, and arachidonic acid 20:4) fatty acids at the sn-1 and sn-2 positions of the triglycerides.
16667593	We have established an efficient procedure for protoplast transformation and regeneration of fertile transgenic plants of rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars Nipponbare and Taipei 309. Protoplasts were mixed with a plant-expressible hygromycin resistance gene and treated with 25% (w/v) polyethylene glycol. Stringent selection of transformed colonies was applied to 14-day-old regenerated protoplasts in the presence of 95 micromolar of hygromycin B for 12 days. After selection, 450 and 200 resistant colonies were recovered per million treated Taipei 309 and Nipponbare protoplasts, respectively. Southern hybridization analysis of hygromycin-resistant cell lines and regenerated plants indicated that 1 to 10 copies of transferred DNA were integrated at 1 to 4 loci of the rice genome. Southern DNA analysis suggests that the introduced plasmid DNA may form concatemers by intermolecular recombination prior to integration. Four Taipei 309 and 39 Nipponbare transgenic rice plants were regenerated and grown to maturity in the greenhouse. Two Taipei 309 and 35 Nipponbare plants set viable seeds. Agronomic traits of Taipei 309 transgenic plants and inheritance of the hygromycin resistance trait by progeny of the selfed transgenic plants were analyzed.
16667719	To clarify the mechanisms of methane transport from the rhizosphere into the atmosphere through rice plants (Oryza sativa L.), the methane emission rate was measured from a shoot whose roots had been kept in a culture solution with a high methane concentration or exposed to methane gas in the gas phase by using a cylindrical chamber. No clear correlation was observed between change in the transpiration rate and that in the methane emission rate. Methane was mostly released from the culm, which is an aggregation of leaf sheaths, but not from the leaf blade. Micropores which are different from stomata were newly found at the abaxial epidermis of the leaf sheath by scanning electron microscopy. The measured methane emission rate was much higher than the calculated methane emission rate that would result from transpiration and the methane concentration in the culture solution. Rice roots could absorb methane gas in the gas phase without water uptake. These results suggest that methane dissolved in the soil water surrounding the roots diffuses into the cell-wall water of the root cells, gasifies in the root cortex, and then is mostly released through the micropores in the leaf sheaths.
16667735	Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv Bannock), rice (Oryza sativa L. cv IR-36), and soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merr cv Essex) were grown in a factorial greenhouse experiment to determine if CO(2)-induced increases in photosynthesis, biomass, and yield are modified by increases in ultraviolet (UV)-B radiation corresponding to stratospheric ozone depletion. The experimental conditions simulated were: (a) an increase in CO(2) concentration from 350 to 650 microliters per liter; (b) an increase in UV-B radiation corresponding to a 10% ozone depletion at the equator; and (c) a and b in combination. Seed yield and total biomass increased significantly with elevated CO(2) in all three species when compared to the control. However, with concurrent increases in UV-B and CO(2), no increase in either seed yield (wheat and rice) or total biomass (rice) was observed with respect to the control. In contrast, CO(2)-induced increases in seed yield and total plant biomass were maintained or increased in soybean within the elevated CO(2), UV-B environment. Whole leaf gas exchange indicated a significant increase in photosynthesis, apparent quantum efficiency (AQE) and water-use-efficiency (WUE) with elevated CO(2) in all 3 species. Including elevated UV-B radiation with high CO(2) eliminated the effect of high CO(2) on photosynthesis and WUE in rice and the increase in AQE associated with high CO(2) in all species. Elevated CO(2) did not change the apparent carboxylation efficiency (ACE) in the three species although the combination of elevated CO(2) and UV-B reduced ACE in wheat and rice. The results of this experiment illustrate that increased UV-B radiation may modify CO(2)-induced increases in biomass, seed yield and photosynthetic parameters and suggest that available data may not adequately characterize the potential effect of future, simultaneous changes in CO(2) concentration and UV-B radiation.
16667853	Different parts of the rice (Oryza sativa L.) plant at different growth stages were analyzed for sucrose synthase (SS) by enzyme activity assay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay directly on the extracts or on the eluates from a gel filtration column. On a dry matter basis, the amount of soluble protein and SS activity decreased significantly, but the amount of enzyme protein changed little in growing leaves. In the grain, the SS activity was the highest at the early ripening stage and decreased later, but the amount of SS protein increased with the increase in maturity. In the root, a low activity of SS was detectable only in the tillering but not in other stages. Immunoblotting of SS protein extracted from different parts of rice showed two bands. Elution patterns of crude extracts from a gel filtration column showed the presence of several types of SS protein. Among them, two to three types with larger elution volumes had the SS activity but others with smaller elution volumes (considered as the aggregated forms) had no activity. The SS purified from different parts of the plant showed similar but distinctly different electrophoretic mobilities in a native gel. It has been concluded that different isozymes are expressed in different tissues at different growth stages.
16667906	A simple and improved dwarf rice (Oryza sativa var Tan-ginbozu) lamina inclination bioassay for brassinosteroids (BRs) was developed based on a previously published method (K Takeno, RP Pharis [1982] Plant Cell Physiol 23: 1275-1281). The assay used 3-day-old intact seedlings, and detection of BR was made more sensitive by synergizing the response to BR with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The minimum detectable amount of BR was less than 0.1 nanogram/rice plant (brassinolide equivalents). Purification steps for isolation of BR from tissue scrapings taken from the cambial region of Scots pine (Pinus silverstris) harvested during the period of rapid wood production were guided by this assay. After column chromatography (silica gel and PrepPak C(18)) and reversed phase C(18) high performance liquid chromatography, the biologically active fractions were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and/or GC-MS-selected ion monitoring. Two BRs, castasterone (major) and brassinolide (minor) were identified. This is the first identification of BR from the cambial region of a conifer.
16668037	Sucrose synthase activity increased in 2-day-old rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings submitted to anaerobic stress. Likewise, both denaturing and native Western blot analysis detected a rise in the cellular concentration of sucrose synthase protein. Significantly higher steady-state levels of sucrose synthase mRNA, as determined by Northern blots and by the ability of total RNA to direct in vitro synthesis of sucrose synthase, were also induced by anaerobic treatment. Analysis of run-on transcripts showed increased transcription of sucrose synthase genes as early as 60 minutes after initiation of anaerobic stress. Together, these results indicate that sucrose synthase is a typical anaerobic protein in rice.
16668039	A lactate dehydrogenase activity is present in rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings and roots. Under aerobic conditions, lactate dehydrogenase activity is barely detectable in rice seedlings and is very low in rice roots. In 30 day old roots, the activity is increased two to three times by an anoxic or hypoxic treatment and can be detected on immunoblots by an antiserum raised against barley lactate dehydrogenase. The activity present in aerobic seedlings was partially purified. The native enzyme has a molecular mass of 160 kilodaltons, and is a tetramer of 2 subunit (38 and 39 kilodaltons) randomly associated. Studies of substrate specificity, native gel electrophoresis, and immunoblot analysis indicate that the partially purified enzyme is a typical lactate dehydrogenase. However, no increase of lactate dehydrogenase activity or protein was observed in seedlings transferred to anoxia.
16668042	Low-temperature stress was shown to cause a rapid increase in steady-state levels of alcohol dehydrogenase-1 message (Adh1) and protein activity (ADH1) in maize (Zea mays) (B37N, A188) and rice (Oryza sativa) (Taipei 309, Calmochi 101) seedlings. Maize roots and rice shoots and roots from 7-day seedlings shifted to low temperature (10 degrees C) contained as much as 15-fold more Adh1 mRNA and 8-fold more ADH1 protein activity than the corresponding tissues from untreated seedlings. Time-course studies showed that these tissues accumulated Adh1 mRNA and ADH1 activity severalfold within 4- to 8-hour, levels plateaued within 20 to 24 hours, and remained elevated at 4 days of cold treatment. Within 24 hours of returning cold-stressed seedlings to ambient temperature, Adh1 mRNA and ADH1 activity decreased to pretreatment levels. Histochemical staining of maize and rice tissue imprints showed that ADH activity was enhanced along the lengths of cold-stressed maize primary roots and rice roots, and along the stems and leaves of rice shoots. Our observations suggest that short-term cold stress induces Adh1 gene expression in certain plant tissues, which, reminiscient of the anaerobic response, may reflect a fundamental shift in energy metabolism to ensure tissue survival during the stress period.
16668051	(31)P nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to measure intracellular pH in living tissues. Oxygen deprivation caused fast cytoplasmic acidification from pH 7.4 to 7.0 in shoots of rice, Oryza sativa L. var arborio, a species highly resistant to anoxia. Acidification was complete after 10 minutes of anoxia. Alkalinization of both cytosplasm and vacuole followed thereafter. In the anoxia intolerant wheat shoots, Triticum aestivum L. var MEK, the same treatment caused a sharper cytoplasmic acidification, from pH 7.4 to 6.6, which occurred during a period of 2 hours. Cytoplasmic acidification continued with progress of anoxia and there was no vacuolar alkalinization comparable to the one observed in rice. In wheat oxyen, withdrawal also caused the reduction of both glucose-6-phosphate level and of metabolic rate. It also induced heavy losses of inorganic phosphate from tissues. Conversely, in rice, glucose-6-phosphate level and metabolic rate were increased and inorganic phosphate leakage from tissues was completely absent. These results are discussed in relation to the mechanisms of plant resistance to anoxia.
16668128	When rice (Oryza sativa) cell suspension cultures are grown in the presence of [terminal methylenes-(3)H]spermidine, label is incorporated in a single polypeptide with a molecular mass of 18 kilodaltons on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Preincubation of cell cultures with polyamine biosynthesis inhibitors difluoromethylarginine and difluoromethylornithine, resulted in increased incorporation of the label into the 18 kilodalton polypeptide. In cells in which protein synthesis was arrested by cycloheximide, no label was detected in the 18 kilodalton polypeptide, suggesting a requirement for de novo protein synthesis.
16668132	Triacontanol (TRIA), a common constituent of plant waxes, was first shown in 1977 to be an active growth substance which at nanomolar concentrations increased the growth and yield of crops. TRIA is used to increase crop yields on millions of hectares, particularly in Asia. Many investigators have shown that it affects several basic metabolic processes including photosynthesis, nutrient uptake, and enzyme activity. However, the initial site of action has not been elucidated. TRIA rapidly elicits a second messenger (TRIM) in rice (Oryza sativa L.), which at nanomolar concentrations causes plants to respond in a manner similar to TRIA. TRIM has been identified as 9-beta-l(+)-adenosine (9H-purin-6-amine, 9-beta-l-ribofuranosyl). During the process of isolating and identifying 9-beta-l(+)-adenosine, it was shown that this enantiomer, which previously has not been reported as occurring in nature, made up about 1% of the total adenosine pool in roots from untreated rice seedlings.
16668173	For studies of in organello mitochondrial protein synthesis in rice, Oryza sativa L., conventional surface-sterilization procedures were demonstrated to be ineffective. Because of the over-whelmingly efficient [(35)S]methionine utilization by contaminating bacteria, even "essentially bacteria-free" rice mitochondria were shown to be unsuitable for the study of in organello protein synthesis. We developed a procedure to obtain a bacteria-free preparation of rice mitochondria. Such mitochondria favored a membrane-dependent ATP-generating system over an external ATP-generating system as the energy supplement for in organello protein synthesis. Two distinct classes of [(35)S]methionine-labeled, cycloheximide-insensitive products were detected: an electrophoretically unresolved population and a set of some 22 to 27 discrete polypeptide species, each with a characteristic electrophoretic mobility and relative abundance.
16668201	Changes in the levels of cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1) and chloroplastic glutamine synthetase (GS2) polypeptides and of corresponding mRNAs were determined in leaves of hydroponically grown rice (Oryza sativa) plants during natural senescence. The plants were grown in the greenhouse for 105 days at which time the thirteenth leaf was fully expanded. This was counted as zero time for senescence of the twelfth leaf. The twelfth leaf blade on the main stem was analyzed over a time period of -7 days (98 days after germination) to +42 days (147 days after germination). Total GS activity declined to less than a quarter of its initial level during the senescence for 35 days and this decline was mainly caused by a decrease in the amount of GS2 polypeptide. Immunoblotting analyses showed that contents of other chloroplastic enzymes, such as ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase and Fd-glutamate synthase, declined in parallel with GS2. In contrast, the GS1 polypeptide remained constant throughout the senescence period. Translatable mRNA for GS1 increased about fourfold during the senescence for 35 days. During senescence, there was a marked decrease in content of glutamate (to about one-sixth of the zero time value); glutamate is the major form of free amino acid in rice leaves. Glutamine, the major transported amino acid, increased about threefold compared to the early phase of the harvest in the senescing rice leaf blades. These observations suggest that GS1 in senescing leaf blades is responsible for the synthesis of glutamine, which is then transferred to the growing tissues in rice plants.
16668207	Histone H3 proteins were purified to near homogeneity from etiolated seedlings of wheat (Triticum aestivum), barley (Hordeum vulgare), rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), and alfalfa (Medicago sativa) to determine the number of histone H3 variants. Five distinct histone H3 variants were identified by gradient gel electrophoresis and reversed phase chromatography. These variants occur in various combinations of two to four forms in each plant species. One minor histone variant form (variant III, named H3.2 in alfalfa) appeared present and identical in all mono- and dicotyledonous plant species tested to date. All H3 proteins were acetylated to multiple levels and in every species the variant III form was acetylated most extensively. The level of histone H3 acetylation showed an inverse correlation with plant genome size. These observations support the idea that acetylated histones and especially variant III proteins are an element of transcriptionally active chromatin.
16668219	The head smut fungus, Sporisorium reilianum ([Kuhn] Landon and Fullerton), was shown to reduce plant height in infected Sorghum bicolor ([L.] Moench) plants. The major reductions occurred in the internodes nearest the panicle and were more severe in naturally infected than in inoculated plants. Less affected plants developed reproductively sterile panicles, and eventually smutted panicles developed phyllodied growths which progressed into leafy shoots. Extracts of smutted, sterile, and healthy (control) panicles of field-grown plants exhibited gibberellin (GA)-like activity in the dwarf rice bioassay. When extracts were purified and assayed with deuterium-labeled GA standards by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry-selected ion monitoring (GC-MS-SIM), GA(1), GA(3), GA(19), GA(20), and GA(53) were detected based on coelution with the standards, identical Kovats retention index values, and matching ion masses and relative abundances for three major ions. In addition, based on published Kovats retention index values, ion masses, and relative abundance values, GA(4), GA(7), GA(8), GA(14), GA(29), and GA(44) were tentatively identified. Quantitative analysis revealed that panicles of healthy control plants contained from 60 to 100% higher total concentrations of GAs than panicles of smutted plants. These comparisons were most striking for the early 13-hydroxylation pathway precursors GA(53), GA(44), and GA(19) but not for GA(20). Extracts of S. reilianum sporidia and culture medium exhibited GA-like bioactivity, and GA(1) and GA(3) were detected based on GC-MS-SIM assay with (2)H-labeled internal standards. Quantitative analysis of these GAs showed increasing concentrations from 4 to 7 to 10 days of culture and a decline at 20 days. This is the first GC-MS-SIM detection of GAs in a non-Ascomycete fungus, and the disease symptoms and quantitative data suggested that fungal infection may interfere with biosynthesis of GAs by the host plant.
16668421	Lipoxygenase (LOX) and lipid hydroperoxide-decomposing activity (LHDA) markedly increased in the fifth leaves of rice (Oryza sativa cv Aichiasahi) after infection with the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea. The increases in the enzyme activities were significantly higher in response to infection with an incompatible strain (race 131) compared with infection with a compatible strain (race 007) of the fungus. Using ion-exchange chromatography, we isolated three LOX activities (leaf LOX-1, -2, -3) from both uninoculated and infected leaves. The activity of leaf LOX-3, in particular, increased in the incompatible race-infected leaves. The leaf LOX-3 had a pH optimum of 5.0 and produced preferentially 13-l-hydroperoxy-9,11 (Z,E)-octadecadienoic acid (13-HPODD) from linoleic acid. 13-HPODD and 13-l-hydroxy-9,11 (Z,E)-octadecadienoic acid, one of the reaction products from 13-HPODD by LHDA, were highly inhibitory to the germination of conidia of the fungus. The present study provides correlative evidence for important roles of LOX and LHDA in the resistance response of rice against the blast fungus.
16668444	We have compared the effects of two elicitors of defense-related processes on rice (Oryza sativa L.) suspension cells. Both chitosan and salicylic acid induced the accumulation of extracellular chitinase, thickening of the cell wall, and a variety of cytological changes in treated cells. Chitosan also induced the production of a brown pigment and cell death. Both of these effects depended on the availability of reactive oxygen species, because the damage was greatly reduced by either catalase or free-radical scavengers. Pretreating cells with salicylic acid also protected them from the cytotoxic effects of chitosan. This type of induced tolerance persisted when salicylic acid was removed and was not simply due to the release of extracellular substances, because salicylic acid-treated cells did not protect untreated cells from chitosan-induced death. Salicylic acid also stimulated the production of a 10-kilodalton subtilisin inhibitor that was not produced by chitosan-treated cells. Most of these changes are associated with the hypersensitive response of many plant species, including monocotyledons, and may serve as an in vitro model for investigating the biochemistry of some diseases.
16668477	Hygromycin resistance gene cassettes were designed to facilitate vector construction for plant transformation. Unique EcoRI, Pstl, and Sacll sites in the coding sequence of a hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene (hph) from Escherichia coli were eliminated. The mutated hph genes were used to form gene cassettes flanked by EcoRI-Sacll-Kpnl-Hindlll sites. Hygromycin resistance of wild-type and mutated hph genes was indistinguishable in E. coli and rice protoplast growth assay.
16668545	Effects of irradiance on photosynthetic characteristics were examined in senescent leaves of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Two irradiance treatments (100 and 20% natural sunlight) were imposed after the full expansion of the 13th leaf through senescence. The photosynthetic rate was measured as a function of intercellular CO(2) pressure with a gas-exchange system. The amounts of cytochrome f, coupling factor 1, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco), and chlorophyll were determined. The coupling factor 1 and cytochrome f contents decreased rapidly during senescence, and their rates of decrease were much faster from the 20% sunlight treatment than from the full sunlight treatment. These changes were well correlated with those in the photosynthetic rate at CO(2) pressure = 600 microbars, but not with those under the ambient air condition (350 microbars CO(2)) and 200 microbars CO(2). This suggested that the amounts of coupling factor 1 and cytochrome f from the full sunlight treatment cannot be limiting factors for the photosynthetic rate at ambient air conditions. The Rubisco content also decreased during senescence, but its decrease from the 20% sunlight treatment was appreciably retarded. However, this difference was not reflected in the photosynthetic rates at the ambient and 200 microbars CO(2). This implied that in vivo Rubisco activity may be regulated in the senescent leaves from the 20% sunlight treatment. The chlorophyll content decreased most slowly. In the 20% sunlight treatment, it remained apparently constant with a decline in chlorophyll a/b ratio. These photosynthetic characteristics of the senescent rice leaves under low irradiance were discussed in relation to acclimation of shade plants.
16668639	Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (EC 4.3.1.5) has been purified from differentiating secondary xylem of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.). Native molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 280,000, with a subunit molecular weight of 74,000; isoelectric point, 5.8; and Michaelis constant for i-phenylalanine, 27 micromolar. No evidence was obtained for the existence of isoforms of the enzyme, nor for negative cooperativity of substrate binding. Polyclonal antibodies were raised against the phenylalanine ammonia-lyase subunit and used to identify a pal clone in an expression library of xylem complementary DNA (cDNA). Polymerase chain reaction, using oligonucleotide primers made from N-terminal amino acid sequence and from the 5' end of the clone isolated from the expression library, was also used to isolate cDNA clones. These methods yielded cDNA clones covering the protein coding region of the pal messenger RNA. Comparisons of nucleotide sequence of pal cDNAs from pine, bean, sweet potato, and rice showed 60 to 62% identity between the pine clone and the angiosperm clones.
16668655	Shoots of germinating rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings are able to grow under anoxia and to withstand long periods of anoxic treatment. Mitochondria were purified from aerobically germinated and anaerobically treated rice shoots by differential and isopycnic centrifugation and were found to consist of two subpopulations. The mitochondrial subpopulation of higher density was used for further characterization. Ultrastructural studies showed anaerobic mitochondria to be significantly different from aerobic mitochondria, with a matrix of lower density and more developed cristae. Aerobic and anaerobic mitochondria also differed in their specific activities for fumarase and succinate dehydrogenase, which were significantly lower after the anoxic treatment. In vivo labeling of seedlings with l-[(35)S]methionine and subsequent isolation of the mitochondria indicated that anoxia induced a drastic decrease, but not a total inactivation, of the synthesis of mitochondrial proteins. In organello protein synthesis showed that anaerobic mitochondria were able to synthesize most of the polypeptides synthesized by aerobic mitochondria, although only in the presence of exogenous ATP, as would occur under anoxia. Anaerobic mitochondria, but not aerobic mitochondria, could carry out protein synthesis without a functional respiratory chain. Thus, mitochondrial protein synthesis was found to be potentially functional in the rice shoot under anoxia.
16668666	Auxin-stimulated elongation of apical segments of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv Arborio) coleoptiles occurring in the first 4 hours of treatment has been studied. Cell extension promoted in the first 2 hours by 10 micromolar indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) is specifically auxin-dependent, whereas after 4 hours, elongation also depends on endogenous production of ethylene. Similar to other systems, rice coleoptile cell elongation stimulated by auxin requires continuous synthesis of RNA and protein. Two-dimensional gel analysis of the in vitro translation products obtained from polyadenylated RNAs extracted from treated and untreated segments after 1 or 4 hours from the initial addition of IAA shows few transcriptional differences. At 60 minutes of treatment, the level of three mRNAs coding for proteins of 22.5, 25, and 33 kilodaltons was moderately enhanced while the disappearance of a 38 kilodalton translation product was observed. Additional repression of another mRNA coding for a 28 kilodalton product begins to show by this time, but becomes more evident after 4 hours treatment. At 4 hours, four IAA-specific mRNA enhancements coding for proteins with molecular masses ranging between 35 to 40 kilodaltons were also observed. We discuss these data in relation to the possible involvement of IAA-mediated transcriptional regulation in growth promotion of rice coleoptiles and, more widely, in control of cell elongation.
16668771	The use of nondwarf rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars treated with uniconazole as test plants for gibberellin (GA) bioassay instead of Tan-ginbozu dwarf rice variant was investigated. The sensitivity of six nondwarf rice cultivars to GAs was increased substantially by treatment of the seeds with uniconazole. The minimum detectable dose of a GA in the nondwarf cultivars treated with uniconazole was 1- to 1/10-fold of that in the nontreated Tanginbozu and 3- to 10-fold of that in uniconazole-treated Tanginbozu. The relative activity of several GAs on treated nondwarf rice cultivars was not largely different from that to Tan-ginbozu. Considering that seeds of nondwarf rice are available commercially, the nondwarf rice seedling assay would be useful as a simple assay for systematic analysis of GAs, and also as a routine teaching tool in high schools and universities.
16668794	To obtain a monospecific antibody against NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT; EC 1.4.1.14), the enzyme was purified to homogeneity from cultured rice cells (Oryza sativa) with column chromatography using Butyl Toyopearl 650M, Sephacryl S-300, Blue Sepharose CL-6B, and Butyl Toyopearl 650S. The specific activity at the final stage of the purification was 9.8 micromoles of glutamate formed per minute per milligram of protein. The yield was 6.1% and purification was 815-fold. Analysis by denaturing gel electrophoresis revealed a single polypeptide with an apparent molecular weight of 196,000, similar to the value of 194,000 estimated for the native protein. Apparent K(m) values for l-glutamine, 2-oxoglutarate, and NADH were 811, 76, and 3.0 micromolar, respectively. Neither NADPH nor l-asparagine substituted for NADH and l-glutamine, respectively. The enzyme had its absorption maxima at 273, 373, and 440 nanometers with a shoulder at 475 nanometers, suggesting that the rice NADH-GOGAT is a flavoprotein. Monospecific antibody raised against NADH-GOGAT purified from the rice cells was obtained as the first instance for the enzyme in higher plants. Immunological analyses showed that the antibody for rice cell NADH-GOGAT reacted with only the enzyme in extracts from the cells. The anti-NADH-GOGAT antibody did not recognize the ferredoxin-GOGAT purified from rice leaves, and likewise the anti-rice leaf ferredoxin-GOGAT antibody did not react with the NADH-GOGAT purified from the cultured rice cells.
16668795	Changes in the levels of cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1) and chloroplastic glutamine synthetase (GS2) polypeptides and of their corresponding mRNAs have been investigated in segments of the 13th leaf of hydroponically grown rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants during natural senescence. The leaf blade on the main stem at early (0 day), middle (15 days), and late (25 days) stages of senescence was harvested and cut into 18 or 19 segments, 2 centimeters in length from the base to the tip. The amount of GS1 polypeptide, detected with specific antibody for the GS1, was greatest near the middle of the leaf blade (segments 11-13). There was little difference in the GS1 content between corresponding leaf segments obtained at the early and middle stages of senescence. At the late senescence stage, all segments had lost some GS1 polypeptide, but more than 50% of GS1 detected at both the early and middle stages was still detectable in segments. The relative content of mRNA for GS1 in the total RNA in all segments was very low during early senescence but increased in all leaf segments during later senescence. At the late stage of senescence, GS1 mRNA in the total RNA increased about 4.2- to 4.6-fold in segments 12 to 16 in the day-25 samples compared with those in the early stage. The content of the GS2 polypeptide, as well as ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) protein, was highest in segment 17 in the 0-day samples. During senescence, this peak became lower and broader, and finally disappeared, i.e. approximately 80% of GS2 polypeptide and Rubisco protein in segment 17 were lost by day 25. In contrast with GS2 polypeptide, the relative level of GS2 mRNA increased 1.8- to 2.9-fold in individual segments at the middle stage of senescence. Even at the late stage, the transcript signals remained slightly higher than those at the early stage in all segments. Thus, GS1 and GS2 polypeptides and corresponding mRNAs responded in a different manner within an attached rice leaf during natural senescence. The contents of GS1 and GS2 polypeptides were not simply determined by the abundance of their corresponding mRNAs in the rice leaf blades during natural senescence.
16668800	Expression of the Em gene was characterized in rice (Oryza sativa L.) suspension cultures following exposure of the cultures to various combinations of abscisic acid (ABA) and salt. Response-saturating concentrations of either ABA (50 micromolar) or NaCl (0.4 molar) rapidly induced (by 60 minutes) the accumulation of Em mRNA, with a maximum accumulation occurring 12 to 24 hours after treatment. NaCl-induced Em expression was accompanied by a doubling of endogenous ABA levels as determined by immunoassay. Inhibition of ABA biosynthesis by fluridone during NaCl treatment reduced the levels of endogenous ABA by fourfold and Em expression by 50%. Desiccation of the cultures to 12 to 15% of their initial fresh weight increased endogenous ABA more than twofold and was accompanied by an increase in Em mRNA levels. Exposure of the cultures to heat shock temperatures, chilling, or ultraviolet light neither increased endogenous ABA levels nor induced Em expression. When a subthreshold or saturating level of NaCl was added in combination with increasing levels of ABA, Em transcripts were detected at ABA concentrations that alone did not induce expression of Em. Treatment with saturating levels of both NaCl and ABA resulted in a doubling of Em transcript levels over the maximum signal for each treatment alone. Hence, our data suggested that salt interacted synergistically with ABA, in part because of the increased sensitivity of rice cells to ABA. The effect of salt stress on Em gene expression in rice suspension cells appeared to operate through two pathways: one is mediated through increases in the level of ABA; the other is via a unique salt response pathway that includes an intermediate that is common to both the salt and ABA response chains.
16668910	Two cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.) IR-36 and Fujiyama-5 were grown at ambient (360 microbars) and elevated CO(2) (660 microbars) from germination through reproduction in unshaded greenhouses at the Duke University Phytotron. Growth at elevated CO(2) resulted in significant decreases in nighttime respiration and increases in photosynthesis, total biomass, and yield for both cultivars. However, in plants exposed to simultaneous increases in CO(2) and ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation, CO(2) enhancement effects on respiration, photosynthesis, and biomass were eliminated in IR-36 and significantly reduced in Fujiyama-5. UV-B radiation simulated a 25% depletion in stratospheric ozone at Durham, North Carolina. Analysis of the response of CO(2) uptake to internal CO(2) concentration at light saturation suggested that, for IR-36, the predominant limitation to photosynthesis with increased UV-B radiation was the capacity for regeneration of ribulose bisphosphate (RuBP), whereas for Fujiyama-5 the primary photosynthetic decrease appeared to be related to a decline in apparent carboxylation efficiency. Changes in the RuBP regeneration limitation in IR-36 were consistent with damage to the photochemical efficiency of photosystem II as estimated from the ratio of variable to maximum chlorophyll fluorescence. Little change in RuBP regeneration and photochemistry was evident in cultivar Fujiyama-5, however. The degree of sensitivity of photochemical reactions with increased UV-B radiation appeared to be related to leaf production of UV-B-absorbing compounds. Fujiyama-5 had a higher concentration of these compounds than IR-36 in all environments, and the production of these compounds in Fujiyama-5 was stimulated by UV-B fluence. Results from this study suggest that in rice alterations in growth or photosynthesis as a result of enhanced CO(2) may be eliminated or reduced if UV-B radiation continues to increase.
16668912	Proteins inducible by dehydration and abscisic acid (ABA), termed dehydrins or RAB (Responsive to ABA) proteins, have been identified in a number of species and have been suggested to play a role in desiccation tolerance, particularly during seed development. Seeds (caryopses) of North American wild rice (Zizania palustris var interior [Fassett] Dore) are tolerant of dehydration to <10% moisture content (fresh weight basis) only under restricted dehydration and rehydration conditions. In comparison, seeds of paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.) readily tolerate desiccation to <5% water content. Expression of "dehydrin-like" proteins in Zizania and Oryza seedlings and embryos was examined to investigate the relationship between the presence of such proteins and desiccation tolerance. [(35)S]Methionine labeling of newly synthesized proteins showed that seedlings (first leaf stage) of both Zizania and Oryza synthesized a novel "heat-stable" protein of apparent molecular weight = 20,000 when dehydrated to <75% of their initial fresh weight. ABA (100 micromolar) induced synthesis of a protein with similar electrophoretic mobility in both species. Western blots using antiserum raised against maize (Zea mays L.) dehydrin detected a protein band from dehydrated Zizania shoots and mature embryonic axes that comigrated with the labeled 20-kilodalton polypeptide. Northern blots using a cDNA for an ABA-responsive protein from Oryza (rab 16a) showed that both seedlings and excised embryonic axes of Zizania accumulated RNA similar in sequence to rab 16a in response to water loss. Zizania seedlings and embryonic axes were also capable of ABA accumulation during dehydration. The intolerance of Zizania seeds to dehydration at low temperature is apparently not due to an absence of dehydrin-like proteins or an inability to accumulate ABA.
16668962
16668969	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar Cas 209 carries the gene Xa-10 for resistance to race 2 of Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae, the bacterial blight pathogen. When seedling leaves of Cas 209 plants were infiltrated with bacterial cell suspensions of strain PXO86(Rif) (race 2, incompatible), total peroxidase activity in extracts from extracellular spaces increased almost threefold between 16 and 24 hours after inoculation. The increase in total peroxidase activity in extracellular extracts was correlated with the appearance of a 43-kilodalton peroxidase isoenzyme with an isoelectric point of 8.6. Increases in the activities of two anionic peroxidase isoenzymes also were associated with the incompatible interaction. Later during the interactions, total peroxidase activities increased in both compatible (cv Cas 209 infiltrated with race 1, PXO61(Sm)) and control (Cas 209 infiltrated with water) treatments, but final activity levels were less than that observed in the incompatible combination. Similarly, the cationic peroxidase was detected in all three treatments by 48 hours after infiltration, but at reduced levels in compatible and water-infiltrated control treatments relative to the incompatible combination. Accumulation of this peroxidase in extracellular spaces thus may play a role in the defense response in cultivar Cas 209.
16668981	Polyadenylated RNA was isolated and a cDNA library constructed from seedlings of a chilling-tolerant rice cultivar (Oryza sativa L. subsp. Japonica cv Nipponbare). Four clones were isolated by differential screening. Northern blot hybridization using RNAs from chilling-tolerant (Nipponbare) and -sensitive (IR36) cultivars revealed higher steady-state levels of transcripts for the four genes in Nipponbare than in IR36 maintained at the same low temperatures. The accumulation of transcripts homologous to selected cDNA sequences during chilling were tissue-specific. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences of three clones, pBC121, pBC442, and pBC591, were determined, and no homology was identified by comparison with the latest version of EMBL and LASL gene data bases. The deduced protein sequences from the longest open reading frame of the clones pBC121 and pBC442 are rich in leucine and serine, whereas that of the clone pBC591 contains arginine-rich basic domains.
16668983	Submergence induces rapid elongation of rice coleoptiles (Oryza sativa L.) and of deepwater rice internodes. This adaptive feature helps rice to grow out of the water and to survive flooding. Earlier, we found that the growth response of submerged deepwater rice plants is mediated by ethylene and gibberellin (GA). Ethylene promotes growth, at least in part, by increasing the responsiveness of the internodal tissue to GA. In the present work, we examined the possibility that increased responsiveness to GA was based on a reduction in endogenous abscisic acid (ABA) levels. Submergence and treatment with ethylene led, within 3 hours, to a 75% reduction in the level of ABA in the intercalary meristem and the growing zone of deepwater rice internodes. The level of GA(1) increased fourfold during the same time period. An interaction between GA and ABA could also be shown by application of the hormones. ABA inhibited growth of submerged internodes, and GA counteracted this inhibition. Our results indicate that the growth rate of deepwater rice internodes is determined by the ratio of an endogenous growth promoter (GA) and a growth inhibitor (ABA). We also investigated whether ABA is involved in regulating the growth of rice coleoptiles. Rice seedlings were grown on solutions containing fluridone, an inhibitor of carotenoid and, indirectly, of ABA biosynthesis. Treatment with fluridone reduced the level of ABA in coleoptiles and first leaves by more than 75% and promoted coleoptile growth by more than 60%. Little or no enhancement of growth by fluridone was observed in barley, oat, or wheat. The involvement of ABA in determining the growth rate of rice coleoptiles and deepwater rice internodes may be related to the semiaquatic growth habit of this plant.
16668985	Cell-free extracts of UV-irradiated rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaves have a much greater capacity for the synthesis from geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate of diterpene hydrocarbons, including the putative precursors of rice phytoalexins, than extracts of unstressed leaves (KA Wickham, CA West [1992] Arch Biochem Biophys 293: 320-332). An elicitor bioassay was developed on the basis of these observations in which 6-day-old rice cell suspension cultures were incubated for 40 hours with the substance to be tested, and an enzyme extract of the treated cells was assayed for its diterpene hydrocarbon synthesis activity as a measure of the response to elicitor. Four types of cell wall polysaccharides and oligosaccharide fragments that have elicitor activity for other plants were tested. Of these, polymeric chitin was the most active; a suspension concentration of approximately 7 micrograms per milliliter gave 50% of the maximum response in the bioassay. Chitosan and a branched beta-1,3-glucan fraction from Phytophthora megasperma f. sp. glycinea cell walls were only weakly active, and a mixture of oligogalacturonides was only slightly active. A crude mycelial cell wall preparation from the rice pathogen, Fusarium moniliforme, gave a response comparable to that of chitin, and this activity was sensitive to predigestion of the cell wall material with chitinase before the elicitor assay. N-Acetylglucosamine, chitobiose, chitotriose, and chitotetrose were inactive as elicitors, whereas a mixture of chitin fragments solubilized from insoluble chitin by partial acid hydrolysis was highly active. Constitutive chitinase activity was detected in the culture filtrate and enzyme extract of cells from a 6-day-old rice cell culture; the amount of chitinase activity increased markedly in both the culture filtrate and cell extracts after treatment of the culture with chitin. We propose on the basis of these results that soluble chitin fragments released from fungal cell walls through the action of constitutive rice chitinases serve as biotic elicitors of defense-related responses in rice.
16669000
16669048	We have isolated, sequenced, and expressed a cold-specific cDNA clone, Wcs120, that specifically hybridizes to a major mRNA species of approximately 1650 nucleotides from cold-acclimated wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). The accumulation of this mRNA was induced in less than 24 hours of cold treatment, and remained at a high steady-state level during the entire period of cold acclimation in the two freezing-tolerant genotypes of wheat tested. The expression of Wcs120 was transient in a less-tolerant genotype even though the genomic organization of the Wcs120 and the relative copy number were the same in the three genotypes. The mRNA level decreased rapidly during deacclimation and was not induced by heat shock, drought, or abscisic acid. The Wcs120 cDNA contains a long open reading frame encoding a protein of 390 amino acids. The encoded protein is boiling stable, highly hydrophilic, and has a compositional bias for glycine (26.7%), threonine (16.7%), and histidine (10.8%), although cysteine, phenylalanine, and tryptophan were absent. The WCS120 protein contains two repeated domains. Domain A has the consensus amino acid sequence GEKKGVMENIKEKLPGGHGDHQQ, which is repeated 6 times, whereas domain B has the sequence TGGTYGQQGHTGTT, which is repeated 11 times. The two domains were also found in barley dehydrins and rice abscisic acid-induced protein families. The expression of this cDNA in Escherichia coli, using the T(7) RNA polymerase promoter, produced a protein of 50 kilodaltons with an isoelectric point of 7.3, and this product comigrated with a major protein synthesized in vivo and in vitro during cold acclimation.
16669062	Tissue localizations of cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1; EC 6.3.1.2), chloroplastic GS (GS2), and ferredoxin-dependent glutamate synthase (Fd-GOGAT; EC 1.4.7.1) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) leaf blades were investigated using a tissue-print immunoblot method with specific antibodies. The cross-sections of mature and senescent leaf blades from middle and basal regions were used for tissue printing. The anti-GS1 antibody, raised against a synthetic 17-residue peptide corresponding to the deduced N-terminal amino acid sequence of rice GS1, cross-reacted specifically with native GS1 protein, but not with GS2 after transfer onto a nitrocellulose membrane. Tissue-print immunoblots showed that the GS1 protein was located in large and small vascular bundles in all regions of the leaf blade prepared from either stage of maturity. On the other hand, GS2 and Fd-GOGAT proteins were mainly located in mesophyll cells. The intensity of the developed color on the membrane for GS1 was similar between the two leaf ages, whereas that for GS2 and Fd-GOGAT decreased during senescence. The tissue-specific localization of GS1 suggests that this GS isoform is important in the synthesis of glutamine, which is a major form of nitrogen exported from the senescing leaf in rice plants.
16669094	The possible involvement of calcium in the regulation of methyl jasmonate-promoted senescence of detached rice (Oryza sativa) leaves was investigated. Calcium effectively reduced methyl jasmonate-promoted senescence of detached rice leaves. The effect of methyl jasmonate on the senescence was also significantly reduced by calcium ionophore A23187. Methyl jasmonate-promoted senescence of detached rice leaves may be mediated through blocking the entrance of calcium ions into the cytosol.
16669102
16669307	The present investigation was carried out to study the removal of nickel using a non-conventional adsorbent, rice husk. The effects of contact time, adsorbent dosage, pH, concentration of the metal ion and isotherm models are studied in a batch process. A steady trend was observed for all variables. The adsorption percentage increased with increase in contact time, adsorbent dosage and pH, but there was a decrease in adsorption with increase in concentration of the metal ion. K, the adsorbent capacity and 1/n, the adsorption intensity values showed that rice husk, a non-conventional adsorbent is efficient in removing Ni (II) from an aqueous solution. The adsorption data fitted well into Freundlich adsorption isotherm.
16669770	Technological advances in expression profiling and in the ability to collect minute quantities of tissues have come together to allow a growing number of global transcriptional studies at the cell level in plants. Microarray technology, with a choice of cDNA or oligo-based slides, is now well established, with commercial full-genome platforms for rice and Arabidopsis and extensive expressed sequence tag (EST)-based designs for many other species. Microdissection and cell sorting are two established methodologies that have been used in conjunction with microarrays to provide an early glimpse of the transcriptional landscape at the level of individual cell types. The results indicate that much of the transcriptome is compartmentalized. A minor but consistent percentage of transcripts appear to be unique to specific cell types. Functional analyses of cell-specific patterns of gene expression are providing important clues to cell-specific functions. The spatial dissection of the transcriptome has also yielded insights into the localized mediators of hormone inputs and promises to provide detail on cell-specific effects of microRNAs.
16670901	We report the investigation of an endosperm-specific promoter from the rsus3 gene from rice (Oryza sativa). The promoter was characterized by deletion analysis and transient expression in guar (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba) seed-tissue. Transient expression was monitored by histochemical GUS assay, and quantitative dual reporter assays comprising firefly luciferase as a test reporter, and Renilla luciferase and GUS as reference reporters. These revealed high expression levels of the reporter genes directed by the rsus3 promoter in guar endosperm. Specificity for this tissue in seeds was apparent from a virtual absence of reporter activity in guar cotyledons. Removal of a putative intron region only slightly raised the expression level, whereas duplication of the minimal promoter region, in a tandem-repeat rsus3 promoter construct, retained endosperm specificity in guar, and displayed three times the reporter activity observed with the single copy construct.
16672076	Plant biotechnology can make important contributions to food security and nutritional improvement. For example, the development of 'Golden Rice' by Professor Ingo Potrykus was a milestone in the application of gene technology to deliver both increased nutritional qualities and health improvement to wide sections of the human population. Mineral nutrient and protein deficiency as well as food security remain the most important challenges for developing countries. Current projects are addressing these issues in two major staple crops, cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) and rice. The tropical root crop cassava is a major source of food for approximately 600 million of the population worldwide. In sub-Saharan Africa >200 million of the population rely on cassava as their major source of dietary energy. The nutritional quality of the cassava root is not sufficient to meet all dietary needs. Rice is the staple food for half the world population, providing approximately 20% of the per capita energy and 13% of the protein for human consumption worldwide. In many developing countries the dietary contributions of rice are substantially greater (29.3% dietary energy and 29.1% dietary protein). The current six most popular 'mega' rice varieties (in terms of popularity and acreage), including Chinese hybrid rice, have an incomplete amino acid profile and contain limited amounts of essential micronutrients. Rice lines with improved Fe contents have been developed using genes that have functions in Fe absorption, translocation and accumulation in the plant, as well as improved Fe bioavailability in the human intestine. Current developments in biotechnology-assisted plant improvement are reviewed and the potential of the technology in addressing human nutrition and health are discussed.
16672264	Kinesin is an ATP-driven motor protein that plays important physiological roles in intracellular transport, mitosis and meiosis, control of microtubule dynamics, and signal transduction. The kinesin family is classified into subfamilies. Kinesin species derived from vertebrates have been well characterized. In contrast, plant kinesins have yet to be adequately characterized. In this study, we expressed the motor domain of a novel rice plant-specific kinesin, K16, in Escherichia coli, and then determined its enzymatic characteristics and compared them with those of kinesin 1. Our findings demonstrated that the rice kinesin motor domain has different enzymatic properties from those of well known kinesin 1.
16672623	Ralstonia solanacearum, a soilborne plant pathogen of considerable economic importance, invades host plant roots from the soil. Qualitative and quantitative chemotaxis assays revealed that this bacterium is specifically attracted to diverse amino acids and organic acids, and especially to root exudates from the host plant tomato. Exudates from rice, a nonhost plant, were less attractive. Eight different strains from this heterogeneous species complex varied significantly in their attraction to a panel of carbohydrate stimuli, raising the possibility that chemotactic responses may be differentially selected traits that confer adaptation to various hosts or ecological conditions. Previous studies found that an aflagellate mutant lacking swimming motility is significantly reduced in virulence, but the role of directed motility mediated by the chemotaxis system was not known. Two site-directed R. solanacearum mutants lacking either CheA or CheW, which are core chemotaxis signal transduction proteins, were completely nonchemotactic but retained normal swimming motility. In biologically realistic soil soak virulence assays on tomato plants, both nonchemotactic mutants had significantly reduced virulence indistinguishable from that of a nonmotile mutant, demonstrating that directed motility, not simply random motion, is required for full virulence. In contrast, nontactic strains were as virulent as the wild-type strain was when bacteria were introduced directly into the plant stem through a cut petiole, indicating that taxis makes its contribution to virulence in the early stages of host invasion and colonization. When inoculated individually by soaking the soil, both nontactic mutants reached the same population sizes as the wild type did in the stems of tomato plants just beginning to wilt. However, when tomato plants were coinoculated with a 1:1 mixture of a nontactic mutant and its wild-type parent, the wild-type strain outcompeted both nontactic mutants by 100-fold. Together, these results indicate that chemotaxis is an important trait for virulence and pathogenic fitness in this plant pathogen.
16673817	To compare the ileal digestibility of protein and amino acids in parental rice and rice genetically modified with sck gene. Six experimental swines were surgically fixed with a simple T-cannula at the terminal ileum and fed with parental rice and rice genetically modified with sck gene alternately. The ileum digesta were collected and analyzed for determination of apparent and true digestibility of protein and amino acids. The apparent and true digestibility of protein was similar in these two types of rice. Except for the apparent digestibility of lysine, there was no difference in the apparent and true digestibility of the other 17 amino acids. The digestibility of protein and amino acids is not changed by the insertion of foreign gene, so it can meet the request of "substantial equivalence" in digestibility of protein and amino acids.
16673936	The Medicago truncatula DMI3 gene encodes a calcium- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CCaMK) that is necessary for the establishment of both rhizobial and mycorrhizal symbioses. The two symbiotic signaling pathways diverge downstream of DMI3; therefore, it has been proposed that legumes have evolved a particular form of CCaMK, acting like a switch able both to discriminate between rhizobial and mycorrhizal calcium signatures and to trigger the appropriate downstream signaling pathway. To test this hypothesis, we examined whether a CCaMK gene from a nonlegume species was able to restore the rhizobial symbiotic properties of a M. truncatula dmi3 mutant. Our results show that a CCaMK gene from rice can restore nodule formation, indicating that CCaMKs from nonlegumes can interpret the calcium signature elicited by rhizobial Nod factors and activate the appropriate downstream target. The nodules did not contain bacteria, which suggests that DMI3 is also involved in the control of the infection process.
16673937	The endophyte Azoarcus sp. strain BH72 expresses nitrogenase (nif) genes inside rice roots. We applied a proteomic approach to dissect responses of rice roots toward bacterial colonization and jasmonic acid (JA) treatment. Two sister lineages of Oryza sativa were analyzed with cv. IR42 showing a less compatible interaction with the Azoarcus sp. resulting in slight root browning whereas cv. IR36 was successfully colonized as determined by nifHi::gusA activity. External addition of JA inhibited colonization of roots and caused browning in contrast to the addition of ethylene, applied as ethephon (up to 5 mM). Only two of the proteins induced in cv. IR36 by JA were also induced by the endophyte (SalT, two isoforms). In contrast, seven JA-induced proteins were also induced by bacteria in cv. IR42, indicating that IR42 showed a stronger defense response. Mass spectrometry analysis identified these proteins as pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins (Prb1, RSOsPR10) or proteins sharing domains with receptorlike kinases induced by pathogens. Proteins strongly induced in roots in both varieties by JA were identified as Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibittors, germinlike protein, putative endo-1,3-beta-D-glucosidase, glutathion-S-transferase, and 1-propane-1-carboxylate oxidase synthase, peroxidase precursor, PR10-a, and a RAN protein previously not found to be JA-induced. Data suggest that plant defense responses involving JA may contribute to restricting endophytic colonization in grasses. Remarkably, in a compatible interaction with endophytes, JA-inducible stress or defense responses are apparently not important.
16673940	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades play a crucial role in plant growth and development as well as biotic and abiotic stress responses. In Arabidopsis, 20 MAPKs have been identified and divided into four major groups. In rice, a monocot model and economically important cereal crop, only five MAPKs were characterized, including three related to the host defense response. In this study, we have identified 17 members of the rice MAPK gene (OsMPK) family through an in silico search of rice genome databases. Based on the phylogenetic analysis and pairwise comparison of Arabidopsis and rice MAPKs, we propose that MAPKs can be divided into six groups. Interestingly, the rice genome contains many more MAPKs with the TDY phosphorylation site (11 members) than with the TEY motif (six members). In contrast, the Arabidopsis genome contains more MAPKs with the TEY motif (12 members) than with the TDY motif (eight members). Upon inoculation with the blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea), nine of 17 OsMPK genes were found to be induced at the mRNA level during either early, late, or both stages of infection. Four of the M. grisea-induced OsMPK genes were associated with host-cell death in the lesion-mimic rice mutant, and eight of them were differentially induced in response to defense signal molecules such as jasmonic acid, salicylic acid, abscisic acid, and ethylene. The genome-wide expression analysis suggests that about half of the rice MAPK genes are associated with pathogen infection and host defense response.
16678047	Prostate cancer mortality rates vary widely across the world. The purpose of this study is to identify environmental factors associated with prostate cancer mortality risk. Prostate cancer mortality rates in 71 countries were compared to per capita food intake rates using age-adjusted cancer rates (year 2000) from the International Agency for Research on Cancer, and food consumption data (1990-1992) provided by the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations. Simple regression models were applied to prostate cancer mortality rates and consumption rates for 38 foods (or food categories), and sunlight levels (latitude from the equator and ultraviolet indexes). The analysis found a correlation between increased prostate cancer mortality rates and the consumption of total animal calories, total animal fat calories, meat, animal fat, milk, sugar, alcoholic beverages, and stimulants. The consumption of cereal grains and rice, in particular, correlated strongly with decreasing prostate cancer mortality. The analysis found that increased sunlight levels and consumption of oilseeds, soybeans, and onions also correlate with decreased prostate cancer mortality risk. Stepwise multiple regression analysis was used to build a regression model with minimum colinearity between the variables. Cereals, total animal fat calories, sugar, and onions are the foods that resulted in a model with the best fit. Cereals, ultraviolet index, sugar, and onions were the variables found to provide the best fit in a model when ambient sunlight exposure was included as a factor.
16678407	Mulching the soil surface with a layer of plant residue is an effective method of conserving water and soil because it reduces surface runoff, increases infiltration of water into the soil and retard soil erosion. The effectiveness of using elephant grass (Pennisetum purpureum) as mulching material was evaluated in the laboratory using a rainfall simulator set at rainfall intensities typical of the tropics. Six soil samples, two from each of the three major soil series representing the main agricultural soils in South Western Nigeria were collected, placed on three different slopes, and mulched with different rates of the grass. The surface runoff, soil loss, and apparent cumulative infiltration were then measured under each condition. The results with elephant grass compared favorably with results from previous experiments using rice straw. Runoff and soil loss decreased with the amount of mulch used and increased with slope. Surface runoff, infiltration and soil loss had high correlations (R = 0.90, 0.89, and 0.86, respectively) with slope and mulch cover using surface response analysis. The mean surface runoff was correlated negatively with sand content, while mean soil loss was correlated positively with colloidal content (clay and organic matter) of the soil. Infiltration was increased and soil loss was reduced greatly with the highest cover. Mulching the soils with elephant grass residue may benefit late cropping (second cropping) by increasing stored soil water for use during dry weather and help to reduce erosion on sloping land.
16679424	Inorganic phosphate (Pi)-signaling pathways in plants are still largely unknown. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) pho2 mutant overaccumulates Pi in leaves in Pi-replete conditions. Micrografting revealed that a pho2 root genotype is sufficient to yield leaf Pi accumulation. In pho2 mutants, Pi does not repress a set of Pi starvation-induced genes, including AtIPS1, AT4, and Pi transporters Pht1;8 and Pht1;9. Map-based cloning identified PHO2 as At2g33770, an unusual E2 conjugase gene. It was recently shown that Pi deprivation induces mature microRNA (miRNA [miR399]) and that overexpression of miR399 in Pi-replete conditions represses E2 conjugase expression and leads to high leaf Pi concentrations, thus phenocopying pho2. We show here that miR399 primary transcripts are also strongly induced by low Pi and rapidly repressed after addition of Pi. PHO2 transcripts change reciprocally to miR399 transcripts in Pi-deprived plants and in miR399 overexpressers. However, responses after Pi readdition and in beta-glucuronidase reporter lines suggest that PHO2 expression is also regulated by Pi in a manner unrelated to miR399-mediated transcript cleavage. Expression of miR399 was strongly reduced in Pi-deprived Arabidopsis phr1 mutants, and a subset of Pi-responsive genes repressed in Pi-deprived phr1 mutants was up-regulated in Pi-replete pho2 mutants. This places miR399 and PHO2 in a branch of the Pi-signaling network downstream of PHR1. Finally, putative PHO2 orthologs containing five miR399-binding sites in their 5'-untranslated regions were identified in other higher plants, and Pi-dependent miR399 expression was demonstrated in rice (Oryza sativa), suggesting a conserved regulatory mechanism.
16679744	This study aimed to develop a new processing method for the effective use of rice shochu distillation remnants. We examined the inhibitory effects on the growth of human lung carcinoma cells in the medium of rice shochu distillation remnants with various fungi. Interestingly, high inhibitory effects on the growth of human lung carcinoma cells in the medium of rice shochu distillation remnants with Aspergillus oryzae were obtained, although no inhibitory effect was observed in the case of synthetic medium. We therefore fractionated the medium of rice shochu distillation remnants with A. oryzae using anion-exchange and reverse-phase chromatography. Furthermore, we attempted to determine the chemical structure of compounds that showed high inhibitory effects on the growth of tumor cells. The chemical structure of 1-hydroxy-6-(1-methylpropyl)-3-(2-methylproryl)-2(1H)-pyrazinone was revealed on the basis of liquid and gas mass spectroscopies. This compound should be completely safe based on toxic test results using model mice.
16682512	C-reactive protein (CRP), a nonspecific inflammatory marker, is widely used to monitor treatment of cardiovascular diseases (high serum CRP levels indicate poor outcome of heart disease). A healthy lifestyle decreases serum CRP levels, while obesity, physical inactivity, and smoking increase them. CRP, a stable pentameric protein, has a half-life of 19 hr, is not subject to diurnal variation, and can serve as a marker of wellness and a candidate for future direct access testing for people monitoring their health after adopting a healthier lifestyle. The CRP level may be influenced more by lifestyle than by genetics. Monozygotic twins may not have the same CRP level; within each twin pair, the one with higher adiposity generally has a higher CRP level than the one with low adiposity. Chronic diseases generally have a lower prevalence among Asians than among Westerners. Asians also have lower CRP levels than Westerners. In large population studies, the median CRP level of Asians is only one-tenth that of Westerners. Is there a factor in the lifestyle or diet of Asians that accounts for lower CRP levels? For example, a statin inhibitor of cholesterol synthesis occurs in red yeast rice, an important component of the Asian diet. In summary, CRP is a marker for monitoring cardiovascular therapy and assessing the wellness of the general population. Through improving health and preventing disease, CRP testing may help lower a nation's health costs.
16682812	Salt tolerance was evaluated at the young seedling stage of rice (Oryza sativa L.) using recombinant inbred lines (MG RILs) from a cross between Milyang 23 (japonica/indica) and Gihobyeo (japonica). 22 of 164 MG RILs were classified as tolerant with visual scores of 3.5-5.0 in 0.7% NaCl. Interval mapping of QTLs related to salt tolerance was conducted on the basis of the visual scores at the young seedling stage. Two QTLs, qST1 and qST3, conferring salt tolerance, were detected on chromosome 1 and 3, respectively, and the total phenotypic variance explained by the two QTLs was 36.9% in the MG RIL population. qST1 was the major QTL explaining 27.8% of the total phenotypic variation. qST1 was flanked by Est12-RZ569A, and qST3 was flanked by RG179-RZ596. The detection of new QTLs associated with salt tolerance will provide important information for the functional analysis of rice salt tolerance.
16682825	Even though Ac/Ds gene-tagging systems have been established in many higher plants, maize is the only major plant in which short-distance transposition of Ac/Ds has been utilized to probe gene function. This study was performed to evaluate the efficiency of obtaining new alleles and functional revertants from Ds insertion loci in rice. By analyzing 1,580 plants and the progeny of selected lines, the insertion sites and orientations of Ds elements within 16 new heritable alleles of three rice loci were identified and characterized. Intragenic transposition was detected in both directions from the original insertion sites. The closest interval was 35 bp. Three of the alleles had two Ds elements in cis configuration in the same transcription units. We also analyzed the excision footprints of intragenic and extragenic transpositions in Ds-inserted alleles at 5 loci. The 134 footprints obtained from different plants revealed predominant patterns. Ds excision at each locus left a predominant footprint at frequencies of 30-75%. Overall, 66% of the footprints were 7-bp additions. In addition, 16% of the excisions left 0-, 3-, 6-, and 9-bp additions with the potential of conserving reading frame.
16683913	Vesicle traffic is essential for cell homeostasis, growth and development in plants, as it is in other eukaryotes, and is facilitated by a superfamily of proteins known as soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptors (SNAREs). Although SNAREs are well-conserved across phylla, genomic analysis for two model angiosperm species available to date, rice and Arabidopsis, highlights common patterns of divergence from other eukaryotes. These patterns are associated with the expansion of some gene subfamilies of SNAREs, the absence of others and the appearance of new proteins that show no significant homologies to SNAREs of mammals, yeast or Drosophila. Recent findings indicate that the functions of these plant SNAREs also extend beyond the conventional 'housekeeping' activities associated with vesicle trafficking. A number of SNAREs have been implicated in environmental responses as diverse as stomata movements and gravisensing as well as sensitivity to salt and drought. These proteins are essential for signal transduction and response and, in most cases, appear also to maintain additional roles in membrane trafficking. One common theme to this added functionality lies in control of non-SNARE proteins, notably ion channels. Other examples include interactions between the SNAREs and scaffolding or other structural components within the plant cell.
16684109	Burkholderia plantarii is a plant pathogen responsible for causing rice seedling blight. The molecular mechanisms responsible for this pathogenicity are currently unknown. In this study, we report the identification and characterization of N-acyl homoserine lactone quorum sensing and the stationary phase RpoS sigma factor of B. plantarii. Both global regulatory systems are involved in causing rice seedling blight. This is the first report of gene regulators of B. plantarii implicated in the disease.
16684113	A regulatory protein HrpXo of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight of rice, is known to control the expression of hrp genes that encode components of a type III secretion system and of some effector protein genes. In this study, we screened novel HrpXo regulons from the genome database of X. oryzae pv. oryzae, searching for ORFs preceded by two predicted sequence motifs, a plant-inducible promoter box-like sequence and a -10 box-like sequence. Using a gus reporter system, nine of 15 ORF candidates were expressed HrpXo dependently. We also showed by base-substituted mutagenesis that both motifs are essential for the expression of the genes.
16684237	Adventitious roots of rice (Oryza sativa) acclimatize to root-zone O(2) deficiency by increasing porosity, and induction of a barrier to radial O(2) loss (ROL) in basal zones, to enhance longitudinal O(2) diffusion towards the root tip. Changes in root-zone gas composition that might induce these acclimatizations, namely low O(2), elevated ethylene, ethylene-low O(2) interactions, and high CO(2), were evaluated in hydroponic experiments. Neither low O(2) (0 or 0.028 mol m(-3) O(2)), ethylene (0.2 or 2.0 microl l(-1)), or combinations of these treatments, induced the barrier to ROL. This lack of induction of the barrier to ROL was despite a positive response of aerenchyma formation to low O(2) and elevated ethylene. Carbon dioxide at 10 kPa had no effect on root porosity, the barrier to ROL, or on growth. Our findings that ethylene does not induce the barrier to ROL in roots of rice, even though it can enhance aerenchyma formation, shows that these two acclimatizations for improved root aeration are differentially regulated.
16684246	Unisexuality has evolved repeatedly in flowering plants, but its genetic control is not understood in most cases. In maize (Zea mays), unisexual flower development is regulated by a short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase protein, TASSELSEED2 (TS2), but its role in other grass lineages is unknown. TS2 was cloned and sequenced from a broad range of grasses and compared to available sequences from other flowering plants using phylogenetic analysis and tests for selection. Gene expression was investigated using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and in situ hybridization. TS2 orthologs appear to be restricted to monocots. The TS2 protein sequence was found to be generally under purifying selection in bisexual and unisexual lineages alike. Only one site, in unisexual herbaceous bamboos, is potentially under positive selection. TS2 was expressed broadly in all sampled tissues of unisexual and bisexual grasses, and was also expressed in rice flowers in floral organs that do not abort. TS2 may have a more general developmental role in most grasses than programmed cell death of the developing gynoecium, but has been co-opted to this role within a subset of Poaceae, probably as a result of alterations in the activity or regulation of other genes in the gynoecial pathway.
16684354	Continuous land cover modification is an important part of spatial epidemiology because it can help identify environmental factors and Culex mosquitoes associated with arbovirus transmission and thus guide control intervention. The aim of this study was to determine whether remotely sensed data could be used to identify rice-related Culex quinquefasciatus breeding habitats in three rice-villages within the Mwea Rice Scheme, Kenya. We examined whether a land use land cover (LULC) classification based on two scenes, IKONOS at 4 m and Landsat Thematic Mapper at 30 m could be used to map different land uses and rice planted at different times (cohorts), and to infer which LULC change were correlated to high density Cx. quinquefasciatus aquatic habitats. We performed a maximum likelihood unsupervised classification in Erdas Imagine V8.7 and generated three land cover classifications, rice field, fallow and built environment. Differentially corrected global positioning systems (DGPS) ground coordinates of Cx. quinquefasciatus aquatic habitats were overlaid onto the LULC maps generated in ArcInfo 9.1. Grid cells were stratified by levels of irrigation (well-irrigated and poorly-irrigated) and varied according to size of the paddy. Total LULC change between 1988-2005 was 42.1 % in Kangichiri, 52.8 % in Kiuria and and 50.6 % Rurumi. The most frequent LULC changes was rice field to fallow and fallow to rice field. The proportion of aquatic habitats positive for Culex larvae in LULC change sites was 77.5% in Kangichiri, 72.9% in Kiuria and 73.7% in Rurumi. Poorly - irrigated grid cells displayed 63.3% of aquatic habitats among all LULC change sites. We demonstrate that optical remote sensing can identify rice cultivation LULC sites associated with high Culex oviposition. We argue that the regions of higher Culex abundance based on oviposition surveillance sites reflect underlying differences in abundance of larval habitats which is where limited control resources could be concentrated to reduce vector larval abundance.
16684934
16685061	Little is known about the relation of dietary glycemic index (GI) and glycemic load (GL) to metabolic risk factors, particularly in non-Western populations. We examined the cross-sectional associations between dietary GI and GL and several metabolic risk factors in healthy Japanese women with traditional dietary habits. The subjects were 1354 Japanese female farmers aged 20-78 y from 5 regions of Japan. Dietary GI and GL were assessed with a self-administered diet-history questionnaire. Body mass index (BMI) was calculated as weight (kg) divided by the square of height (m). Fasting blood samples were collected for biochemical measurements. The mean dietary GI was 67, and the mean dietary GL (/1000 kcal) was 88 (GI for glucose = 100). White rice (GI = 77) was the major contributor to dietary GI and GL (58.5%). After adjustment for potential dietary and nondietary confounding factors, dietary GI was positively correlated with BMI (n = 1354; P for trend = 0.017), fasting triacylglycerol (n = 1349; P for trend = 0.001), fasting glucose (n = 764; P for trend = 0.022), and glycated hemoglobin (n = 845; P for trend = 0.038). Dietary GL was independently negatively correlated with HDL cholesterol (n = 1354; P for trend = 0.004) and positively correlated with fasting triacylglycerol (P for trend = 0.047) and fasting glucose (P for trend = 0.012). Both dietary GI and GL are independently correlated with several metabolic risk factors in subjects whose dietary GI and GL were primarily determined on the basis of the GI of white rice.
16685062	The need to gain insight into prevailing eating patterns and their health effects is evident. This study aimed to identify dietary patterns and their relation to total mortality in older Dutch women. A principal component analysis of 22 food groups was used to identify dietary patterns in 5427 women aged 60-69 y who were included in the Dutch European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition-Elderly cohort (follow-up: approximately 8.2 y). Mortality ratios for 3 major principal components were assessed by using Cox proportional hazard analysis. The most relevant principal components were a Mediterranean-like dietary pattern (high intakes of vegetable oils, pasta and rice, sauces, fish, and wine), a Traditional Dutch dinner dietary pattern (high intakes of meat, potatoes, vegetables, and alcoholic beverages), and a Healthy Traditional Dutch dietary pattern (healthy variant of the Traditional Dutch dinner dietary pattern; high intakes of vegetables, fruit, nonalcoholic drinks, dairy products, and potatoes). Differences in mean intakes between the highest and lowest tertiles of the 3 patterns were greatest for fruit, dairy products, potatoes, and alcoholic beverages. Consumption of Mediterranean foods, such as fish and oils, was relatively low overall. Two hundred seventy-seven deaths occurred in 44,667 person-years. Independent of age, education, and other lifestyle factors, only the Healthy Traditional dietary pattern score was associated with a lower mortality rate. Women in the highest tertile of this pattern experienced a 30% reduction in mortality risk. A Healthy Traditional Dutch diet, rather than a Mediterranean diet, appears beneficial for longevity and feasible for health promotion in older Dutch women. This diet is comparable with other reported healthy or prudent diets that have been shown to be protective against morbidity or mortality.
16686134	To clarify factors causing mortality of Leptocorisa chinensis Dallas (Hemiptera: Alydidae) eggs in rice fields, sentinel egg masses were exposed for seven days in two rice, Oryza sativa L. (Poaceae), fields. An insecticide was sprayed to remove natural enemies in one-half of each field before exposing egg masses to predation. An egg mass containing 14 eggs was glued to a plastic label, and 21 egg masses each were placed in the sprayed and unsprayed control plots. During exposure, the number of hatched and missing eggs was observed daily. Egg predators were sampled in the fields before and after insecticide application. After the egg masses were retrieved from the fields, mortality factors of the unhatched eggs were assessed in the laboratory. The mean number of hatched and missing eggs was not significantly different between the sprayed and control plots in field A. In field B, however, the numbers were significantly different. The percentage of missing eggs in damaged egg masses ranged from 80 to 100%. In the laboratory, we observed that feeding marks caused by the grasshopper Conocephalus chinensis (Redtenbacher) were similar to those on the eggs exposed in the rice fields. The density of C. chinensis was low in control plots of field A. In contrast, the density was high in those of field B. These observations suggest that the density of egg predators, e.g., C. chinensis, is a mortality factor of L. chinensis eggs in rice fields.
16686176	Using the static opaque chamber method, a field experiment was conducted in situ for two years to study the effects of three cultivation systems on CH4 and N2O emissions from permanently flooded rice fields in a hilly area in Southwest China. The results show that the average CH4 fluxes from a permanently flooded rice field with a single middle rice crop and flooded with no winter crop (PF) were (21.44 +/- 1.77) mg x (m2 x h)(-1) and (3.77 +/- 0.99) mg x (m2 x h)(-1) during rice-growing and non-rice growing periods, respectively, where both values were much lower than many previous reports from similar regions in Southwest China. The annual CH4 emission was mainly occurred in the rice growing period, being only 23.2% of the total annual CH4 flux emitted from the non-rice growing period, though the latter occupied two thirds of a year. The annual average flux of nitrous oxide was (0.051 +/- 0.008) mg x (m2 x h)(-1) and the N2O emission also intensive in the rice growing period. However, being only 8.1% of total annual N2O flux emitted from the non-rice growing period. After implementing the rice-wheat rotation (RW) and rice oil-seed rape rotation (RR), the CH4 emissions were reduced substantially, only 43.8% and 40.6% of those of PF, respectively. However, the N2O emissions were increased after conducting RW and RR systems, which were 3.7 and 4.5 times larger than those of PF. The global warming potentials (GWPs) of the CH4 and N2O emissions under the three tillage-cropping systems were assessed in an integrated way. The results show that the integrated GWPs of the CH4 and N2O emissions are in the following sequence: PF>RR approximately equal to RR. Within 20, 100 and 500 years spans, the GWPs of the CH4 and N2O emissions of PF were 2.6, 2.1 and 1.7 times larger than those of RW (or RR), respectively. After introducing rice-wheat or rice oil-seed rape rotation systems into the permanently flooded rice fields, the integrated GWPs of the CH4 and N2O emissions were decreased largely.
16686894
16689935	Rad51 and disrupted meiotic cDNA1 (Dmc1) are the two eukaryotic DNA recombinases that participate in homology search and strand exchange reactions during homologous recombination mediated DNA repair. Rad51 expresses in both mitotic and meiotic tissues whereas Dmc1 is confined to meiosis. DNA binding and pairing activities of Oryza sativa disrupted meiotic cDNA1 (OsDmc1) from rice have been reported earlier. In the present study, DNA renaturation and strand exchange activities of OsDmc1 have been studied, in real time and without the steps of deproteinization, using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). The extent as well as the rate of renaturation is the highest in conditions that contain ATP, but significantly less when ATP is replaced by slowly hydrolysable analogues of ATP, namely adenosine 5'-(beta,gamma-imido) triphosphate (AMP-PNP) or adenosine 5'-O-(3-thio triphosphate) (ATP-gamma-S), where the former was substantially poorer than the latter in facilitating the renaturation function. FRET assay results also revealed OsDmc1 protein concentration dependent strand exchange function, where the activity was the fastest in the presence of ATP, whereas in the absence of a nucleotide cofactor it was several fold (approximately 15-fold) slower. Interestingly, strand exchange, in reactions where ATP was replaced with AMP-PNP or ATP-gamma-S, was somewhat slower than that of even minus nucleotide cofactor control. Notwithstanding the slow rates, the reactions with no nucleotide cofactor or with ATP-analogues did reach the same steady state level as seen in ATP reaction. FRET changes were unaffected by the steps of deproteinization following OsDmc1 reaction, suggesting that the assay results reflected stable events involving exchanges of homologous DNA strands. All these results, put together, suggest that OsDmc1 catalyses homologous renaturation as well as strand exchange events where ATP hydrolysis seems to critically decide the rates of the reaction system. These studies open up new facets of a plant recombinase function in relation to the role of ATP hydrolysis.
16690022	For accurate and reliable gene expression results, normalization of real-time PCR data is required against a control gene, which displays highly uniform expression in living organisms during various phases of development and under different environmental conditions. We assessed the gene expression of 10 frequently used housekeeping genes, including 18S rRNA, 25S rRNA, UBC, UBQ5, UBQ10, ACT11, GAPDH, eEF-1alpha, eIF-4a, and beta-TUB, in a diverse set of 25 rice samples. Their expression varied considerably in different tissue samples analyzed. The expression of UBQ5 and eEF-1alpha was most stable across all the tissue samples examined. However, 18S and 25S rRNA exhibited most stable expression in plants grown under various environmental conditions. Also, a set of two genes was found to be better as control for normalization of the data. The expression of these genes (with more uniform expression) can be used for normalization of real-time PCR results for gene expression studies in a wide variety of samples in rice.
16690627	Isoflavonoids are derived from a flavonone intermediate, naringenin, that is ubiquitously present in plants, and play a critical role in plant development and defence response. Isoflavonoids secreted by the legumes also play an important role in promoting the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules by symbiotic rhizobia. In these plants, the key enzyme that redirects phenylpropanoid pathway intermediates from flavonoids to isoflavonoids is the cytochrome P450 mono-oxygenase, isoflavone synthase. In an effort to develop a rice variety possessing the ability to induce nodulation (nod) genes in rhizobia, the IFS gene from soybean was incorporated into rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Murasaki R86) under the control of the 35S promoter. The presence of IFS in transgenic rice was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analysis. Analyses of the 35S-IFS transgenic lines demonstrated that the expression of the IFS gene led to the production of the isoflavone genistein in rice tissues. These results showed that the soybean IFS gene-expressed enzyme is active in the R86 rice plant, and that the naringenin intermediate of the anthocyanin pathway is available as a substrate for the introduced foreign enzyme. The genistein produced in rice cells was present in a glycoside form, indicating that endogenous glycosyltransferases were capable of recognizing genistein as a substrate. Studies with rhizobia demonstrated that the expression of isoflavone synthase confers rice plants with the ability to produce flavonoids that are able to induce nod gene expression, albeit to varied degrees, in different rhizobia.
16695557
16696297	In a preliminary study, samples of millet (n =33) maize (n=41), rice (n=10) and peanuts (n=10) from Cte d'Ivoire were analysed for ochratoxin A (OTA) by HPLC with fluorimetric detection, followed by confirmation by cleavage of the OTA molecule using carboxypeptidase with HPLC separation and fluorimetric quantification of the released ochratoxin alpha (OTh). With the exception of four samples of peanuts, all samples showed OTA contamination, ranging from 3 to 1738 microg/kg. All cereals were contaminated and the OTA concentrations were in the range of 17-204 microg/kg for millet, 3-1738 microg/kg for maize, 9-92 microg/kg for rice and 0.6-64 microg/kg for peanuts, depending on the year of harvest. Most of the samples would not be accepted according to the EU regulatory limits for this mycotoxin. Following this survey, research for other mycotoxins and the evaluation of the exposure of the population is underway.
16697378	RPLKPW is a potent anti-hypertensive peptide designed according to the structure of ovokinin(2-7) (RADHPF). In this study, we generated transgenic rice plants that accumulate the RPLKPW peptide as a fusion protein with the rice storage protein glutelin. The engineered peptide is expressed under the control of endosperm-specific glutelin promoters and specifically accumulates in seeds. Oral administration of either the RPLKPW-glutelin fraction or transgenic rice seeds to spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) significantly reduced systolic blood pressures. These results suggest the possible application of transgenic rice seed as a nutraceutical delivery system and specifically for administration of active peptides in hypertension.
16697497	Food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) is a non-IgE-mediated allergic reaction, usually to cow's milk or soy protein. The aim is to present a series of infants with enterocolitis syndrome developed after rice ingestion. To our knowledge, the issue has only once been described in patients from Europe. Data on five patients were retrospectively analyzed. The patients presented with vomiting, diarrhea and dehydration; therefore, allergy was not considered as a diagnosis and the patients underwent broad diagnostic evaluation. Finally, an open food challenge was performed for suspicion of rice allergy. Detailed clinical and laboratory findings are presented. As all patients had symptoms which could have been indicative of a broad spectrum of diseases, a median of two hospitalizations was needed to establish the diagnosis. When the rice protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome is suspected all patients should undergo open food challenge test, as no other diagnostic procedure can confirm the diagnosis. This report shows that even hypoallergenic foods such as rice may cause FPIES and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of profuse vomiting and prostration in infants introduced to some kind of rice protein.
1669788
16698062	Water samples were collected at 17 sites in Kahokugata Water Basin, a closed water basin in central Japan. We determined the concentration of dioxins of the water samples. Linear relationships between toxic equivalent (TEQ) concentrations of dioxin and concentrations of suspended solid (SS) were obtained at sites in Kahokugata Lagoon and in the rivers flowing into the lagoon. Homologue composition of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and dibenzofurans (PCDFs) indicated that all the water samples were still strongly influenced by chlorinated herbicides, such as chloronitrofen (CNP) and pentachlorophenol (PCP) that had been widely used in rice fields. The main isomer distributions of the PCDD homologues were not significantly different among the sampling sites, while the main isomer distributions of the PCDF homologues were considerably different among the sampling sites. At a few sampling points in the downstream part of one of the rivers, high concentrations of 1,3,6,7,8-pentachloro dibenzofuran (1,3,6,7,8-PeCDF) and its related isomers (1,3,6,8-chlorine-substituted PCDFs) were traced to a dye manufacturing plant. These non-toxic isomers are usually only minor constituents in environmental water samples and are not indicators of any known dioxin sources. The dyeing discharge was found to make a contribution only in the water samples collected near the plant and the seasonal variation of the contribution might depend on the flow rate of the river.
16699096	Two experiments were conducted to determine the apparent ileal digestibility (AID) and standardized ileal digestibility (SID) of AA and DE, and to estimate ME and NE of rice protein concentrate, salmon protein hydrolysate, whey protein concentrate, and spray-dried plasma protein. In Exp. 1, 6 barrows (initially 29.5 +/- 2.5 kg of BW) were fitted with ileal T-cannulas and fed each of 5 cornstarch-based diets in a balanced crossover design over 35 d. During a given week, there were either 1 or 2 replications of each treatment, resulting in 6 total replications over 5 wk. The 4 test diets (fed from d 0 to 28) were formulated to contain 12.5% CP by using analyzed nutrient compositions of rice protein concentrate, salmon protein hydrolysate, whey protein concentrate, or spray-dried plasma protein. The fifth (N-free) diet was fed from d 28 to 35 to estimate basal endogenous losses of CP and AA, which were used to calculate SID. Ileal digesta were collected and analyzed, and AID and SID values were calculated. Apparent ileal digestible Lys, Met, and Thr values were 80.0 +/- 3.3, 65.6 +/- 3.1, and 68.4 +/- 4.5% for rice protein concentrate; 85.6 +/- 4.8, 85.5 +/- 4.3, and 69.8 +/- 8.5% for salmon protein hydrolysate; 93.3 +/- 1.4, 89.9 +/- 5.8, and 83.6 +/- 5.3% for whey protein concentrate; and 92.8 +/- 0.9, 85.7 +/- 2.1, 86.5 +/- 2.3% for spray-dried plasma protein, respectively. In Exp. 2, 6 barrows (initially 37.6 +/- 1.7 kg of BW) were fed each of 5 corn-based diets in a balanced crossover design over 35 d. During a given week, there were either 1 or 2 replications of each treatment, resulting in 6 total replications over 5 wk. The 4 diets containing the test ingredients were formulated to contain approximately 20% CP by using their analyzed nutrient compositions. The fifth (corn control) diet containing 8.2% CP was also used to calculate energy values by difference. Feces were collected to determine DE. The ME and NE contents were estimated using published regression equations. The DE, ME, and NE (as-fed) values were 4,724 +/- 461, 4,226 +/- 437, and 3,235 +/- 380 kcal/kg for rice protein concentrate; 4,173 +/- 1,052, 3,523 +/- 1,002, and 2,623 +/- 872 kcal/kg for salmon protein hydrolysate; 4,949 +/- 1,002, 4,352 +/- 955, and 3,344 +/- 831 kcal/kg for whey protein concentrate; and 4,546 +/- 673, 3,979 +/- 652, and 3,020 +/- 567 kcal/kg for spray-dried plasma protein, respectively. The excellent AA digestibility and relatively high DE, ME, and NE values indicate that these protein sources warrant further investigation as ingredients for growing pig diets.
16699546	To understand the expansion of multicopy microRNA (miRNA) families in plants, we localized the reported miRNA genes from Arabidopsis and rice to their chromosomes, respectively, and observed that 37% of 117 miRNA genes from Arabidopsis and 35% of 173 miRNA genes from rice were segmental duplications in the genome. In order to characterize whether the expression diversification has occurred among plant multicopy miRNA family members, we designed PCR primers targeting 48 predicted miRNA precursors from 10 families in Arabidopsis and rice. Results from RT-PCR data suggest that the transcribed precursors of members within the same miRNA family were present at different expression levels. In addition, although miR160 and miR162 sequences were conserved in Arabidopsis and rice, we found that the expression patterns of these genes differed between the two species. These data suggested that expression diversification has occurred in multicopy miRNA families, increasing our understanding of the expression regulation of miRNAs in plants.
16699863
16702306	A rice bran oil (RBO) diet can reduce plasma lipids; this was attributed to the specific components, gamma-oryzanol and gamma-tocotrienol, which individually were shown to be hypocholesterolemic; however, the mechanism of their effects on diabetic hyperlipidemia and the development of diabetes is not known. Rats with streptozotocin/nicotinamide-induced type 2 diabetes were divided into control, RO10, and RO15 groups, and fed cholesterol-free diets containing 0, 10, and 15 g RBO with 0, 352, and 528 g gamma-oryzanol and 0, 6.0 and 9.0 mg gamma-tocotrienol/100 g diet for 4 wk. Diabetic rats fed the RBO diet had greater insulin sensitivity (P = 0.02) than rats fed the control diet. Diabetic rats fed the RBO diet also had lower plasma triglyceride (P = 0.003), LDL cholesterol (P = 0.028), and hepatic triglyceride concentrations (P = 0.04), as well as greater fecal neutral sterol and bile acid excretion than those fed the control diet. After 4 wk, there was an approximately 100% (P < 0.001) increase in the abundance of hepatic cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase, an 89% (P < 0.001) increase in the hepatic LDL-receptor, and a 50% (P < 0.001) increase in hepatic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase mRNA in rats fed the RBO diet compared with those fed the control diet. These findings support the conclusion that a rice bran oil-containing diet can significantly suppress hyperlipidemic and hyperinsulinemic responses in diabetic rats. The high contents of gamma-oryzanol and gamma-tocotrienol in RBO can lead to increased fecal neutral sterol and bile acid excretion, via upregulation of cholesterol synthesis and catabolism.
16702555	Complete resistance (CR) and partial resistance (PR) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) to its bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), was genetically dissected by using 2 mapping populations and 10 Xoo races. Two CR genes, 50 quantitative resistance loci, and 60 digenic interactions were identified, which showed various degrees of race specificity to the Xoo races. The complex epistasis between these loci led us to the discovery of complex genetic networks underlying the rice defensive system to Xoo. The networks consisted of two major components: one representing interactions between alleles at the R loci of rice and alleles at the corresponding avirulence loci of Xoo for CR and the other comprising interactions between quantitative resistance loci in rice and their corresponding aggressiveness loci in Xoo for PR. The race specificity of PR and its strong genetic overlap with CR indicate that PR is essentially "weaker" CR. The genetic networks discovered are expected to maintain a high level of the allelic diversity at avirulent loci in the pathogen by stabilizing selection, which may maintain a high allelic diversity at R loci in the host by the frequency-dependent selection.
16704112	By using high-pressure treatment, two mutant lines were obtained from a genetically stable japonica rice cultivar Bijing38. Genomic DNA of the mutant lines, together with the original line (Bijing38), was either undigested or digested by Hpa IIMsp I, and then subjected to molecular analysis using two markers, ISSR and RAPD. Results indicated that changes in the PCR amplification profiles of both markers are apparent in the two mutant lines compared with the original rice cultivar, suggesting that there had been both sequence changes and DNA methylation modifications in the mutant lines. Southern blot analysis using diverse sequences, including two cellular genes (S2 and S3), a set of retrotransposons (Osr7, Osr36, Tos19 and more), and a MITE transposon family (mPing and Pong), confirmed the results, and indicated that changes in DNA methylation pattern, genomic structure, and possible activation of some transposons indeed occurred in the mutant lines. Moreover, these changes are stably maintained through selfed generations and in different organs. Thus, our results indicate that it is possible to obtain stable mutants in rice by high pressure treatments, and the molecular basis of the mutants may include both genetic and epigenetic changes. Therefore, high hydrostatic pressure seems a promising approach for plant mutagenesis.
167047	Quantitative and concurrent determinations of penicillic acid and patulin have been achieved after separation of these compounds, as their trimethylsilyl derivatives, by gas-liquid chromatography with electron-capture detection and a column of 10% of DC-200 plus 15% of QF-1 on Gas-Chrom Q; the minimum determinable amounts of penicillic acid and patulin were 0.05 and 0.1 ng, respectively. The procedure devised for determining these compounds in grain involves extraction with solvents, followed by further clean-up by thin-layer chromatography; the detection limit of this procedure is about 0.02 ppm, and recovery at the level of 0.05 ppm is about 90%. The significant separation of penicillic acid and patulin produced in moldy rice is demonstrated on the gas chromatograms, and this makes possible a micro-assay for these toxic compounds in contaminated grain.
16705837	Water management and competition between users in water scarce river basins is a major challenge facing the human race. The inter dependence of users in such basins, necessitates a clear understanding of each user in relation to the location, the water demand, and the duration of water need. The understanding of these factors, together, is very important for the management of water resources in such basins without which, it is argued that, water is overused and wasted. As an example of this, the large modern and improved rice irrigation systems in Tanzania are believed to use water more efficient than the traditional irrigation systems. Yet, well-founded scientific analyses are a necessary part to quantify such beliefs as they can inform us whether the natural resource, in such systems, is properly utilized and managed or not. Likewise, such studies can allow us to quantify how much water is over used and thus the natural resource is unnecessarily degraded. This paper explores a study conducted in the Usangu basin, Tanzania, to investigate the gross and net needs for modern and traditional rice irrigation schemes, and the implications with regards to water resource management and damage. Problems relating to modernization of traditional smallholder irrigation systems and upstream--downstream water users are further discussed. The paper concludes from the study that modern irrigation schemes are inefficient compared to traditional irrigation schemes. Also modernization of traditional schemes in the study area have resulted into over abstraction and reduced productivity of water. Looking to the future, this study tells us that improvement or modernization of irrigation infrastructure should be balanced between negative impacts to available water resources albeit it's significant economic contribution to the community.
16706045	Employing emergy value evaluation method, this paper compared the ecological and economic benefits of rice-duck organic farming system (mode I) and conventional rice-wheat rotation system (mode II) in Shanghai suburb. The results showed that mode I had better emergy benefits, higher self-organizing ability and sustainability, and higher product safety. The net emergy yield ratio (EYR), feedback ratio of yield emergy (FYE), and emergy sustainable index (ESI) of mode I were respectively 1.57, 14.1, and 8.71 times as much as those of mode II, and the emergy index of product safety (EIPS) was 0 in mode I but -0.66 in mode II. The emergy investment ratio (EIR) and environmental loading ratio (ELR) of mode I were 40.1% and 18.3% of mode II, respectively, suggesting that mode I had less environmental pressure than mode II. Mode I had lower economic benefits than mode II. The economic output, gross income, and net income of mode I were 15.7%, 9.6%, and 29.6% less than those of mode II , respectively. As for Em dollars, the output, gross income, and net income of mode I were respectively 50%, 102.6%, and 136.4% higher than those of mode II. With the system optimization and the development of organic food market, mode I had the potential to improve its economic benefits.
16707243	Small auxin-up RNAs (SAURs) are the early auxin-responsive genes represented by a large multigene family in plants. Here, we report the identification of 58 OsSAUR gene family members from rice (Oryza sativa japonica cv Nipponbare), the model monocot plant, by a reiterative database search and manual reannotation; 2 of these are pseudogenes. The coding sequences of OsSAURs do not possess any intron. Most of the predicted OsSAUR protein sequences harbor a putative nuclear localization signal at their N-terminus. Localized gene duplications appear to be the primary genetic event responsible for SAUR gene family expansion in rice. Interestingly, the duplication of OsSAURs was found to be associated with the chromosomal block duplication as well. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that the SAUR gene family expanded in rice and Arabidopsis due to species-specific expansion of the family in monocots and dicots. The auxin-responsive elements and downstream element are conserved in the upstream and downstream sequences, respectively, of OsSAURs. In addition to the 21 OsSAURs with full-length cDNA sequences and 20 with expressed sequence tags, gene expression analyses of at least 7 OsSAURs by RT-qPCR indicated that the majority of identified OsSAURs most likely are expressed in rice. The transcript abundance of the OsSAURs examined increased within a few minutes of exogenous auxin application with varying kinetics. The present study provides basic genomic information for the rice SAUR gene family and will pave the way for deciphering the precise role of SAURs in plant growth and development.
16709194	The S-locus F-box (SLF/SFB) protein, recently identified as the pollen determinant of S-RNase-based self-incompatibility (SI) in Solanaceae, Scrophulariaceae and Rosaceae, has been proposed to serve as the subunit of an SCF (SKP1-CUL1-F-box) ubiquitin ligase and to target its pistil counterpart S-RNase during the SI response. However, the underlying mechanism is still in dispute, and the putative SLF-binding SKP1-equivalent protein remains unknown. Here, we report the identification of AhSSK1, Antirrhinum hispanicumSLF-interacting SKP1-like1, using a yeast two-hybrid screen against a pollen cDNA library. GST pull-down assays confirmed the SSK1-SLF interaction, and showed that AhSSK1 could connect AhSLF to a CUL1-like protein. AhSSK1, despite having a similar secondary structure to other SKP1-like proteins, appeared quite distinctive in sequence and unique in a phylogenetic analysis, in which no SSK1 ortholog could be predicted in the sequenced genomes of Arabidopsis and rice. Thus, our results suggest that the pollen-specific SSK1 could be recruited exclusively as the adaptor of putative SCF(SLF) in those plants with S-RNase-based SI, providing an important clue to dissecting the function of the pollen determinant.
16709195	Rice blast, caused by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, is one of the most devastating diseases in rice worldwide. The dominant resistance gene, Pi-d2 [previously named Pi-d(t)2], present in the rice variety Digu, confers gene-for-gene resistance to the Chinese blast strain, ZB15. Pi-d2 was previously mapped close to the centromere of chromosome 6. In this study, the Pi-d2 gene was isolated by a map-based cloning strategy. Pi-d2 encodes a receptor-like kinase protein with a predicted extracellular domain of a bulb-type mannose specific binding lectin (B-lectin) and an intracellular serine-threonine kinase domain. Pi-d2 is a single-copy gene that is constitutively expressed in the rice variety Digu. Transgenic plants carrying the Pi-d2 transgene confer race-specific resistance to the M. grisea strain, ZB15. The Pi-d2 protein is plasma membrane localized. A single amino acid difference at position 441 of Pi-d2 distinguishes resistant and susceptible alleles of rice blast resistance gene Pi-d2. Because of its novel extracellular domain, Pi-d2 represents a new class of plant resistance genes.
16709201	Three gibberellin (GA) receptor genes (AtGID1a, AtGID1b and AtGID1c), each an ortholog of the rice GA receptor gene (OsGID1), were cloned from Arabidopsis, and the characteristics of their recombinant proteins were examined. The GA-binding activities of the three recombinant proteins were confirmed by an in vitro assay. Biochemical analyses revealed similar ligand selectivity among the recombinants, and all recombinants showed higher affinity to GA(4) than to other GAs. AtGID1b was unique in its binding affinity to GA(4) and in its pH dependence when compared with the other two, by only showing binding in a narrow pH range (pH 6.4-7.5) with 10-fold higher affinity (apparent K(d) for GA(4) = 3 x 10(-8) m) than AtGID1a and AtGID1c. A two-hybrid yeast system only showed in vivo interaction in the presence of GA(4) between each AtGID1 and the Arabidopsis DELLA proteins (AtDELLAs), negative regulators of GA signaling. For this interaction with AtDELLAs, AtGID1b required only one-tenth of the amount of GA(4) that was necessary for interaction between the other AtGID1s and AtDELLAs, reflecting its lower K(d) value. AtDELLA boosted the GA-binding activity of AtGID1 in vitro, which suggests the formation of a complex between AtDELLA and AtGID1-GA that binds AtGID1 to GA more tightly. The expression of each AtGID1 clone in the rice gid1-1 mutant rescued the GA-insensitive dwarf phenotype. These results demonstrate that all three AtGID1s functioned as GA receptors in Arabidopsis.
16713076	A solid phase extraction method was developed for the preconcentration and separation of trace amounts of chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt, copper, cadmium and lead from environmental samples by complexation with alpha-benzoin oxime followed by adsorption onto Diaion SP-850-solid phase extraction column. One molar per liter HNO(3) was used as eluent. The recoveries of analytes at pH 8.0 with 700 mg of resin were greater than 95% without interference from alkaline, earth alkaline and some metal ions. The detection limits by three sigma for analyte ions were 0.65 microg l(-1) for Cr(III), 0.42 microg l(-1) for Mn(II), 0.28 microg l(-1) for Fe(III), 0.73 microg l(-1) for Co(II), 0.30 microg l(-1) for Cu(II), 0.47 microg l(-1) for Cd(II) and 0.50 microg l(-1) for Pb(II). The validation of the procedure was performed by the analysis of the certified standard reference materials. The presented procedure was applied to the determination of analytes in tap, river and sea waters, rice, wheat, canned tomato and coal samples with successfully results (recoveries greater than 95%, R.S.D.'s lower than 8%).
16713160	The phytochemical, pharmacological and toxicological feature of plant Rhaphidophora pertusa (Roxb.) was done. Phytosteroids, flavonoids, tannins and glucosides were detected in the plant extracts. In cross-bred (Zebu X Holstein-Friesian or Jersey) dairy cows, subsequent to prostaglandin (PG) induced oestrus, to each group (n=4), cloprostenol (PG control) 100 microg i.m. on day 10, the rice gruel (vehicle) was fed on day 10 or the fresh stem (1 kg/animal/day) in rice gruel on day 9, or days 9 and 10, or days 9-11 of the oestrous cycle. Each group received subcutaneously either 5% gum acacia suspension or the plant ethyl acetate or methanol extract (1g in gum acacia) on days 8 (to bannur ewes) or 10 (to dairy cows) of the oestrous cycle. In PG control cows or ewes, there was induction of oestrus in 48 h and a fall in serum progesterone concentration. The feeding of fresh stem in the rice gruel or the s.c. administration of the plant extract did not induce oestrus or significantly (P>0.05) alter the serum progesterone, bilirubin, calcium, creatinine, phosphorus, magnesium and glucose concentrations or the total erythrocyte and leucocyte count, differential leucocyte count and haemoglobin concentration. The plant did not cause any toxicity in the cow or ewe. In immature rats, the aqueous or methanol (hot or cold) extract did not cause any follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)-like activity. The methanol extract increased the uterine weight in ovariectomised rats. This suggested the presence of oestrogenic activity in the plant. In conclusion, the present study revealed the presence of oestrogenic activity in the plant and the absence of luteolytic or FSH-like or toxic activity.
16713234	Our laboratory has reported that the hypolipidemic effect of rice bran oil (RBO) is not entirely explained by its fatty acid composition. Because RBO has a greater content of the unsaponifiables, which also lower cholesterol compared to most vegetable oils, we wanted to know whether oryzanol or ferulic acid, two major unsaponifiables in RBO, has a greater cholesterol-lowering activity. Forty-eight F(1)B Golden Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) (BioBreeders, Watertown, MA) were group housed (three per cage) in cages with bedding in an air-conditioned facility maintained on a 12-h light/dark cycle. The hamsters were fed a chow-based hypercholesterolemic diet (HCD) containing 10% coconut oil and 0.1% cholesterol for 2 weeks, at which time they were bled after an overnight fast (16 h) and segregated into 4 groups of 12 with similar plasma cholesterol concentrations. Group 1 (control) continued on the HCD, group 2 was fed the HCD containing 10% RBO in place of coconut oil, group 3 was fed the HCD plus 0.5% ferulic acid and group 4 was fed the HCD plus 0.5% oryzanol for an additional 10 weeks. After 10 weeks on the diets, plasma total cholesterol (TC) and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) (very low- and low-density lipoprotein) concentrations were significantly lower in the RBO (-64% and -70%, respectively), the ferulic acid (-22% and -24%, respectively) and the oryzanol (-70% and -77%, respectively) diets compared to control. Plasma TC and non-HDL-C concentrations were also significantly lower in the RBO (-53% and -61%, respectively) and oryzanol (-61% and -70%, respectively) diets compared to the ferulic acid. Compared to control and ferulic acid, plasma HDL-C concentrations were significantly higher in the RBO (10% and 20%, respectively) and oryzanol (13% and 24%, respectively) diets. The ferulic acid diet had significantly lower plasma HDL-C concentrations compared to the control (-9%). The RBO and oryzanol diets were significantly lower for plasma triglyceride concentrations compared to the control (-53% and -65%, respectively) and ferulic acid (-47% and -60%, respectively) diets. Hamsters fed the control and ferulic acid diets had significantly higher plasma vitamin E concentrations compared to the RBO (201% and 161%, respectively) and oryzanol (548% and 462%, respectively) diets; the ferulic acid and oryzanol diets had significantly lower plasma lipid hydroperoxide levels than the control (-57% and -46%, respectively) diet. The oryzanol-fed hamsters excreted significantly more coprostenol and cholesterol in their feces than the ferulic acid (127% and 120%, respectively) diet. The control diet had significantly greater aortic TC and FC accumulation compared to the RBO (115% and 89%, respectively), ferulic acid (48% and 58%, respectively) and the oryzanol (74% and 70%, respectively) diets. However, only the RBO and oryzanol diets had significantly lower aortic cholesterol ester accumulation compared to the control (-73% and -46%, respectively) diet. The present study suggests that at equal dietary levels, oryzanol has a greater effect on lowering plasma non-HDL-C levels and raising plasma HDL-C than ferulic acid, possibly through a greater extent to increase fecal excretion of cholesterol and its metabolites. However, ferulic acid may have a greater antioxidant capacity via its ability to maintain serum vitamin E levels compared to RBO and oryzanol. Thus, both oryzanol and ferulic acid may exert similar antiatherogenic properties, but through different mechanisms.
16713279	Cyclin is a fundamental regulator of the plant cell cycle. Five different types of cyclin genes (the A-, B-, C-, D-, and H-types) have been reported in Oryza sativa. However, except for Os;cycA1;1, Os;cycB2;1, and Os;cycB2;2, the mechanisms of expression of these cyclin genes have not yet been studied. The interactions of cyclins with cytokinin, an important trigger for cell cycle regulation, have also not been well studied. Here we used semi-quantitative RT-PCR in rice seedlings to analyze the effect of cytokinin on photomorphogenesis and the expression of six cyclin genes. Fifteen-day-old seedlings were grown in a 16/8 h light/dark cycle and then transferred to either constant light or constant dark. The expression of all the cyclin genes tested, except the C-type, decreased after 1 hour in the dark, but did not change after transfer to the light or when kinetin was added to the medium. Similarly, seedlings grown in the dark had decreased expression of the cyclin genes, except Os;cycB2;2, after transfer to the light, a decrease that was prevented by kinetin treatment. Thus, exogenous cytokinin plays an important role in maintaining homeostasis of cyclin gene expression following rapid changes of photoperiod.
16713289	The gas-phase stabilities of Fe(Phi)3(2+) complexes, where Phi represents the 1,10-phenanthroline, 5-chloro-1,10-phenanthroline, 5-methyl-1,10-phenanthroline, 3,4,7,8-tetramethyl-1,10-phenanthroline, and 4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline ligands were investigated by collision-induced dissociation (CID) in the capillary-first skimmer region upon changing the voltage difference between the capillary and the skimmer. The loss of only one ligand from the Fe(Phi)3(2+) complexes was observed with each of the phenanthroline ligands studied. An increase in the voltage difference between the capillary and the skimmer resulted in a higher fragmentation yield as calculated from the intensity of the precursor and the fragment ion. The fragmentation yield versus capillary-skimmer voltage difference plots were evaluated by means of the Arrhenius and the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (RRK) model by fitting the model parameters to the experimental data. Both models yielded practically the same results. In addition, if the internal energy gained through the capillary-skimmer region is estimated correctly, the approximate value of the critical energy (activation energy) for fragmentation can be extracted from the fragmentation yield versus capillary-skimmer voltage difference plots. It was found that the gas-phase stabilities of the Fe(Phi)3(2+) complexes are nearly identical except for the more stable Fe(II)-4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline complex. The critical energy for fragmentation was estimated to be approximately 1.2 and 0.9 eV for the Fe(II)- 4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline, and the other complexes, respectively.
16713502	This study examined the effects of exposure to ethanol through cultural practices by lactating mothers. Specifically, the pharmacokinetics of alcohol in Chinese lactating mothers was investigated after they consumed chicken soup flavored with sesame oil and rice wine (CSSR), a typically prescribed diet during the postpartum "doing-the-month" period. Experimental findings were employed to estimate the potential ethanol dose to neonates and determine associated health risks. Twenty-three lactating mothers were examined. Informed consent was obtained from each subject. The target alcohol dosage was 0.3g/kg. Milk and blood samples were collected at fixed time intervals from each subject following exposure to CSSR, and alcohol levels were determined. Acute health risks to infants were estimated by comparing the potential infant dosage to an established criterion dose. Blood alcohol level peaked at 20 min after exposure to CSSR and decreased almost linearly thereafter. Alcohol in milk reached a plateau roughly at 20-40 min after exposure to CSSR and then decreased. Alcohol pharmacokinetics among subjects varied widely. The coefficients of variation in subject alcohol concentrations were 16.5-46.2% (mean, 30.0%) for blood and 32.8-57.6% (mean, 44.4%) for milk. Mean maximal alcohol concentration in blood (30.2+/-5.0 mg/dl) was achieved at 23.5+/-7.6 min and in milk (31.6+/-10.3 mg/dl) at 31.7+/-12.7 min. Potential infant doses were 3.0-58.8 mg (mean, 13.4 mg), and the predicted time required for milk alcohol level to return to zero level was 175 min. The acute health risks for infants exposed to alcohol through their mothers' milk under the current exposure scenario are low (hazard index<0.2). Nursing infants at least 3h after ingesting a diet containing alcohol would further reduce potential health risks.
16713614	The concentration, distribution, profile and possible source of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in soil were studied in Guiyu, an electronic waste (E-waste) recycling center, using primitive technologies in Southeast China. Sixteen USEPA priority PAHs were analyzed in 49 soil samples (0-10 cm layer) in terms of individual and total concentrations, together with soil organic matter (SOM) concentrations. The concentrations of a sum of 16 PAHs ranged from 44.8 to 3206 microgkg(-1) (dry weight basis), in the descending order of E-waste open burning sites (2065 microgkg(-1))>areas near burning sites (851microgkg(-1))>rice fields (354 microgkg(-1))>reservoir areas (125microgkg(-1)). The dominant PAHs were naphthalene, phenanthrene and fluoranthene, which were mainly derived from incomplete combustion of E-waste (e.g. wire insulations and PVC materials), and partly from coal combustion and motorcycle exhausts. All individual and total PAH concentrations were significantly correlated with SOM except for naphthalene and acenaphthylene. Principal component analysis was performed, which indicated that PAHs were mainly distributed into three groups in accordance with their ring numbers and biological and anthropogenic source. In conclusion, PAH concentrations in the Guiyu soil were affected by the primitive E-waste recycling activities.
16714407	The rice (Oryza sativa) dwarf mutant d61 phenotype is caused by loss of function of a rice BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE1 ortholog, OsBRI1. We have identified nine d61 alleles, the weakest of which, d61-7, confers agronomically important traits such as semidwarf stature and erect leaves. Because erect-leaf habit is considered to increase light capture for photosynthesis, we compared the biomass and grain production of wild-type and d61-7 rice. The biomass of wild type was 38% higher than that of d61-7 at harvest under conventional planting density because of the dwarfism of d61-7. However, the biomass of d61-7 was 35% higher than that of wild type at high planting density. The grain yield of wild type reached a maximum at middensity, but the yield of d61-7 continued to increase with planting density. These results indicate that d61-7 produces biomass more effectively than wild type, and consequently more effectively assimilates the biomass in reproductive organ development at high planting density. However, the small grain size of d61-7 counters any increase in grain yield, leading to the same grain yield as that of wild type even at high density. We therefore produced transgenic rice with partial suppression of endogenous OsBRI1 expression to obtain the erect-leaf phenotype without grain changes. The estimated grain yield of these transformants was about 30% higher than that of wild type at high density. These results demonstrate the feasibility of generating erect-leaf plants by modifying the expression of the brassinosteroid receptor gene in transgenic rice plants.
16715545	During the 2003 and 2004 olive oil production campaigns in Morocco, 136 samples from spoiled olive and olive cake were analyzed and 285 strains were isolated in pure culture. Strains included 167 mesophilic strains belonging to ten genera: Penicillium, Aspergillus, Geotrichum, Mucor, Rhizopus, Trichoderma, Alternaria, Acremonium, Humicola, Ulocladium as well as 118 thermophilic strains isolated in 2003 and 2004, mainly belonging to six species: Aspergillus fumigatus, Paecilomyces variotii, Mucor pusillus, Thermomyces lanuginosus, Humicola grisea, and Thermoascus aurantiacus. Penicillium and Aspergillus, respectively, 32.3 and 26.9% of total isolates represented the majority of mesophilic fungi isolated. When considering total strains (including thermotolerant strains) Aspergillus were the predominant strains isolated; follow-up studies on mycotoxins therefore focused primarily on aflatoxins (AFs) and ochratoxin A (OTA) from the latter strains. All isolated Aspergillus flavus strains (9) and Aspergillus niger strains (36) were studied in order to evaluate their capacity to produce AFs and OTA, respectively, when grown on starch-based culture media. Seven of the nine tested A. flavus strains isolated from olive and olive cake produced AF B1 at concentrations between 48 and 95 microg/kg of dry rice weight. As for the A. niger strains, 27 of the 36 strains produced OTA.
16716378	Uptake of dioxins was confirmed in rice plants. We determined (i) dioxin concentrations and isomer profiles in leaf+stem samples of rice plants grown in three soils with different dioxin concentrations and isomer profiles and (ii) temporal changes in dioxin concentrations and isomer profiles in rice grown in a paddy field on which agricultural chemicals containing dioxin impurities had been used in previous years. Principal-component and chemical mass-balance analyses of the data showed that dioxin concentrations and isomer profiles in the rice grown in the different soils were similar, even though the dioxin concentrations and isomer profiles of the soils were different. However, the dioxin concentrations in the rice were influenced by dioxin levels in the atmospheric gas phase. Changes in dioxin levels during the growing period of the rice were also strongly influenced by adhesion of the soil to plant components during the early stage of growth, but gradually the influence of the atmospheric gas phase became predominant. Calculated dietary uptake estimates indicated that, even in rice grown in Japan on soil contaminated with high concentrations of dioxins, the amount of dioxins ingested by humans from rice is extremely small, and the amount of dioxins ingested by livestock from forage rice is similar to that for other forage crops.
16717417	The accumulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the rice germ by using protease was investigated. After the proteolytic hydrolysis of germ protein by trypsin, the amount of GABA reached about 2.26 g per 100 g of germ. This demonstrates that the GABA yield could be significantly increased by protease. Our method is efficient and safe for manufacturing health food enriched with GABA.
1671766	In a previous paper [Suzuka, I., Daidoji, H., Matsuoka, M., Kadowaki, K., Takasaki, Y., Nakane, P. K. & Moriuchi, T. (1989) Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 86, 3189-3193], we demonstrated the presence of a rice genomic-DNA fragment which hybridized with a rat proliferating-cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) cDNA probe, and proposed that plants possess the homolog of the PCNA gene which plays an essential role in DNA replication in mammals. Here we show that the sequence of the rice PCNA gene supports this proposal. The rice gene consists of four exons. The 5'-flanking region contains a variety of sequences similar to several consensus sequences believed to be important for the regulation of gene expression in eukaryotes. Determination of the transcription-start site and the structure of the 3'-flanking region of the gene indicated that the coded mRNA is 1073 bases. The rice PCNA genomic and cDNA clones are composed of 789 nucleotides; they encode a putative protein of 263 amino acids having a molecular mass of 29275 Da. Comparison of the coding regions of rice PCNA and rat PCNA revealed about 64% similarity at the nucleotide level and about 62% similarity at the amino acid level. Furthermore, comparison of the predicted amino acid sequence of the soybean PCNA with the rice PCNA sequence indicated a high degree of similarity (88%). The structural similarity between PCNA from plants and animals, despite the distant evolutionary relationship, indicates a strong selection pressure for conservation of this structure and suggests the presence of conserved DNA-replication mechanisms throughout the eukaryotes.
16718576	Barnyard grass is a problematic weed worldwide. It competes with crops and causes reduction in crop yields. In this study, barnyard grass suppressed rice emergence, and the degree of rice inhibition was proportional to the density of barnyard grass. Root exudates of barnyard grass reduced germination and growth of lettuce, rice, and monochoria. Fifteen compounds potentially involved in the phytotoxic activities of barnyard grass were isolated and identified, including phenolics, long-chain fatty acids, lactones, diethyl phthalate, acenaphthene, and derivatives of phthalic acids, benzoic acid, and decane. Quantities of diethyl phthalate, decanoic acid, myristic acid, stearic acid, 7,8-dihydro-5,6-dehydrokavain, and 7,8-dihydrokavain were 2.7, 11.1, 19.6, 35.5, 10.3, and 15.5 microg/ml of barnyard grass root exudates, respectively. The two lactones exhibited the greatest inhibition, followed by the phenolics and the derivatives of phthalic acids. Fatty acids had stronger suppression than diethyl phthalate and ethyl ester-4-ethoxy-benzoic acid. The acenaphthene and decane derivatives were the least phytotoxic. The phytotoxins released by barnyard grass roots showed strong inhibition on growth of broadleaf indicator plants and paddy weeds, but were less effective on barnyard grass itself and rice. Our study revealed that in addition to competition, barnyard grass also interferes with rice and other plants in its surroundings by chemical means.
16718738	A comparative test was undertaken in order to identify the potential of existing mathematical models, including the rice water quality (RICEWQ) 1.6.4v model, the pesticide concentration in paddy field (PCPF-1) model and the surface water and groundwater (SWAGW) model, for calculating pesticide dissipation and exposure in rice paddies in Europe. Previous versions of RICEWQ and PCPF-1 models had been validated under European and Japanese conditions respectively, unlike the SWAGW model which was only recently developed as a tier-2 modelling tool. Two datasets, derived from field dissipation studies undertaken in northern Italy with the herbicides cinosulfuron and pretilachlor, were used for the modelling exercise. All models were parameterized according to field experimentations, as far as possible, considering their individual deficiencies. Models were not calibrated against field data in order to remove bias in the comparison of the results. RICEWQ 1.6.4v provided the highest agreement between measured and predicted pesticide concentrations in both paddy water and paddy soil, with modelling efficiency (EF) values ranging from 0.78 to 0.93. PCPF-1 simulated well the dissipation of herbicides in paddy water, but significantly underestimated the concentrations of pretilachlor, a chemical with high affinity for soil sorption, in paddy soil. SWAGW simulated relatively well the dissipation of both herbicides in paddy water, and especially pretilachlor, but failed to predict closely the pesticide dissipation in paddy soil. Both RICEWQ and SWAGW provided low groundwater (GW) predicted environmental concentrations (PECs), suggesting a low risk of GW contamination for the two herbicides. Overall, this modelling exercise suggested that RICEWQ 1.6.4v is currently the most reliable model for higher-tier exposure assessment in rice paddies in Europe. PCPF-1 and SWAGW showed promising results, but further adjustments are required before these models can be considered as strong candidates for inclusion in the higher-tier pesticide regulatory scheme.
16719002	Most of food allergy (FA) cases during childhood start as infantile atopic dermatitis (AD) at the ages of a few months old. We tried to clarify the association between infantile AD and FA during infancy. We analyzed relationship between AD and FA during infancy among patients with 208 cases, who had visited our outpatient clinic with chief complaint of "eczema" from 1998 to 2000. Among 208 cases, 148 cases (71%) were diagnosed as infantile AD, moreover 109 cases (74%) were diagnosed as FA among infantile AD. The most frequent food antigens among infantile AD were egg (72.3%), cow's milk (39.9%), wheat (12.2%) and soybean (7.4%), respectively, in addition to these food antigens, food allergy was widely recognized against peanuts, sesame, meats, buckwheat, fishes and potato. In terms of food antigen, 44 cases with single food allergy against egg were seen out of 46 single allergy cases, whereas 36 cases with double food allergy against both egg and cow's milk were seen in 63 multiple food allergy cases. Although the value of antigen specific IgE against egg and cow's milk was recognized for the diagnosis of food allergy during infancy, even cases with negative IgE against those foods were proved to be food allergy by food elimination and provocation tests. In contrast to egg and cow's milk, positive IgE against rice, soybean, and wheat did not always correlate with the results of the diagnosis of food allergy. Concerning risk factors of AD, family history of any allergy diseases and passive smoking were recognized in comparison with infantile eczema. Neither the nutrition method nor incomplete elimination of diet during pregnancy and lactation had anything to do with the development of AD. When infantile AD cases were not improved by environmental control, skin care and application of steroid ointment, it would be important for doctors to think of the possibility of FA.
16719932	Introns are under less selection pressure than exons, and consequently, intronic sequences have a higher rate of gain and loss than exons. In a number of plant species, a large portion of the genome has been segmentally duplicated, giving rise to a large set of duplicated genes. The recent completion of the rice genome in which segmental duplication has been documented has allowed us to investigate intron evolution within rice, a diploid monocotyledonous species. Analysis of segmental duplication in rice revealed that 159 Mb of the 371 Mb genome and 21,570 of the 43,719 non-transposable element-related genes were contained within a duplicated region. In these duplicated regions, 3,101 collinear paired genes were present. Using this set of segmentally duplicated genes, we investigated intron evolution from full-length cDNA-supported non-transposable element-related gene models of rice. Using gene pairs that have an ortholog in the dicotyledonous model species Arabidopsis thaliana, we identified more intron loss (49 introns within 35 gene pairs) than intron gain (5 introns within 5 gene pairs) following segmental duplication. We were unable to demonstrate preferential intron loss at the 3' end of genes as previously reported in mammalian genomes. However, we did find that the four nucleotides of exons that flank lost introns had less frequently used 4-mers. We observed that intron evolution within rice following segmental duplication is largely dominated by intron loss. In two of the five cases of intron gain within segmentally duplicated genes, the gained sequences were similar to transposable elements.
16720602	The recent release of the first tree genome (Populus trichocarpa) has allowed a comparison to be made of the multigenic glutaredoxin (Grx) and glutathione reductase (GR) families of this tree with those of other sequenced organisms and especially of the two other fully sequenced plant species, Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. Grxs are small proteins involved in disulphide bridge or protein-glutathione adduct reduction, and they are maintained in a reduced form using glutathione and an NADPH-dependent GR. While the P. trichocarpa and O. sativa genomes are nearly five times larger than that of A. thaliana, they contain approximately 45 000 and 37 500 genes compared with the 25 500 genes of A. thaliana. On the one hand, the GR gene composition varies little between species and the gene structures are relatively conserved. On the other hand, the Grx gene family can be divided into three subgroups and the gene content is larger in P. trichocarpa (36 genes) compared with A. thaliana and O. sativa (31 and 27 genes, respectively). This could be partly explained by the occurrence of more duplication events, and this is especially true for one of the three identified Grx subgroups (subgroup III). The expression of most of these genes was confirmed by analysing expressed sequence tags present in various databases. In addition, the expression of Grx of subgroups I and II was examined by RT-PCR in various poplar organs. A complete classification based essentially on gene structure and sequence identity is proposed.
16720613	Plants have developed several strategies for coping with phosphorus (P) deficiency. However, the details of the regulation of gene expression of adaptations to low P are still unclear. Using a cDNA microarray, transcriptomic analyses were carried out of the rice genes regulated by P deficiency and P re-supply to P-deficient plants. The OsPI1 gene, which was isolated as the most significant up-regulated gene under -P conditions, was also the most significant down-regulated gene following P re-supply. Many starch metabolism-related genes, as well as several genes for P(i)-liberating enzymes, were up-regulated by -P treatment, suggesting a homeostatic contribution to the P(i) concentration in leaf tissues. mRNAs for glucanases were also induced by P re-supply: these are suspected to play a role in loosening the cell wall compounds. Most of the genes up-regulated by -P treatment were down-regulated by P re-supply, suggesting that their responses were specific to -P conditions. Conversely, the number of genes up-regulated by P re-supply was also larger following P re-supply than in the -P condition. It is proposed that the genes up-regulated by P re-supply play an important role in P acquisition by P-deficient plants.
16720649	The regulatory ACT domains serve as amino acid-binding sites in some amino acid metabolic enzymes and transcriptional regulators in bacteria. To elucidate the molecular roles of the glutamine (Gln)-sensing system in nitrogen (N) metabolism in plants, we isolated six genes encoding ACT domain repeat proteins (ACR1, and ACR5-ACR9) from rice (Oryza sativa L.) using genomic information on the primary structure composed of four copies of the domain homologous to those of bacterial Gln sensor GLND. Since expression of ACR7 was the most abundant of the six ACR orthologous genes, we focused on this ACR in the current study. Gene products of ACR7 were most abundant in young developing leaf blades of rice, and ACR7 protein is specifically localized in the nucleus of the parenchyma cells of phloem and xylem in the vascular bundles. A yeast two-hybrid screen identified a small heat stress protein (HSP18.0-CII) as a protein interacting with ACR7. Transient expression analysis of HSP18.0-CII:sGFP in cultured rice cells, followed by co-immunoprecipitation, suggests that the nuclear ACR7 indeed interacted with nucleocytoplasmic HSP18.0-CII in vivo. The potential ability of nuclear protein ACR7 to bind Gln and the possibility of the protein acting as a Gln sensor in rice leaves is discussed.
16721381	We developed a new platform for genome-wide gene expression analysis in any eukaryotic organism, which we called SuperSAGE array. The SuperSAGE array is a microarray onto which 26-bp oligonucleotides corresponding to SuperSAGE tag sequences are directly synthesized. A SuperSAGE array combines the advantages of the highly quantitative SuperSAGE expression analysis with the high-throughput microarray technology. We demonstrated highly reproducible gene expression profiling by the SuperSAGE array for 1,000 genes (tags) in rice. We also applied this technology to the detailed study of expressed genes identified by SuperSAGE in Nicotiana benthamiana, an organism for which sufficient genome sequence information is not available. We propose that the SuperSAGE array system represents a new paradigm for microarray construction, as no genomic or cDNA sequence data are required for its preparation.
16721882	Periodic applications of heavy dosages of herbicides in modern rice-agriculture are a necessary evil for obtaining high crop productivity. Such herbicides are not only detrimental to weeds but biofertilizer strains of diazotrophic cyanobacteria also. It is therefore, essential to screen and select such biofertilizer strains of diazotrophic cyanobacteria exhibiting natural tolerance to common rice-field herbicides that can be further improved by mutational techniques to make biofertilizer technology a viable one. Therefore, efforts have been made to screen five dominant diazotrophic cyanobacterial forms e.g. filamentous heterocystous Nostoc punctiforme , Nostoc calcicola , Anabaena variabilis and unicellular Gloeocapsa sp. and Aphanocapsa sp. along with standard laboratory strain Nostoc muscorum ISU against increasing concentrations (0-100 mg l(-1) of four commercial grade common rice-field herbicides i.e. Arozin, Butachlor, Alachlor and 2,4-D under diazotrophic growth conditions. The lethal and IGC(50) concentrations for all four herbicides tested were found highest for A. variabilis as compared to other test cyanobacteria. The lowest reduction in chlorophyll a content, photosynthetic oxygen evolution, and N(2)-fixation was found in A. variabilis as compared to other rice field isolates and standard laboratory strain N. muscorum ISU. On the basis of prolong survival potential and lowest reductions in vital metabolic activities tested at IGC(50) concentration of four herbicides, it is concluded that A. variabilis is the most potent and promising cyanobacterial isolate as compared with other forms. This could be further improved by mutational techniques for exploitation as most potential and viable biofertilizer strain.
16722339	Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase is a rate-limiting enzyme of pentose phosphate pathway, existing in cytosolic and plastidic compartments of higher plants. A novel gene encoding plastidic glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.) and designated OsG6PDH2 in this article. Through semiquantitative RT-PCR approach it was found that OsG6PDH2 mRNA was weakly expressed in rice leaves, stems, immature spikes or flowered spikes, and a little higher in roots. However, the expression of OsG6PDH2 in rice seedlings was significantly induced by dark treatment. The complete opening reading frame (ORF) of OsG6PDH2 was inserted into pET30a (+), and expressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21 (DE3). The enzyme activity assay of transformed bacterial cells indicated that OsG6PDH2 encoding product had a typical function of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase.
16722340	A genetic linkage map comprising 148 SSR markers loci was constructed using an F2 population consisting of 90 lines derived from a sub-specific cross between a japonica variety Nipponbare and an indica variety Guangluai-4. The F2 population showed high significantly distorted segregations. Among these SSR markers, 49 markers(33.11%) showed the genetics distortion(P<0.05). Of them, 36 markers deviated toward male parent indica GuangLuAi-4 and 13 markers toward heterozygote, but none toward the female parent Nipponbare. It was found that the segregation distortion might be caused by gametophyte and zygote. Since most gametophyte loci and sterility loci were mapped in segregation distortion regions, it indicated that the segregation distortion may be caused by these gametophyte loci and sterility loci. Finally, this research also analyzed the skewed segregation of some markers, which had not been mapped on chromosome.
16722341	QTL underlying related traits at the late developmental stage under two different nitrogen levels were investigated in rice using a population of chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSL) derived from a cross between Teqing and Lemont. A total of 31 QTLs referring 5 traits, that is, plant height (PH), panicle number per plant (PN), chlorophyll content (CC), shoot dry weight (SDW) and grain yield per plant (YD), were detected. Under normal N level, 3 QTLs were detected for each trait, while under low N level, 5, 4, 5 and 2 QTLs were detected for PH, PN, CC and SDW respectively. Most of the QTLs were located on chromosome 2, 3, 7, 11 and 12. QTLs controlling different traits or the same trait under different N levels were mapped on the same or adjacent intervals, forming several clusters in rice chromosomes. More than two traits were controlled by QTLs on one of four intervals (RM30-RM439, RM18-RM478, RM309-RM270, and RM235-RM17), suggesting that there were some pleiotropic effects. It was supposed that some QTLs only detected at low N level might be associated with the ability to tolerate the low N stress in rice.
16724243	Samples of groundwater, river water, river sediment, paddy soil, rice seeds, hen eggs, fish, umbilical cord blood, and newborn meconium were collected from October 2002 to October 2003 near a large site in China used for the disassembly of obsolete transformers and other electronic or electrical waste. Six indicator PCB congeners, three non-ortho dioxin-like PCB congeners, and six organochlorine pesticides were determined in the samples by GC with electron capture detector. The results demonstrated that the local environment and edible foods had been seriously polluted by toxic PCBs and organochlorine pesticides. The actual daily intakes (ADIs) of these pollutants were estimated for local residents living in the area. The intake data showed that the contents of PCBs in these local residents were substantial, as the ADI estimates greatly exceed the reference doses set by the World Health Organization and the United States Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. The presence of the indicator PCB congeners in the cord blood and the meconium samples, as well as significant correlations (r (2) > 0.80, p < 0.05) between these levels, suggests a potential biotransfer of these indicators from mothers to their newborns. This preliminary study showed that obsolete transformers and other electronic or electrical waste can be an important source for the emission of persistent organic pollutants into the local environment, such as through leakage, evaporation, runoff, and leaching. Contamination from this source appears to have reached the level considered to be a serious threat to environmental and human health around the disassembly site.
16724255	In higher plants, the process of embryogenesis establishes the plant body plan (body axes). On the basis of positional information specified by the body axes, the shoot apical meristem (SAM) and root apical meristem (RAM) differentiate at fixed positions early in embryogenesis. After germination, SAM and RAM are responsible for the development of the above-ground and below-ground parts, respectively, of the plant. Because of the importance of SAM function in plant development, the mechanisms of SAM formation during embryogenesis and of SAM maintenance and function in post-embryonic development are priority questions in plant developmental biology. Recent advances in molecular and genetic analysis of morphogenetic mutations in Arabidopsis have revealed several components required for SAM formation, maintenance and function. Although these processes are fundamental to the life cycle of every plant, conservation of the components does not explain the diversity of plant morphologies. Rice is used as a model plant of the grass family and of monocots because of the progress in research infrastructure, especially the collection of unique mutations and genome information. In comparison with the dicot Arabidopsis, rice has many unique organs or processes of development. This review summarizes what is known of the processes of SAM formation, maintenance and function in rice.
16725128	Neuronal cell damage following hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury is partly caused by production of free radicals and reactive oxygen species (ROS). Ascorbic acid (AA) is a potent antioxidant, which scavenges various types of ROS. Some studies have shown that it is neuroprotective, however, the issue is still controversial. In this study, we examined the effect of intraventricular AA administration on immature HI brain using the Rice-Vannucci model. After unilateral carotid artery ligation under isoflurane anesthesia, 7-day-old rat pups received varying concentrations of AA (0.04, 0.2, 1 and 5 mg/kg) by intraventricular injection and were exposed to 8% oxygen for 90 min. Vehicle controls received an equal volume of phosphate saline buffer. We assessed the neuroprotective effect of AA at 7 days post-HI. The percent brain damage measured by comparing the wet weight of the ligated side of hemisphere with that of contralateral one was reduced in both 1 and 5 mg/kg groups but not in either 0.04 or 0.2 mg/kg groups compared to vehicle controls (5 mg/kg 16.0 +/- 4.3%, 1 mg/kg 10.9 +/- 5.0%, vs. controls 36.7 +/- 3.6%, P < 0.05). Macroscopic evaluation of brain injury revealed the neuroprotective effect of AA in both 1 and 5 mg/kg groups (5 mg/kg 1.1 +/- 0.4, 1 mg/kg 0.4 +/- 0.3, vs. controls 2.9 +/- 0.3, P < 0.05). Western blots of fodrin on the ligated side also showed that AA significantly suppressed 150/145-kDa bands of fodrin breakdown products, which suggested that AA suppressed activation of calpain. Neuropathological quantitative analysis of cell death revealed that 1 mg/kg of AA injection significantly reduced the number of necrotic cells in cortex, caudate putamen, thalamus and hippocampus CA1, whereas that of apoptotic cells was only reduced in cortex. These findings show that intraventricular AA injection is neuroprotective after HI in immature rats.
16727341	Forty-five crossbred beef heifers (weight = 268.3 +/- 5.7 kg) were used to determine the effects of dietary gossypol on ovarian morphology, erythrocyte fragility and fertility. Heifers were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 isonitrogenous dietary treatments. The diet consisted of rice mill feed and milo supplemented with soybean meal (n = 13; control), cottonseed meal (n = 16; low supplementation) which supplied 6.1 g free gossypol animal(-1) day(-1), or whole cottonseed (n = 16; high supplementation) which supplied 13.7 g free gossypol animal(-1) day(-1). The heifers were group-fed each diet for 64 days and were maintained on similar but separate fescue pastures overseeded with wheat. After 64 days, 4 heifers from each diet were confined and fed their respective diets. On Day 10 following estrus, each animal was unilaterally ovariectomized, and the ovary containing the corpus luteum was removed. The remaining ovary was removed 6 to 12 hours after detection of estrus in the next cycle. Erythrocyte fragility increased (P < 0.02) in heifers receiving gossypol compared with that of the controls. Cyclicity in the heifers was 81.3, 68.8 and 38.4% for high, low and control diets, respectively, at the end of the 64-day treatment period. First service conception rate, as determined by palpation per rectum, was similar among treatments (58.3, 33.3, 33.3% for high, low and control groups, respectively). Weight gain increased (P < 0.03) in control heifers compared with that of heifers receiving gossypol. Gross ovarian morphology and histology were similar for all heifers. Although gossypol produced mild toxicosis in heifers, no adverse reproductive effects could be detected from gossypol intake.
16729486	We analyzed Internet information about herbal products and dietary supplements regulated by Ministry of Public Health. We screened 522 Italian web sites and we found information about toxic risks on Germander (Teucrium chamaedrys), Red yeast fermented rice (Monascus ruber), Borage (Borago officinalis) and Coltsfoot (Tussilago farfara) respectively in: 63%, 47%, 3% and 22% of the web sites. It is also possible the on-line purchase. Results show that in Internet there are not correct instructions about risks of herbal products.
16730043	The enniatins A, A1, B, B1, B2 and B3 were purified from hexane-extracts of Fusarium avenaceum rice cultures, using semi-preparative HPLC, after precipitation of lipids. Their toxicity, as well as the toxicity of the related fungal metabolite beauvericin (Bea) and the trichothecenes deoxynivalenol (DON) and T-2 toxin, was tested in two cell lines of human origin (hepatocellular carcinoma-line Hep G2 and fibroblast-like foetal lung cell line MRC-5) by using the BrdU and Alamar Blue assays. All the compounds evoked toxicity in the in vitro assays at the concentrations tested. The MRC-5 cell line in combination with the BrdU assay resulted in the lowest inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)) for exposure with enniatins in the range 0.8 microM (enniatin A) to 3.6 microM (enniatin B). The cytotoxicity of DON in the BrdU assay was comparable to the cytotoxicity of enniatins A, B and Bea in a multiple regression model, while DON was significantly more cytotoxic than the enniatins in the Alamar assay. This study indicates that enniatins, fungal metabolites that are commonly found in grain in Northern Europe, may have an underestimated toxic potential.
16730050	Soil and soil-water As profiles were obtained from 4 rice paddies in Bangladesh during the wet growing season (May-November), when surface water with little arsenic is used for irrigation, or during the dry season (January-May), when groundwater elevated in arsenic is used instead. In the upper 5 cm of paddy soil, accumulation of 13+/-12 mg/kg acid-leachable As (n=11) was observed in soil from 3 sites irrigated with groundwater containing 80-180 microg/L As, whereas only 3+/-2 mg/kg acid-leachable As (n=8) was measured at a control site. Dissolved As concentrations averaged 370+/-340 microg/L (n=7) in the upper 5 cm of the soil at the 3 sites irrigated with groundwater containing 80-180 microg/L As, contrasting with soil water As concentrations of only 18+/-7 microg/L (n=4) over the same depth interval at the control site. Despite the accumulation of As in soil and in soil water attributable to irrigation with groundwater containing elevated As levels, there is no evidence of a proportional transfer to rice grains collected from the same sites. Digestion and analysis of individual grains of boro winter rice from the 2 sites irrigated with groundwater containing 150 and 180 microg/L As yielded concentrations of 0.28+/-0.13 mg/kg (n=12) and 0.44+/-0.25 mg/kg (n=12), respectively. The As content of winter rice from the control site was not significantly different though less variable (0.30+/-0.07; n=12). The observations suggest that exposure of the Bangladesh population to As contained in rice is less of an immediate concern than the continued use of groundwater containing elevated As levels for drinking or cooking, or other potential consequences of As accumulation in soil and soil-water.
16730464	Chilling during male gametophyte development in rice inhibits development of microspores, causing male sterility. Changes in cellular ultrastructure that have been exposed to mild chilling include microspores with poor pollen wall formation, abnormal vacuolation and hypertrophy of the tapetum and unusual starch accumulation in the plastids of the endothecium in post-meiotic anthers. Anthers observed during tetrad release also have callose (1,3-beta-glucan) wall abnormalities as shown by immunocytochemical labelling. Expression of rice anther specific monosaccharide transporter (OsMST8) is greatly affected by chilling treatment. Perturbed carbohydrate metabolism, which is particularly triggered by repressed genes OsINV4 and OsMST8 during chilling, causes unusual starch storage in the endothecium and this also contributes to other symptoms such as vacuolation and poor microspore wall formation. Premature callose breakdown apparently restricts the basic framework of the future pollen wall. Vacuolation and hypertrophy are also symptoms of osmotic imbalance triggered by the reabsorption of callose breakdown products due to absence of OsMST8 activity.
16730655	The RecQ family of DNA helicases is conserved throughout the biological kingdoms. In this report, we have characterized four RecQ homologues clearly expressed in rice. OsRecQ1, OsRecQ886, and OsRecQsim expressions were strongly detected in meristematic tissues. Transcription of the OsRecQ homologues was differentially induced by several types of DNA-damaging agents. The expression of four OsRecQ homologues was induced by MMS and bleomycin. OsRecQ1 and OsRecQ886 were induced by H(2)O(2), and MitomycinC strongly induced the expression of OsRecQ1. Transient expression of OsRecQ/GFP fusion proteins demonstrated that OsRecQ2 and OsRecQ886 are found in nuclei, whereas OsRecQ1 and OsRecQsim are found in plastids. Neither OsRecQ1 nor OsRecQsim are induced by light. These results indicate that four of the RecQ homologues have different and specific functions in DNA repair pathways, and that OsRecQ1 and OsRecQsim may not involve in plastid differentiation but different aspects of a plastid-specific DNA repair system.
16730765	Sri Lanka is one of the Asian countries most affected by mosquito-borne diseases, especially malaria. This 18-month study assessed the effectiveness of a new community-based ecosystem management programme to control mosquito vectors in the country's rice ecosystem. Farmers in a malaria-prone village were educated and motivated to engage in source reduction as well as measures to restore and maximise rice ecosystem functions. Over the course of the programme, the impact of farmers' ecosystem management on local mosquito ecology was also examined. Although little impact was detected on Culex and Aedes densities, adult Anopheles density was significantly suppressed in the southwest monsoon season. Rice farmers who manage their ecosystems can reduce the burden of Anopheles mosquitoes, interrupt malaria transmission and prevent the destruction of ecosystems.
16730831	According to the DNA sequences of six Fe-hydrogenase genes (FHG) of Clostridium species retrieved from the GenBank, a set of primers specific for Fe-hydrogenase genes were identified from their common conserved regions. The length of DNA fragments amplified using these two primers averaged 313 bps. This primer set was then used to investigate the FHG diversity in an acidophilic rice-degrading sludge by methods based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Eight new Fe-hydrogenase gene fragments were identified from the sludge, as a result. Similarity based on amino acids among the 14 hydrogenase genes (8 newly found plus 6 known ones) was 39-97%, which is comparable to the similarity of 41-82% among the 6 known hydrogenase genes alone. The low similarity indicates a great diversity on Fe-hydrogenase among the Clostridium species. The primer set was then used to monitor the change of hydrogen-producing microbial population in a batch reaction using the technique of quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) with SYBR Green I as the fluorescent reagent. Results showed that the hydrogen producers had an average generation time of 4.2h, and a production rate of 7.0 x 10(16) H2-molecule cell(-1)h(-1).
16731015	Efficient regulation of nitrogen metabolism likely plays a role in the ability of fungi to exploit ecological niches. To learn about regulation of nitrogen metabolism in the rice blast pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, we undertook a genome-wide analysis of gene expression under nitrogen-limiting conditions. Five hundred and twenty genes showed increased transcript levels at 12 and 48 h after shifting the fungus to media lacking nitrate as a nitrogen source. Thirty-nine of these genes have putative functions in amino acid metabolism and uptake, and include the global nitrogen regulator in M. grisea, NUT1. Evaluation of seven nitrogen starvation-induced genes revealed that all were expressed during rice infection. Targeted gene replacement on one such gene, the vacuolar serine protease, SPM1, resulted in decreased sporulation and appressorial development as well as a greatly attenuated ability to cause disease. Data are discussed in the context of nitrogen metabolism under starvation conditions, as well as conditions potentially encountered during invasive growth in planta.
16731038	Accurate estimates of inorganic arsenic intake are critical for evaluating potential health risks. Intake estimates have not been critically examined in regions of the United States where people are at risk from arsenic concentrations in drinking water exceeding the maximum contaminant limit of 10 microg/l. In southeastern Michigan, approximately 8% of the population is exposed to arsenic in drinking water >10 microg/l. Four hundred and forty participants of a control group in this region, frequency matched to cases in a population-based bladder cancer case-control study, answered a questionnaire about water and food consumption and smoking history. Water samples were collected from participants' current residences and analyzed for arsenic. Water arsenic data were combined with questionnaire data and published data of inorganic arsenic concentrations in select foods and cigarettes to examine the influence of arsenic in water at home, at work, and at other places, as well as inorganic arsenic intake from food and cigarettes. Monte Carlo simulations and analyses of individual-level intake estimates were conducted to quantify the variability attributed to different parameters in this primarily elderly white male population of southeastern Michigan. The 95th percentile of total inorganic arsenic intake ranges from 11 to 24 microg/day, depending on the intake metric selected. Results indicate that arsenic in home drinking water is the largest source of inorganic arsenic, accounting for 55.1% of the variance in the intake estimates. Food intake explains 37.3% of the variance, with rice being the largest contributor. In the upper decile of intake, consumption of plain water and beverages made with water at home, and ingestion of arsenic in water at work, also contribute to intake estimates. Water used for cooking and arsenic from smoking, however, only minimally alter the intake estimates. This is due to a relatively small volume of water absorbed into cooked foods and low concentrations of arsenic in cigarettes. Results from this study will assist investigators in better characterizing exposure to inorganic arsenic.
16733757	Rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare) harbors a ribosomal RNA gene (rDNA) cluster in the nucleolar-organizing region at the telomeric end of the short arm of chromosome 9. We isolated and sequenced two genomic clones carrying rice rDNA fragments from this region. The rice rDNA repeat units could be classified into three types based on length, which ranged from 7,928 to 8,934 bp. This variation was due to polymorphism in the number of 254-bp subrepeats in the intergenic spacer (IGS). Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis suggested that the rDNA units in rice vary widely in length and that the copy number of the subrepeats in the IGS ranges from 1 to 12 in the rice genome. PCR and Southern blot analyses showed that most rDNA units have three intact and one truncated copies of the subrepeats in the IGS, and distal (telomere-side) rDNA units have more subrepeats than do proximal (centromere-side) ones. Both genomic clones we studied contained rDNA-flanking DNA sequences of either telomeric repeats (5'-TTTAGGG-3') or a chromosome-specific region, suggesting that they were derived from the distal or proximal end, respectively, of the rDNA cluster. A similarity search indicated that retrotransposons appeared more frequently in a 500-kb portion of the proximal rDNA-flanking region than in other subtelomeric regions or sequenced regions of the genome. This study reveals the repetitive nature of the telomeric end of the short arm of chromosome 9, which consists of telomeric repeats, an rDNA array, and a retrotransposon-rich chromosomal region.
16735237	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF5A) is involved in cell proliferation, senescence, development and environmental response. In this paper, DNA and cDNA of Chinese Spring was amplified by PCR with special primers, two special fragments of 1 679 bp and 1 910 bp were obtained with DNA as template and one special fragment of 636 bp was yielded with cDNA as template. Which were named eIF5a1 (GenBank number: DQ167202), eIF5a2 (Genbank number: DQ167201) and eIF5a3, respectively. The complete sequence (768 bp) of eIF5a3 (Genbank number: DQ167203) was obtained using GeneRacer kit. Nucleotide sequence analysis shows that eIF5a1 and eIF5a2 share identical transcriptions of 636bp which have only 6 nucleotides difference. Putative amino acid sequences analysis revealed that there was only one or two amino acid difference in eIF5a1, eIF5a2 and eIF5a3. Phylogenic analysis indicated that the eIF5A of wheat were relation to corn, rice, tomato and potato closely. In additional, eIF5a2 is located on chromosome 2B using Langdon D-genomic disomic substitution lines and the expression of eIF5A was also investigated by Semi-quantitative PCR.
16735401	Rice (Oryza sativa) is an aquatic plant with a characteristic of forming iron plaque on its root surfaces. It is considered to be the most Al-tolerant species among the cereal crops. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of root surface iron plaque on Al translocation, accumulation and the change of physiological responses under Al stress in rice in the presence of iron plaque. The japonica variety rice, Koshihikari, was used in this study and was grown hydroponically in a growth chamber. Iron plaque was induced by exposing the rice roots to 30 mg L(-1) ferrous iron either as Fe(II)-EDTA in nutrient solution (6 d, Method I) or as FeSO(4) in water solution (12 h, Method II). Organic acid in root exudates was retained in the anion-exchange resin and eluted with 2 m HCl, then analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) after proper pre-treatment. Fe and Al in iron plaque were extracted with DCB (dithionite-citrate-bicarbonate) solution. Both methods (I and II) could induce the formation of iron plaque on rice root surfaces. The amounts of DCB-extractable Fe and Al on root surfaces were much higher in the presence of iron plaque than in the absence of iron plaque. Al contents in root tips were significantly decreased with iron plaque; translocation of Al from roots to shoots was significantly reduced with iron plaque. Al-induced secretion of citrate was observed and iron plaque could greatly depress this citrate secretion. These results suggested that iron plaque on rice root surfaces can be a sink to sequester Al onto the root surfaces and Fe ions can pre-saturate Al-binding sites in root tips, which protects the rice root tips from suffering Al stress to a certain extent.
16736102	Pathogenesis-related group 5 (PR5) plant proteins include thaumatin, osmotin, and related proteins, many of which have antimicrobial activity. The recent discovery of PR5-like (PR5-L) sequences in nematodes and insects raises questions about their evolutionary relationships. Using complete plant genome data and discovery of multiple insect PR5-L sequences, phylogenetic comparisons among plants and animals were performed. All PR5/PR5-L protein sequences were mined from genome data of a member of each of two main angiosperm groups-the eudicots (Arabidoposis thaliana) and the monocots (Oryza sativa)-and from the Caenorhabditis nematode (C. elegans and C. briggsase). Insect PR5-L sequences were mined from EST databases and GenBank submissions from four insect orders: Coleoptera (Diaprepes abbreviatus and Biphyllus lunatus), Orthoptera (Schistocerca gregaria), Hymenoptera (Lysiphlebus testaceipes), and Hemiptera (Toxoptera citricida). Parsimony and Bayesian phylogenetic analyses showed that the PR5 family is paraphyletic in plants, likely arising from 10 genes in a common ancestor to monocots and eudicots. After evolutionary divergence of monocots and eudicots, PR5 genes increased asymmetrically among the 10 clades. Insects and nematodes contain multiple sequences (seven PR5-Ls in nematodes and at least three in some insects) all related to the same plant clade, with nematode and insect sequences separating as two clades. Protein structural homology modeling showed strong similarity among animal and plant PR5/PR5-Ls, with divergence only in surface-exposed loops. Sequence and structural conservation among PR5/PR5-Ls suggests an important and conserved role throughout the evolutionary divergence of the diverse organisms from which they reside.
16736259	To find components which participate in gravitropic signal transmission, we screened different cell biological inhibitors for their effect on gravitropic bending of rice coleoptiles. Acrylamide, which is known to affect intermediate filaments in mammalian cells, strongly inhibited gravitropic bending at concentrations that did not inhibit growth of coleoptile segments. This inhibition was reversible. Investigating the acrylamide effect further, we found that it interferes with an event that occurs around 15 min after the onset of stimulation. We also observed that acrylamide inhibits polar indolyl-3-acetic acid transport. Furthermore, acrylamide efficiently eliminated microtubules, whereas actin filaments remained intact. To our knowledge this is the first report of effects of monoacrylamide in plant cells.
16738101	The taxonomic position of ten acidophilic actinomycetes isolated from an acidic rice-field soil was established using a polyphasic approach. 16S rRNA gene sequences determined for the isolates were aligned with corresponding sequences of representatives of the genera Kitasatospora, Streptacidiphilus and Streptomyces and phylogenetic trees were inferred using four tree-making algorithms. The isolates had identical sequences and formed a distinct branch at the periphery of the Streptacidiphilus 16S rRNA gene tree. The chemotaxonomic and morphological properties of representative isolates were consistent with their assignment to the genus Streptacidiphilus. The isolates shared nearly identical phenotypic profiles that readily distinguished them from representatives of the established species of Streptacidiphilus. It is evident from the genotypic and phenotypic data that the isolates form a homogeneous group that corresponds to a novel species in the genus Streptacidiphilus. The name proposed for this new taxon is Streptacidiphilus oryzae sp. nov.; the type strain is strain TH49(T) (=CGMCC 4.2012(T) = JCM 13271(T)).
16738400	Soil organic phosphorus (SOP) can greatly contribute to plant-available P and P nutrition. The study was conducted to determine the effects of organic amendments on organic P fractions and microbiological activities in paddy soils. Samples were collected at the Changshu Agro-ecological Experiment Station in Tahu Lake Basin, China, from an experiment that has been performed from 1999 to 2004, on a paddy soil (Gleysols). Treatments consisted of swine manure (SM), wheat straw (WS), swine manure plus wheat straw (SM + WS), and a control (chemical fertilization alone). Organic amendments markedly increased soil total organic phosphorus (TOP) and total organic carbon (TOC), especially in continuously flooded conditions. Based on the fractionation of SOP, organic amendments significantly increased soil labile organic phosphorus (LOP), moderately labile organic phosphorus (MLOP), and moderately stable organic phosphorus (MSOP) compared with the control. For SM and SM + WS treatments, LOP in continuously flooded soils decreased by 30.1 and 36.4%, respectively, compared to intermittently flooded soils. In organically amended soils, continuous flooding showed significantly lower microbial biomass phosphorus (MBP) and alkaline phosphatase activities (APA) than intermittent flooding. In intermittently flooded conditions, incorporating organic amendments into soil resulted in greater P uptake and biomass yield of rice than the control. In the intermittently flooded soils, APA (P < 0.05) and MBP (P < 0.01) were significantly and positively related to TOP, LOP, MLOP, and MSOP, whereas in continuously flooded soils, there was a significant (P < 0.05) negative relationship between MBP, TOP, and MSOP. Based on soil organic P fractions and soil enzymatic and microbiological activities, continuous flooding applied to paddy soils should be avoided, especially when swine manure is incorporated into paddy soil.
16739958	Human lysozyme has numerous potential therapeutic applications to a broad spectrum of human diseases. This glycosidic enzyme is present in tears, saliva, nasal secretions, and milk--sources not amendable for commercial development. Recently, a high expression level of recombinant human lysozyme (0.5% dry weight) was achieved in transgenic rice seed. This paper evaluates the effects of pH and ionic strength on rice protein and lysozyme extractability, as well as their interactions with the strong cation-exchange resin, SP-Sepharose FF. The extraction conditions that maximized lysozyme yield and the ratio of extracted human lysozyme to native rice protein were not optimal for lysozyme adsorption. The conditions that gave the highest extracted lysozyme to native protein ratio were pH 4.5 and 100 mM NaCl in 50 mM sodium acetate buffer. At pH 4.5, salt concentrations above 100 mM NaCl reduced the lysozyme-to-protein ratio. The best conditions for lysozyme adsorption were pH 4.5 and 50 mM sodium acetate buffer. Lysozyme extraction and subsequent adsorption at pH 4.5 and 50 mM NaCl was an acceptable compromise between lysozyme extractability, adsorption, and purity. The primary recovery of human lysozyme from pH 6 extracts, irrespective of ionic strength, was inferior to that using pH 4.5 with unacceptably low saturation capacities and lysozyme purity. High purity was achieved with a single chromatography step by adjusting the pH 4.5 extract to pH 6 before adsorption. The disadvantage of this approach was the drastically lower saturation capacity compared to adsorption at pH 4.5.
16740843	Chronic lead poisoning and iron deficiency are concentrated in urban children from lower socioeconomic strata, and both impair neurocognitive development. Our study objective was to determine if iron fortification reduces blood lead levels in urban, lead-exposed, iron-deficient children in Bangalore, India. A randomized, double-blind, controlled school-based feeding trial was done in 5- to 13-year-old iron-deficient children (n = 186). At baseline, a high prevalence of lead poisoning was found in the younger children. Subsequently, all 5- to 9-year-old children participating in the trial (n = 134) were followed to determine if iron fortification would affect their blood lead levels. Children were dewormed and fed 6 days/week for 16 weeks either an iron-fortified rice meal (approximately 15 mg of iron per day as ferric pyrophosphate) or an identical control meal without added iron. Feeding was directly supervised and compliance monitored. Hemoglobin, serum ferritin, C-reactive protein, transferrin receptor, zinc protoporphyrin, and blood lead concentrations were measured. The prevalence of iron deficiency was significantly reduced in the iron group (from 70% to 28%) compared with the control group (76% to 55%). There was a significant decrease in median blood lead concentration in the iron group compared with the control group. The prevalence of blood lead levels > or =10 microg/dL was significantly reduced in the iron group (from 65% to 29%) compared with the control group (68% to 55%). Our findings suggest providing iron in a fortified food to lead-exposed children may reduce chronic lead intoxication. Iron fortification may be an effective and sustainable strategy to accompany environmental lead abatement.
16740892
16741826	Rice-wheat cropping systems of the Indo-Gangetic plains (IGP) occupying 12 million ha of productive land are important for the food security of South Asia. There are, however, concerns that yield and factor productivity trends in these systems are declining/stagnating in recent years. Decrease in soil organic carbon is often suggested as a reason for such trends. A field experiment was conducted to study the soil organic carbon (SOC) and soil microbial biomass carbon (MBC) dynamics in the rice-wheat systems. Use of organic amendments and puddling of soil before rice transplanting increased SOC and MBC contents. Microbial biomass carbon showed a seasonal pattern. It was low initially, reached its peak during the flowering stages in both rice and wheat and declined thereafter. Microbial biomass carbon was linearly related to SOC in both rice and wheat indicating that SOC could be used as a proxy for MBC.
16742198
16742247
16742342
16743969
16744282
16744537
16744702
16745695
16745749
16745771
16746571
16750930	When skeletal muscle is stretched or injured, satellite cells are activated to enter the cell cycle, and this process could be mediated by hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and nitric oxide (NO) as revealed by primary culture technique. In this system, which was originally developed by Allen et al. [Allen, R. E., Temm-Grove, C. J., Sheehan, S. M., & Rice, G. (1997). Skeletal muscle satellite cell cultures. Methods Cell Biol., 52, 155-176], however, some populations of satellite cells would receive activation signals during the cell isolation procedure; the high baseline level of activation diminishes the magnitude of the observed effect of HGF and NO. In this study, we modified the cell isolation procedure by lowering pH of muscle and isolation media from 7.2 (original) to 6.5. This modification was designed to block the activation signal generation, based on our previous observations that the satellite cell activation in response to mechanical stimulation only occurred between pH 7.1 and 7.5. Satellite cells prepared at low-pH showed a low baseline level of activation in bromodeoxyuridine incorporation and MyoD expression assays on control cultures, and demonstrated a large activation response to mechanical stretch, exogenous HGF and NO donor. Cell yield and myogenic purity were not affected by the modifications. The low-pH procedure could provide an improved satellite cell model for in vitro activation experiments.
16751146	Three hundred and forty-nine breakfast and infant cereal samples were collected at retail level across Canada from 2002 to 2005. They included rice-, soy-, barley-based and mixed-grain infant cereals, corn-, wheat-, rice-based and mixed-grain breakfast cereals, and were analysed for aflatoxins B1, B2, G1 and G2 using a modified AOAC International official method. An immunoaffinity column was used for the cleanup and purification of extracts. Determination of aflatoxins was by LC using post-column derivatization with pyridinium hydrobromide perbromide and fluorescence detection. Results indicated that 50% of both breakfast and infant cereals had detectable levels (limit of detection = 0.002 ng g-1) of aflatoxin B1, which is the most toxic of the four toxins. The levels found varied from 0.002 to 1.00 ng g-1 for aflatoxin B1, from 0.002 to 0.14 ng g-1 for aflatoxin B2, from 0.008 to 0.27 ng g-1 for aflatoxin G1, and from 0.008 to 0.048 ng g-1 for aflatoxin G2. Only 4% of the breakfast cereals and 1% of the infant cereals had aflatoxin B1 levels exceeding 0.1 ng g-1, which is the European Union maximum limit for aflatoxin B1 in baby foods and processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children.
16751590	A fluorescent photoreactive ATP derivative, 2'(3')-O-(4-benzoylbenzoyl)-1,N(6)-etheno-ATP (Bz(2)-epsilonATP), was synthesized and reacted with the rice kinesin K16 motor domain (K16MD). In the presence of ADP or ATP, UV irradiation of the K16MD solution containing Bz(2)-epsilonATP resulted in a new 100 kDa band, which was an intermolecular cross-linked product of motor domains. In contrast, no cross-linking was observed in the absence of nucleotides. For the motor domain of mouse brain kinesin and skeletal muscle myosin subfragment-1, no such intermolecular photo cross-linking by Bz(2)-epsilonATP was observed. Our results indicate that Bz(2)-epsilonATP acts unusually as a photoreactive crosslinker to detect conformational changes in K16MD induced by nucleotide binding resulting in the formation of dimers.
16751593	Loop L5 of kinesin is located near the ATPase site, in common with kinesins of various animal species. The rice plant-specific kinesin K16 also has a corresponding loop that is slightly shorter than that of mouse brain kinesin. The present study was designed to monitor conformational changes in loop L5 during ATP hydrolysis. For this purpose, we introduced one reactive cysteine into the L5 of rice kinesin and modified it with fluorescent probes. The cysteine in L5 was labeled with a fluorescent probe 2-(4'(iodoacetamide) anilino-naphthalene-6-sulfonic acid sodium salt) [IAANS]. IAANS was incorporated into L5 at an almost equimolar ratio in the absence of nucleotides. In contrast, the incorporated amount was reduced to 0.62 and 0.32 mol IAANS/mol motor domain in the presence of ATP and ADP, respectively. Upon nucleotide addition, the fluorescent intensity of IAANS incorporated into L5 was significantly reduced to 63% and 51% for ATP and ADP, respectively. These results suggest that L5 of rice kinesin significantly changes its conformation during ATP hydrolysis.
16751955	This study aimed to longitudinally compare nutrient and food intakes by 276 lactating women. Dietary intake was collected using a food frequency questionnaire. Data analysis used the Student-t and ANOVA tests, comparing quantitative and qualitative dietary variation from pregnancy to postpartum. Mean daily energy intake was 2,889 kcal for pregnant and 2,081 kcal for lactating women. Macronutrient dietary distributions were within internationally recommended standards. Compared to pregnancy, there was a decrease in most nutrients and foods ingested during postpartum. Dietary changes increased the density of proteins, fat, iron, rice, beans, chicken, and beef (p < 0.02) and decreased the density of carbohydrate, cereals, fruits, and milk and dairy products (p < 0.001). The results indicate a need for dietary guidelines for women, particularly during the postpartum period.
16752131	A spontaneous maize mutant, brittle stalk-2 (bk2-ref), exhibits dramatically reduced tissue mechanical strength. Reduction in mechanical strength in the stalk tissue was highly correlated with a reduction in the amount of cellulose and an uneven deposition of secondary cell wall material in the subepidermal and perivascular sclerenchyma fibers. Cell wall accounted for two-thirds of the observed reduction in dry matter content per unit length of the mutant stalk in comparison to the wildtype stalk. Although the cell wall composition was significantly altered in the mutant in comparison to the wildtype stalks, no compensation by lignin and cell wall matrix for reduced cellulose amount was observed. We demonstrate that Bk2 encodes a Cobra-like protein that is homologous to the rice Bc1 protein. In the bk2-ref gene, a 1 kb transposon-like element is inserted in the beginning of the second exon, disrupting the open reading frame. The Bk2 gene was expressed in the stalk, husk, root, and leaf tissues, but not in the embryo, endosperm, pollen, silk, or other tissues with comparatively few or no secondary cell wall containing cells. The highest expression was in the isolated vascular bundles. In agreement with its role in secondary wall formation, the expression pattern of the Bk2 gene was very similar to that of the ZmCesA10, ZmCesA11, and ZmCesA12 genes, which are known to be involved in secondary wall formation. We have isolated an independent Mutator-tagged allele of bk2, referred to as bk2-Mu7, the phenotype of which is similar to that of the spontaneous mutant. Our results demonstrate that mutations in the Bk2 gene affect stalk strength in maize by interfering with the deposition of cellulose in the secondary cell wall in fiber cells.
16753273	The amount of mRNA of the Oryza sativa L., cv. Nipponbare (rice) catalase gene, CatB, was decreased in the roots of intact seedlings kept in continuous darkness (DD). In contrast, sense and antisense unspliced CatB transcripts accumulated in the same tissue. Both strands cover the entire CatB-coding region, and form double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). The results of RNA dot-blot hybridization analysis using low molecular weight RNAs suggested that the sense and antisense CatB transcripts were more stable under DD conditions than under a light-dark regimen (LD). After shifting the lighting conditions from DD to LD, both the sense and antisense CatB transcripts were hardly detected, and the amount of CatB mRNA was restored. From these results, the antisense CatB transcripts might play a role in suppressing the normal processing of sense CatB transcript and also CatB protein synthesis by dsRNA formation, under conditions unsuitable for plant growth such as DD. This study indicates that signals transmitted from shoots are associated with the accumulation of sense and antisense CatB transcripts in roots under DD conditions, and that auxin is one of the possible signals.
16753291	In this study, rice husks considered to be agricultural waste are converted into an adsorbent intended for use in the disposal of oil spills. The raw and refined (defiberized) husks of Japanese Akita Komachi rice were pyrolyzed in a vacuum (500 Pa) at 300-800 degrees C. The amount of A-heavy and B-heavy oils adsorbed on the carbonized rice husk were then evaluated. Oil adsorption is dependent on the type of oil. Rice husks refined and then pyrolyzed at 600-700 degrees C (1.0 g) adsorbed >6.0 g of B-heavy oil and <1.5 g of water, which indicates their usefulness as an adsorbent for oil spill cleanup in Japan. The refining process contributes to an improvement in the oil adsorption capacity, while the carbonization time (at 600 degrees C) has only a minor influence. The residual fluid components in the carbonized rice husks, rather than their porosity, are closely related to oil adsorption capacity.
16753814	The full-length cDNA (3612 bp) of OsNHA1 was cloned by RT-PCR approach from rice (Oryza sativa L.), which encodes a putative plasma membrane Na+/H+ antiporter. Its deduced protein, OsNHA1, has 11 transmembrane domains and a significant similarity to a plasma membrane Na+/H+ antiporter AtNHA1 from Arabidopsis thaliana. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the OsNHA1 clusters with the plasma membrane Na+/H+ antiporters from various organisms. The semi-quantitative RT-PCR assay revealed that the expression of OsNHA1 was up-regulated in both shoots and roots of rice seedlings under salt stress, whereas it was not induced in the rice seedlings treated by drought stress.
16753815	A subtracted cDNAs library was constructed using rice (Oryza sativa L.) calli cDNA as driver and differentiating calli cDNA as tester. A novel gene homologous with FCA in Arabidopsis was cloned from rice by screening the SSH (suppression subtractive hybridization) library followed by RACE. Four alternative transcripts of OsFCA were cloned from the leaves of rice, and designated as OsFCA-1, OsFCA-2, OsFCA-3 and OsFCA-4 respectively. OsFCA-1 was homologous to FCA-gamma of Arabidopsis and contained several conserved domains (two RNA Recognition Motifs and one WW-domain). OsFCA-2 was 102 bp shorter than OsFCA-1 which caused the WW-domain deletion. The proteins encoded by OsFCA-3 and OsFCA-4 were 101 amino acids shorter than OsFCA-1 at the N-terminal which is a glycine-rich region. The fluorescence quantitative PCR analysis showed that the mRNA of OsFCA-1 is the most abundant in the four splicing variants of rice FCA, and its expression level is much higher in differentiating calli than in calli. The expression of OsFCA-1 is steady in the leaves of three different stage, but up-regulated in young spikelet of primary branch-differentiating stage and down-regulated in young spikelet of pistil and stamen-differentiating stage.
16753816	A novel blast-inducible RING-H2 type zinc finger protein gene OsRING-1 was cloned from rice by cDNA library screening. OsRING-1 is 1670 bp in length and encodes a 46.6 kDa basic protein with two transmembrane (TM) domains, a basic domain (BD), a conserved domain (CD), a RING finger domain and a serine rich (S-rich) domain. By database search, OsRING-1 was mapped on chromosome 2 and clustered together with other six zinc finger genes. The promoter sequence analysis of OsRING-1 gene revealed that some ABA, GA, ethylene, wound, drought, heat stress and pathogen infection responsive elements were found within the OsRING-1 promoter region. Northern analysis showed that OsRING-1 was induced in different degree by pathogen infections, SA, ABA, JA and ethephon (ET) treatments. Tissue expression analysis showed that OsRING-1 was constitutively strongly expressed in roots, but faintly in stems, leaves and sheaths. Taken together, OsRING-1, as a novel C3H2C3-type zinc finger protein involved in many stress responses in rice might plays a role as a transcription regulator in plant stress response signal transduction pathways.
16753817	In this research, one 1156 bp cDNA containing full open reading frame and encoding a novel 24-kDa protein with four tandem WD repeat motifs was cloned from cotton, therefore was named GhWDR and the GenBank accession number is AY870657. By search of GhWDR cDNA and amino acid sequences in the database, we found that GhWDR and OSJNBa0003G23.2 from Oryza sativa show 90% sequence identity and 84% identity to WD-repeat protein from Arabidopsis thaliana, and also has high sequence identity to other WD repeat proteins, most of which are similar to Pop3 from fission yeast (accession number T39922) and Lst8p from Saccharomyces cerevisiae (accession number NP014392). Therefore, we proposed that GhWDR could act in some cellular processes as pop3 or LST8 does. In addition, the expression of GhWDR in various tissues was studied by RT-PCR, and it is expressed in all of the studied tissues, but the level of expression is low in the leaves when compared to that of other tissues.
16753820	EMBRYONIC FLOWER 2 (EMF2) gene plays a major role in maintain vegetative development and repress flower development. Here, we present the cloning, characterization and tissue-specific expression of a putative EMF2 (OsEMF2) gene in Oryza sativa. The full-length cDNA of OsEMF2 was 1899 bp and contained an 1872 bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding a 624 amino acid protein. Homologous analysis showed that OsEMF2 contain a single conserved C2H2-type zinc finger motif. Sequence alignment shows that there is a homology between the deduced amino acid sequence of OsEMF2 and EMF2 in Zea mays (55%). Moreover, pI of OsEMF2 are predicted. The tissue-specific expression pattern of OsEMF2 reveals that it is abundant in shoot apical meristem and inflorescence meristem, while its expression level is much lower in leaf, root, immature seed and callus.
16754971	Bowman-Birk inhibitors (BBIs) are cysteine-rich proteins with inhibitory activity against proteases that are widely distributed in monocot and dicot species. The expression of rice BBI from Oryza sativa is up-regulated and induced by pathogens or insects during germination of rice seeds. The rice BBI (RBTI) of molecular weight 15 kDa has been crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. According to the diffraction of rice BBI crystals at a resolution of 2.07 A, the unit cell belongs to space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 74.37, b = 96.69, c = 100.36 A. Preliminary analysis indicates four BBI molecules in an asymmetric unit, with a solvent content of 58.29%.
16755008	Asthma is one of the major public health problems worldwide and the morbidity and mortality of asthma has increased in the past two decades. Accumulating data suggest that unnecessary immune responses and inflammation should be suppressed to treat asthma. The purpose of this study is to investigate the anti-asthmatic effects of DA-9201, an ethanolic extract of black rice (Oryza sativa L. var japonica), on an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced mouse model of asthma. Balb/c mice immunized with OVA were administered with DA-9201 (30, 100 or 300 mg/kg, p.o.) or dexamethasone (3 mg/kg, p.o.) and challenged with 1% aerosolized OVA for 30 min. The effects on airway inflammation, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), antibody profiles and cytokines were evaluated. DA-9201 treatment significantly reduced the number of eosinophils in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and ameliorated the AHR. Lung histological features also showed that DA-9201 reduced airway inflammation. Furthermore, DA-9201 treatment decreased IFN-gamma as well as IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13 levels in the supernatant of cultured splenocytes, and suppressed the level of OVA-specific IgG, IgG2a, IgG1 and total IgE in plasma. DA-9201 showed anti-asthmatic effects by suppressing unnecessary immune responses, airway inflammation, eosinophilia, AHR and IgE level. These results suggest DA-9201 might be beneficial for the treatment of asthma.
16755460	Neoplasms, autimmune disorders and infectious diseases as differential diagnoses of cervical lymphadenopathies also require the consideration of rare causes. A 25-year-old patient presented for further diagnosis and treatment of a colliquating, high febrile cervical lymphadenopathy. The patient from Thailand who had been living in Germany for 8 years reported she worked as rice farmer during the 1980s. Examination showed a vast physical condition with severe weight loss, joint- and swallowing aches which did not respond to high doses of parenteral antibiotic treatment. The histology of a lymph node revealed a necrotizing lymphadenitis, lymphoma were excluded. During further complications (sepsis, splenic and intracerebral abscesses and osteomyelitis) multiple different cytologic samples from lympoid tissue, different wound lesions and bronchial secretion microscopically showed non-fermenting, gram-negative rods by 16S-rDNA-analysis identified as Burkholderia cocovenenans/gladioli. Thus a melioidosis-like disease (endemic in south east asia) was diagnosed. Responsible for the severe course with a lethal recurrence despite antibiotic treatment was the patients additional immune defect (anti-interferone-gamma-autoantibodies). Travelling history informations become more and more important considering increasing long-distance travelling and worldwide migration movements. Unclear inflammatory/infectious diseases require early interdisciplinary treatment. Detailed informations for the pathologist facilitate the diagnosis.
16755461	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades play important roles in transmission of extracellular signals to the downstream effector proteins through a mechanism of protein phosphorylation. In this study, we isolated and identified a novel rice MAPK gene, OSBIMK2 (ORYZAE SATIVA L. BTH-Induced MAP Kinase 2). The OSBIMK2 encodes a 506 amino acid protein with molecular weight of 63 kD. The recombinant OSBIMK2 expressed in ESCHERICHIA COLI showed an autophosphorylation activity IN VITRO. OSBIMK2 is a single-copy gene in the rice genome. Expression of OSBIMK2 was activated upon treatment with benzothiadiazole (BTH), which is capable of inducing disease resistance in rice. Expression of OsBIMK2 was also up-regulated during early stage after inoculation with MAGNAPORTHE GRISEA in BTH-treated rice seedlings and during an incompatible interaction between M. GRISEA and a blast-resistant rice genotype. Over-expression of the rice OSBIMK2 gene in transgenic tobacco resulted in an enhanced disease resistance against tomato mosaic virus and a fungal pathogen, ALTERNARIA ALTERNATA. These results suggest that OSBIMK2 plays a role in disease resistance responses.
16756384	Rice protein isolate (RPI) has been reported to reduce the incidence of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene-induced mammary tumors in rats. To determine the potential role of phytochemicals associated with the RPI, we studied in vitro antitumor activities of an ether fraction from RPI using human tumor cell lines, including two human breast carcinoma cell lines (MDA-MB-453 and MCF-7) and two myeloma cell lines (RPMI-8226 and IM-9). Concentration-dependent antiproliferative effects of the ether fraction were observed in all cell lines using the standard 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. Fraction-induced apoptosis (P < 0.05) was detected in all cell lines, and this was associated with the induction of proapoptotic bax protein and cdk inhibitors (p21) and the suppression of cdk4 and cyclin D1 activity. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) with both positive and negative modes was used to analyze the phytochemicals in the ether fraction from RPI. Fifty-seven phytochemicals were identified or characterized by their diagnostic fragmentation patterns and direct comparison with the authentic standards on the basis of electrospray ionization-MS/MS data. The major components bound to RPI were lysoglycerophospholipids, fatty acids, and fatty acid 3-[2-(2,3-dihydroxy-propoxycarbonyl)-2-hydroxy-ethoxy]-2-hydroxy-propyl esters.
16756645	Control of the Anopheline mosquito vectors of malaria by use of insecticides has been shown to impact on both morbidity and mortality due to this disease. Evidence of insecticide resistance in different settings necessitates surveillance studies to allow prompt detection of resistance should it arise and thus enable its management. Possible resistance by Anopheles arabiensis mosquitoes from Mwea rice irrigation scheme in Central Kenya to insecticides in the four classes of insecticides approved by WHO for indoor residual spraying was investigated. Susceptibility to DDT (an organochlorine), fenitrothion (an organophosphate), bendiocarb (a carbamate), lambdacyhalothrin and permethrin (both pyrethroids) was tested using standard WHO diagnostic bioassay kits. Bioassays were performed on non-blood fed mosquitoes one- to three-day old. Knockdown was recorded every 10 min and mortality 24 h post-exposure was noted. Mortality 24 h post-exposure was 100% for all insecticides except for lambdacyhalothrin, which averaged 99.46%. Knockdown rates at 10 min intervals were not significantly different between the Mwea population and the susceptible KISUMU strain of Anopheles gambiae sensu stricto control. The KDT50 and KDT95 values for the Mwea population were either lower than those for the control or higher by factors of no more than 2 for most comparisons and compared well with those of An. gambiae sensu lato categorized as susceptible in other studies. These results suggest that the Mwea population of An. arabiensis is susceptible to all the insecticides tested. This implies that vector control measures employing any of these insecticides would not be hampered by resistance.
16756665	Salt stress is one of the most serious factors limiting the productivity of rice, the staple diet in many countries. Gibberellic acid has been reported to reduce NaCl-induced growth inhibition in some plants including rice. Most paddy soils have a natural population of Cyanobacteria, prokaryotic photosynthethic microorganisms, which synthesize and liberate plant growth regulators such as gibberellins that could exert a natural beneficial effect on salt stressed rice plants. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of the cyanobacterium Scytonema hofmanni extracellular products on the growth of rice seedlings inhibited by NaCl and to compare it with the effect of the gibberellic acid in the same stress condition. Growth (length and weight of the seedlings) and biochemical parameters (5-aminolevulinate dehydratase activity, total free porphyrin and pigments content) were evaluated. Salt exposure negatively affected all parameters measured, with the exception of chlorophyll. Chlrorophyll concentrations nearly doubled upon exposure to high salt. Gibberellic acid counteracted the effect of salt on the length and dry weight of the shoot, and on carotenoid and chlorophyll b contents. Extracellular products nullified the salt effect on shoot dry weight and carotenoid content; partially counteracted the effect on shoot length (from 54% to 38% decrease), root dry weight (from 59% to 41% decrease) and total free porphyrin (from 31 to 13% decrease); reduced by 35% the salt increase of chlorophyll a; had no effect on root length and chlorophyll b. Gibberellic acid and extracellular products increased 5-aminolevulinate dehydratase activity over the control without salt. When coincident with high salinity, exposure to either EP or GA3, resulted in a reversal of shoot-related responses to salt stress. We propose that Scytonema hofmanni extracellular products may counteract altered hormone homeostasis of rice seedlings under salt stress by producing gibberellin-like plant growth regulators.
16758443	Rice proteins were isolated from leaf, stem and root tissues, harvesting at 1, 2, 4, 8 and 10 weeks after budding. Each tissue of each age was separately pulverized in liquid nitrogen, and the resulted tissue powders were suspended in 10% TCA-acetone and followed by acetone suspension to precipitate at low temperature, which resulted in the tissue-specific and age-specific protein mixture. The protein mixtures were separated by 2-DE using polyacrylamide gels (26 x 20 cm). The protein spots were identified by N-terminal sequence analysis and by MALDI and LC-MS/MS analyses after in-gel tryptic digestion. From a total of 4532 spots, 676 unique proteins were identified, of which 80 proteins (12%) were observed in all three tissues: leaf, stem and root. In addition, 45 (7%) were common in leaf and stem, 57 (8%) in stem and root, and 10 (2%) proteins in root and leaf. Also 141 unique proteins (21%) were observed only for leaf, 96 (14%) for stem, and 247 (36%) for root tissue. Proteins playing a role for photosynthesis and energy production were most abundant in leaf and stem, and those for cell defense were rich in roots.
16758962	To investigate the environmental pollution of PCBs from the place where the disused transformers were taken apart. Take town F as the high exposed district for investigating and the town P which 100 kilometres is away from the town F as the low exposed district. At the same time, take town DXG which is 500 kilometres away from town F as the district for contrast. It was random and stated to extract samples of piped water, farmland rice and eggs. Then, the exceed-mark-quantity detecting methods were used to detect the PCBs and TEOs level in these samples. The content of PCBs in the samples was different except for piped water. Thediversity of the PCBs level in the hen's eggs was the most significant, duck's eggs took second place and farmland was the least. The order of PCBs level in the samples was: hen' s eggs > duck's eggs > farmland > rice > river water (stream) > piped water. The content of PCBs in each sample from Town F was higher than town P and town DXG on different levels. So the industry of taking the disused transformer apart had caused pollution of local environment.
16760221	In order to elucidate the function of cryptochromes (cry) in rice, we have characterized all rice CRY genes, including OsCRY1a, OsCRY1b and OsCRY2. Our studies revealed that OsCRY1 genes were mainly expressed in the green plant tissue, while OsCRY2 gene expression was high in the coleoptile, flower and callus. Light treatment affected neither the expression of any of the OsCRY genes nor the stability of their transcripts. However, it was found that Oscry2 protein was negatively regulated by blue light. Moreover, the level of Oscry2 protein also decreased upon red light treatment, and this red light-dependent degradation was shown to be mediated by phytochrome B. Overexpression of OsCRY1 genes resulted in an increased responsiveness to blue light when measuring coleoptile growth inhibition. Moreover, growth of leaf sheaths and blades was also repressed more in OsCRY1 overexpressers than in wild type (WT) under blue light conditions. These results suggest that Oscry1s are responsible for regulating blue light-mediated de-etiolation in rice. In addition, OsCRY2 antisense transgenic rice flowered later than WT under both long-day and short-day conditions, indicating that Oscry2 is involved in the promotion of flowering time in rice.
16760495
16760516	Mosquito-borne diseases are a major public health threat in Sri Lanka. A 20-week pilot education program to improve community knowledge and mosquito control with participatory and non-chemical approaches was developed, implemented, and evaluated using pre-educational and post-educational surveys in two intervention and two comparison villages. Correlates of baseline knowledge were sex, number of family members, ratio of family members with malaria history, school education level, and availability of electricity at the residence. Participation in the educational program led to improved knowledge of mosquito ecology and disease epidemiology, changes in agricultural practices, and an increase in environmentally sound measures for mosquito control and disease prevention. The variety of actions at the post-educational stage were determined by improved knowledge, but not by sociodemographic characteristics. Such community-based educational interventions are effective in increasing understanding and active involvement in mosquito control and disease prevention in rice ecosystems regardless of sociodemographic characteristics.
16760615	Silicon is the second-most abundant element on the surface of the earth, and has been considered important for plant growth and development. As for its role in enhanced plant disease resistance, silicon has been reported to reinforce the physical barrier against the penetration and colonization of pathogens. Rice leaves of silicon-treated plants and control plants at the eight- and twelve-leaf growth stages were analyzed by 29Si solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to characterize the silicon-induced, cell wall fortification of rice leaves, which demonstrated an ability to counter a pathogen attack.
16761097	As the sole ubiquitous signal small guanosine triphosphate-binding protein in plants, Rop gene plays an important role in plant growth and development. In this study, we focus on the relationship between the novel rice Rop gene OsRacB and plant salt tolerance. Results show that OsRacB transcription is highly accumulated in roots after treatment with salinity, but only slightly accumulated in stems and leaves under the same treatment. Promoter analysis showed that OsRacB promoter is induced by salinity and exogenous salicylic acid, not abscisic acid. To elucidate its physiological function, we generated OsRacB sense and antisense transgenic tobacco and rice. Under proper salinity treatment, sense transgenic plants grew much better than the control. This suggests that overexpression of OsRacB in tobacco and rice can improve plant salt tolerance. But under the same treatment, no difference could be observed between OsRacB antisense plants and the control. The results indicated that OsRacB is only an accessory factor in plant salt tolerance.
16762031	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC), a key enzyme of primary metabolism of higher plants, is regulated by reversible phosphorylation, which is catalyzed by PEPC kinase (PPCK). Rice has three functional PPCK genes, OsPPCK1, OsPPCK2 and OsPPCK3, all of which have an intron close to the 3' end of the coding region. A novel control mechanism was found for expression of OsPPCK2, namely alternative transcription initiation, and two different transcripts were detected. The four different transcripts of the OsPPCK genes showed different expression patterns. While OsPPCK1 and OsPPCK3 were highly expressed in roots and at low levels in other organs, the two OsPPCK2 transcripts were expressed in all organs. OsPPCK3 was expressed mostly at night, while the long OsPPCK2 transcripts were present in the leaves only in the daytime. Nitrate supplementation of leaves selectively induced expression of both OsPPCK2 transcripts, while phosphate starvation only induced the shorter one. Such diverse expression patterns of OsPPCK genes suggest the importance and variety of strict activity regulation of PEPC in rice. From the correlation between gene expression and the phosphorylation level of PEPC, which was monitored as that of the maize PEPC expressed in transgenic rice plants, it was concluded that the short OsPPCK2 transcripts were expressed in rice leaf mesophyll cells upon nitrogen supplementation and phosphate starvation, whereas OsPPCK3 participated in the nocturnal phosphorylation of PEPC in these cells. Expression of PPCK proteins in rice leaves was detected by immunoblotting using a specific antiserum, and the expression of two different OsPPCK2 proteins derived from alternative transcription initiation was confirmed.
16762503	The mandarin Hon-Chi is the red yeast rice fermented with Monascus pilous and Monascus purpureus. The present study is designed to screen the effect of Hon-Chi on plasma glucose and investigate the possible mechanisms. After oral administration into fasting Wistar rats for 90min, Hon-Chi decreased the plasma glucose in a dose-dependent manner. In parallel to the reduction of plasma glucose, an increase of plasma level of insulin or C-peptide was also observed in rats receiving same treatment. Moreover, disruption of synaptic available acetylcholine (ACh) using an inhibitor of choline uptake, hemicholinium-3, or vesicular acetylcholine transport, vesamicol, abolished these actions of Hon-Chi. Also, physostigmine at concentration sufficient to inhibit acetylcholinesterase enhanced the actions of Hon-Chi. Mediation of ACh release from the nerve terminals to enhance insulin secretion by Hon-Chi can thus be considered. Both the plasma glucose lowering action and the raised plasma levels of insulin and C-peptide induced by Hon-Chi were also inhibited by 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperdine methiodide (4-DAMP), but not affected by the ganglionic nicotinic antagonist, pentolinium or hexamethonium, indicating the mediation of muscarinic M(3) receptors. The results suggest that Hon-Chi has an ability to raise the release of ACh from nerve terminals, which in turn to stimulate muscarinic M(3) receptors in pancreatic cells and augment the insulin release to result in plasma glucose lowering action. Thus, Hon-Chi seems suitable to employ as the health food for increase of insulin secretion in the prevention of type-2 diabetes.
16764264	Lossless compression of color mosaic images poses a unique and interesting problem of spectral decorrelation of spatially interleaved R, G, B samples. We investigate reversible lossless spectral-spatial transforms that can remove statistical redundancies in both spectral and spatial domains and discover that a particular wavelet decomposition scheme, called Mallat wavelet packet transform, is ideally suited to the task of decorrelating color mosaic data. We also propose a low-complexity adaptive context-based Golomb-Rice coding technique to compress the coefficients of Mallat wavelet packet transform. The lossless compression performance of the proposed method on color mosaic images is apparently the best so far among the existing lossless image codecs.
16764489	Ecological changes caused by the insecticide imidacloprid and a pollutant from antidandruff shampoos (zinc pyrithione) were monitored in experimental paddies throughout a cultivation period. A total of 88 species were observed, with 54 of them aquatic. Plankton, nekton, benthic, and terrestrial communities from imidacloprid fields had significantly less abundance of organisms compared with control and shampoo-treated fields, either for the entire period or during early stages. The absence of Chironomus yoshimatsui and typical paddy ostracods from imidacloprid fields was most remarkable; as a consequence, green algae blooms (Spirogyra sp.) developed, which in turn hampered the establishment of weeds. Such changes occurred while residues of imidacloprid in water were present at levels greater than 1 microg/L. The overall diversity was similar in all fields and increased constantly until the end of the study. Phytophagous insects dominated in early communities, gradually giving way to predators and scavengers during late stages, but imidacloprid fields had a lower proportion of the latter trophic group. Multivariate analyses helped to describe and differentiate the communities between treatments and control. Hazard- and risk-assessment methods overestimated the effects of zinc pyrithione but failed to predict imidacloprid impacts, probably because of deficiencies in the exposure and relevant toxicity data used.
16765070	Light is a major environmental factor that influences many biological processes. We characterized the roles of light in asexual development (including the formation of aerial hyphae and conidiophore) in Magnaporthe oryzae, which is the causal agent of rice blast disease. Our data revealed a complex nature of light regulation in the asexual developments of M. oryzae. Asexual development of M. oryzae is suppressed by blue light in a light/dark cycling environment and asexual spore release is controlled by both blue and red light. We demonstrated that even very dim light, about 10 micromol m(-2), is sufficient to suppress spore-release behavior in M. oryzae. We also generated knockout strains of a blue light receptor, mgwc-1, the M. oryzae homolog of white collar-1 in Neurospora crassa, and demonstrated blue-light-specific regulation in the asexual development and spore release in M. oryzae. Our findings in this agriculturally important pathogen, M. oryzae, broaden our understanding of the roles of light in fungal development.
16766512	We searched the genomes of eight rice cultivars (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica and ssp. indica) and a wild rice accession (Oryza rufipogon Griffith) for nucleotide polymorphisms, and identified 7805 polymorphic loci, including single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and insertions/deletions (InDels), in predicted intergenic regions. Polymorphisms are useful as DNA markers for genetic analysis or positional cloning with segregating populations of crosses. Pairwise comparison between cultivars and a neighbor-joining tree calculated from SNPs agreed very well with relationships between rice strains predicted from pedigree data or calculated with other DNA markers such as p-SINE1 and simple sequence repeats (SSRs), suggesting that whole-genome SNP information can be used for analysis of evolutionary relationships. Using multiple SNPs to identify alleles, we drew a map to illustrate the alleles shared among the eight cultivars and the accession. The map revealed that most of the genome is mono- or di-allelic among japonica cultivars, whereas alleles well conserved among modern japonica paddy rice cultivars were often shared with indica cultivars or wild rice, suggesting that the genome structure of modern cultivars is composed of chromosomal segments from various genetic backgrounds. Use of allele-sharing analysis and association analysis were also tested and are discussed.
16766513	14-3-3 proteins function as major regulators of primary metabolism and cellular signal transduction in plants. However, their involvement in plant defense and stress responses is largely unknown. In order to better address functions of the rice 14-3-3/GF14 proteins in defense and abiotic stress responses, we examined the rice GF14 family that comprises eight numbers. The phylogenetic comparison with the Arabidopsis 14-3-3 family revealed that the majority of rice GF14s might have evolved as an independent branch. At least four rice GF14 genes, GF14b, GF14c, GF14e and Gf14f were differentially regulated in the interactions of rice-Magnaporthe grisea and rice-Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, and the incompatible interactions stronger induced the genes than the compatible interactions. These GF14 genes were also induced by the defense compounds, benzothiadiazole, methyl jasmonate, ethephon and hydrogen peroxide. Similarly, they were differentially regulated by salinity, drought, wounding and abscisic acid. Tissue-specific analysis and expression of GF14-YFP fusions revealed that the four GF14 isoforms were expressed with tissue specificity and accumulated differentially in the cytoplasm and nucleus. Our current study provides fundamental information for the further investigation of the rice GF14 proteins.
16766658	Cultivated rice, Oryza sativa L., represents the world's most important staple food crop, feeding more than half of the human population. Despite this essential role in world agriculture, the history of cultivated rice's domestication from its wild ancestor, Oryza rufipogon, remains unclear. In this study, DNA sequence variation in three gene regions is examined in a phylogeographic approach to investigate the domestication of cultivated rice. Results indicate that India and Indochina may represent the ancestral center of diversity for O. rufipogon. Additionally, the data suggest that cultivated rice was domesticated at least twice from different O. rufipogon populations and that the products of these two independent domestication events are the two major rice varieties, Oryza sativa indica and Oryza sativa japonica. Based on this geographical analysis, O. sativa indica was domesticated within a region south of the Himalaya mountain range, likely eastern India, Myanmar, and Thailand, whereas O. sativa japonica was domesticated from wild rice in southern China.
16767172	Naturally occurring allelic variations underlying complex traits are useful resources for the functional analysis of plant genes. To facilitate the genetic analysis of complex traits and the use of marker-assisted breeding in rice, we developed a wide population consisting of 217 chromosome single-segment substitution lines (SSSLs) using Oryza sativa L. 'Hua-Jing-Xian74' (HJX74), an elite Indica cultivar, as recipient, and 6 other accessions, including 2 Indica and 4 Japonica, as donors. Each SSSL contains a single substituted chromosome segment derived from 1 of the 6 donors in the genetic background of HJX74. The total size of the substituted segments in the SSSL population was 4695.0 cM, which was 3.1 times that of rice genome. To evaluate the potential application of these SSSLs for quantitative trait loci detection, phenotypic variations of the quantitative traits of days to heading and grain length in the population consisting of 210 SSSLs were observed under natural environmental conditions. The results demonstrated that there was a wide range of phenotypic variation in the traits in the SSSL population. These genetic materials will be powerful tools to dissect complex traits into a set of monogenic loci and to assign phenotypic values to different alleles at the locus of interest.
16767180	In the root meristem cells of the rice line AMR, which causes loss of heterozygosity in its hybrids, both normal and assortment mitoses were observed. During normal mitosis, chromosomes did not form homologous pairs at metaphase; all chromosomes lined up at the equatorial plate and 2 chromatids of each chromosome disjoined at the centromere and moved toward opposite poles. During assortment mitosis, varying numbers of paired homologues were observed at mitotic metaphase. Two groups of 12 chromosomes separated and moved towards the opposite poles of daughter cells with few chromosomes having their chromatids separated at anaphase. These observations support the proposed mechanism that is responsible for early genotype fixation in rice hybrids involving AMR.
16767181	Grande is an abundant gypsy-like retrotransposon present in the genera Zea and Tripsacum. Related retro transposon families can be found in sorghum, rice, and barley, but not in wheat or rye. We have amplified and sequenced several copies of part of the integrase domain derived from the Zea mays, Zea diploperennis, and Tripsacum dactyloides genomes. There are no significant differences in divergence or clustering between the integrase sequences of these species. The substitution rate for synonimous sites was found to be higher than those of non-synomymous sites; this indicates that Grande integrase has been under purifying selection for function. Grande is transcribed in leaves. The transcripts show sequence diversity similar to that of genomic sequences, but belong to restricted clades; this indicates that only some evolutionary branches of Grande have retained transcriptional competence.
16768002	Intact rice roots, ambient air, soil and irrigation water samples were collected from two sites at Baodi and Xinli, Tianjin. The rice roots were separated into nodal roots and lateral roots, which were extracted individually using a three-step sequential extraction procedure to measure the sorbed, strongly sorbed and interior adsorbed fractions. The results show that remarkable difference of PAH contents between the samples from the two sites and relatively higher PAH contents in the lateral roots than those in the nodal roots, around 60% of the total PAHs detected were those absorbed in the root tissues. Specific surface area and lipid content of the roots are main factors influencing PAH contents.
16769152	We cloned a rice cDNA encoding a putative arginine decarboxylase (ADC) protein, a key enzyme involved with putrescine (Put) biosynthesis in plants. The isolated full-length cDNA (OsADC1) contains an insert consisting of 2451 bp. The longest open reading frame within encodes a putative protein of 702 amino acids, with a calculated molecular mass of 74 kDa and an isoelectric point of 4.9. ClustalW alignment revealed that the deduced OsADC1 protein sequence shares overall 60% and 61% identity at the amino acid level with the Pisum sativum and Glycine max ADC proteins, respectively. Additionally, several OsADC1 regions exhibited striking similarity with these two other plant ADC protein sequences, including motifs characteristic of ADC proteins. Further, RNA gel blot analysis revealed markedly increased OsADC1 mRNA levels in rice seedling leaves subjected to chilling stress. Interestingly, this treatment induced a concomitant increase in free Put levels in these samples, coincident with the observed elevated OsADC1 mRNA levels. To our knowledge, this represents the first direct evidence supporting essentially chilling-specific regulation of a rice ADC gene that also potentially influences Put accumulation, a phenomenon previously noted in cold-stressed rice seedlings.
16769209	Derivatives of pyrazolo[1,5-a][1, 3, 5]triazine-2,4-dione,pyrazolo[1,5-c][1, 3, 5]thiadiazine-2-one, pyrazolo[3,4-d][1, 3]thiazine-4-one, and pyrazolo[3,4-d][1, 3]thiazine-4-thione were screened for antifungal activity against the causal agent of rice blast disease, Magnaporthe grisea. The compounds were tested at doses ranging from 10 to 200mugml(-1), using the commercial fungicide tricyclazole as reference compound. All triazine derivatives inhibited the growth and pigmentation of the mycelia less effectively than tricyclazole. The thiadiazine derivatives proved to be more effective than their triazine counterparts, but only 4-(butylimino)-7-methylpyrazolo[1,5-c][1,3,5]thiadiazine-2-one (2h) and 4-(cyclohexylimino)-7-methylpyrazolo[1,5-c][1,3,5]thiadiazine-2-one (2j) were more effective than tricyclazole. Pyrazolo[3,4-d][1,3]thiazine-4-one derivatives were active only at the highest doses, whereas members of the pyrazolo[3,4-d][1,3]thiazine-4-thione series inhibited fungal growth at the lowest concentrations used, at which tricyclazole had no effect. A dose-dependent mechanism might be responsible for this effect, with lipophilicity as the governing factor. Within a given set, the presence of a cyclohexyl or an n-butyl group generally increased antifungal activity, with respect to both growth inhibition and cell de-pigmentation of the mycelium, suggesting that a higher lipophilicity might improve transport inside the cells. SEM and TEM of M. grisea hyphae showed that treatment with the most active substance (2h) caused significant ultrastructural effects, particularly on the endomembrane system, suggesting a mechanism of action similar to that of most azole fungicides. Dissimilarities were also observed, with no alterations of the cell wall evident. In conclusion, several compounds showed greater inhibition than tricyclazole, and therefore provide useful new chemistry for control of M. grisea infections.
16769240	Many agronomically important traits are governed by several genes known as quantitative trait loci (QTLs). The identification of important, QTL-controlled agricultural traits has been difficult because of their complex inheritance; however, completion of the rice genomic sequence has facilitated the cloning of QTLs and their pyramiding for breeding. Because QTLs are derived from natural variation, the use of a wider range of variations such as that found in wild species is important. In addition, Introgression Lines (ILs) developed from wild species in combination with Marker Assisted Selection should facilitate efficient gene identification. This review describes recent developments in rice QTL analysis including mapping, cloning and pyramiding QTLs.
16769692	With the aim of establishing the basic knowledge and resources needed for applied genetics, we investigated the genome structure of red clover Trifolium pratense L. by a combination of cytological, genomic and genetic approaches. The deduced genome size was approximately 440 Mb, as estimated by measuring the nuclear DNA content by flow cytometry. Seven chromosomes could be distinguished by microscopic observation of DAPI stained prometaphase chromosomes and fluorescence in situ hybridization using 28S and 5S rDNA probes and bacterial artificial chromosome probes containing microsatellite markers with known positions on a genetic linkage map. The average GC content of the genomes of chloroplast, mitochondrion and nucleus were shown to be 33.8, 42.9 and 34.2%, respectively, by the analysis of 1.4 Mb of random genomic sequences. A total of 26,356 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) that were grouped into 9339 non-redundant sequences were collected, and 78% of the ESTs showed sequence similarity to registered genes, mainly of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. To facilitate basic and applied genetics in red clover, we generated a high-density genetic linkage map with gene-associated microsatellite markers. A total of 7159 primer pairs were designed to amplify simple sequence repeats (SSRs) identified in four different types of libraries. Based on sequence similarity, 82% of the SSRs were likely to be associated with genes. Polymorphism was examined using two parent plants, HR and R130, and 10 F(1) progeny by agarose gel electrophoresis, followed by genotyping for the primer pairs showing polymorphisms using 188 F(1) plants from the mapping population. The selected 1305 microsatellite markers as well as the previously developed 167 restriction fragment length polymorphism markers were subjected to linkage analysis. A total of 1434 loci detected by 1399 markers were successfully mapped onto seven linkage groups totaling 868.7 cM in length; 405 loci (28%) were bi-parental, 611 (43%) were specific to HR and 418 (29%) were specific to R130. Each genetic linkage group was linked to a corresponding chromosome by FISH analysis using seven microsatellite markers specific to each of the linkage groups as probes. Transferability of the developed microsatellite markers to other germplasms was confirmed by testing 268 selected markers on 88 red clover germplasms. Macrosynteny at the segmental level was observed between the genomes of red clover and two model legumes, Lotus japonicus and Medicago truncatula, strongly suggesting that the genome information for the model legumes is transferable to red clover for genetic investigations and experimental breeding.
16769698	Intron length polymorphisms (ILPs) have been used as genetic markers in some studies. However, a systematic investigation and large-scale exploitation of ILP markers has not been reported. In this study, we performed a genome-wide search of ILPs between two subspecies (indica and japonica) in rice using the draft genomic sequences of cultivars 93-11 (indica) and Nipponbare (japonica) and 32,127 full-length cDNA sequences of Nipponbare obtained from public databases. We identified 13,308 putative ILPs. Based on these putative ILPs, we developed 5811 candidate ILP markers via electronic-PCR with primers designed in flanking exons. We further conducted experiment to verify the candidate ILP markers. Out of 215 candidate ILP markers tested on 93-11, Nipponbare and their hybrid, we successfully exploited 173 codominant ILP markers. Further analyses on 10 rice accessions showed that these ILP markers were widely applicable and most (71.1%) exhibited subspecies specificity. This feature suggests that ILPs would be useful for the studies of genome evolution and inter-subspecies heterosis and for cross-subspecies marker-assisted selection in rice. In addition, by testing 51 pairs of the ILP primers on five Gramineae plants and three dicot plants, we found another desirable characteristic of rice ILP markers that they have high transferability to other plants.
16770601	SIL040, an introgression line (IL) developed by introgressing chromosomal segments from an accession of Oryza rufipogon into an indica cultivar Guichao 2, showed significantly less grains per panicle than the recurrent parent Guichao 2. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis in F2 and F3 generations derived from the cross between SIL040 and Guichao 2 revealed that gpa7, a QTL located on the short arm of chromosome 7, was responsible of this variation. Alleles from O. rufipogon decreased grains per panicle. To fine mapping of gpa7, a high-resolution map with 1,966 F2 plants derived from the cross between SIL040 and Guichao 2 using markers flanking gpa7 was constructed, and detailed quantitative evaluation of the structure of main panicle of each of F3 families derived from recombinants screened was performed. By two-step substitution mapping, gpa7 was finally narrowed down to a 35-kb region that contains five predicted genes in cultivated rice. The fact that QTLs for five panicle traits (length of panicle, primary branches per panicle, secondary branches per panicle, grains on primary branches and grains on secondary branches) were all mapped in the same interval as that for gpa7 suggested that this locus was associated with panicle structure, showing pleiotropic effects. The characterizing of panicle structure of IL SIL040 further revealed that, during the domestication from common wild allele to cultivated rice one at gpa7, not only the number of branches and grains per panicle increased significantly, more importantly, but also the ratio of secondary branches per panicle to total branches per panicle and the ratio of grains on secondary branches per panicle to total grains per panicle increased significantly. All these results reinforced the idea that gpa7 might play an important role in the regulation of grain number per panicle and the ratio of secondary branches per panicle during the domestication of rice panicle.
16771117	Obesity and diabetes are epidemics in Mexico and the prevalence is currently highest among the low-income population. The aim of the present study was to compare the action of different breakfasts on satiety and subsequent food intake among healthy women. Eight healthy women participated in the study. Participants were given four experimental breakfasts. Visual analogue rating scales were completed before and every 30 minutes for 3 hours after each experimental meal to record subjective feelings of satiety. Subjects were exposed to an ad libitum buffet 3 h after the experimental breakfast. Energy and macronutrient intakes were calculated at each meal. Mean +/- SD SAUC for white bread was 355 +/- 60, for rice and bananas: 405 +/- 108, for whole wheat bread and boiled beans: 446 +/- 83, and for fruit salad: 585 +/- 79 (Table II). Statistical differences were observed among the four experimental meals (p = 0,002). After the consumption of white bread, energy intake was the highest with 872 +/- 58 kcal, and after the consumption of fruit salad the intake of calories was the lowest: 461 +/- 51 kcal. Energy intake 4 h after each breakfast shows statistical differences (p = 0,0001). These results suggest the need to promote culturally based combined foods with high fiber and low GI, as well as foods with high volume and water content. This approach might contribute to the prevention of obesity by increasing satiety and reducing food consumption and energy intake.
16771774	Gene expression patterns covering over 10,000 seed-expressed sequences were analyzed by macroarray technology in maternal tissue (mainly pericarp) and filial endosperm and embryo during barley seed development from anthesis until late maturation. Defined sets of genes showing distinct expression patterns characterized both tissue type and major developmental phases. The analysis focused on regulatory networks involved in programmed cell death (PCD) and abscisic acid (ABA)-mediated maturation. These processes were similar in the different tissues, but typically involved the expression of alternative members of a common gene family. The analysis of co-expressed gene sets and the identification of cis regulatory elements in orthologous rice gene 'promoter' regions suggest that PCD in the pericarp is mediated by distinct classes of proteases and is under the hormonal control of both jasmonic acid (JA) and ethylene via ethylene-responsive element binding protein (EREBP) transcription factors (TFs). On the other hand, PCD in endosperm apparently involves only the ethylene pathway, but employs distinct gene family members from those active in the pericarp, and a different set of proteases and TFs. JA biosynthetic genes are hardly activated. Accordingly, JA levels are high in the pericarp but low in the endosperm during middle and late developmental stages. Similarly, genes acting in the deduced ABA biosynthetic pathway and signaling network differ between endosperm and embryo. ABA in the endosperm appears to exert an influence over storage product synthesis via SNF1 kinase. In the embryo, ABA seems to influence the acquisition of desiccation tolerance via ABA response element binding factors, but the data also suggest the existence of an ABA-independent but interactive pathway acting via the dehydration-responsive element binding (DREB) 2A TF.
16773042	Aquaporins play a significant role in plant water relations. To further understand the aquaporin function in plants under water stress, the expression of a subgroup of aquaporins, plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs), was studied at both the protein and mRNA level in upland rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Zhonghan 3) and lowland rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Xiushui 63) when they were water stressed by treatment with 20% polyethylene glycol (PEG). Plants responded differently to 20% PEG treatment. Leaf water content of upland rice leaves was reduced rapidly. PIP protein level increased markedly in roots of both types, but only in leaves of upland rice after 10 h of PEG treatment. At the mRNA level, OsPIP1;2, OsPIP1;3, OsPIP2;1 and OsPIP2;5 in roots as well as OsPIP1;2 and OsPIP1;3 in leaves were significantly up-regulated in upland rice, whereas the corresponding genes remained unchanged or down-regulated in lowland rice. Meanwhile, we observed a significant increase in the endogenous abscisic acid (ABA) level in upland rice but not in lowland rice under water deficit. Treatment with 60 microM ABA enhanced the expression of OsPIP1;2, OsPIP2;5 and OsPIP2;6 in roots and OsPIP1;2, OsPIP2;4 and OsPIP2;6 in leaves of upland rice. The responsiveness of PIP genes to water stress and ABA were different, implying that the regulation of PIP genes involves both ABA-dependent and ABA-independent signaling pathways during water deficit.
16773235	The disease caused by rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is a major, economically important constraint to rice production in Africa. RYMV is mechanically transmitted by a variety of agents, including insect vectors. The production of resistant rice varieties would be an important advance in the control of the disease and increase rice production in Africa. We produced transgenic plants of the Oryza sativa japonica variety, TP309, to express a RYMV coat protein gene (CP) and mutants of the CP under the control of a ubiquitin promoter. Transgenic plants expressing genes that encode wild-type CP (wt.CP), deleted CP (DeltaNLS.CP), mRNA of the CP, or antisense CP sequences of the CP gene were characterised. Eighty per cent (80%) of independent transgenic lines analysed contained CP gene sequences. Transgenic plants were challenged with RYMV and produced two types of reactions. Most of the plants expressing antisense sequences of the CP and untranslatable CP mRNA exhibited a delay in virus accumulation of up to a week, and the level of virus accumulation was reduced compared with non-transgenic TP309 plants. Transgenic plants expressing RYMV wild-type CP (wt.CP) and deleted CP (DeltaNLS.CP) accumulated the highest levels of virus particles. These results suggest that antisense CP and untranslatable CP mRNA induced moderate resistance, whereas transgenic CP enhanced virus infection.
16773731	Genotypic and environmental variation in Cd, Cr, As, Ni and Pb concentrations of grains, and the relationships between these heavy metals and Fe, Zn were investigated using 9 rice genotypes grown in 6 locations for two successive years. Significant genotypic variation was detected in the five heavy metal concentrations in grains, indicating the possibility to reduce the concentration of these heavy metals in grains through breeding approach. The environmental effect varied with metal, with Pb and Ni having greater variation than the other three metals. There was significant genotype-environment (location) interaction of the concentrations of all five heavy metals in grains, suggesting the importance of cultivar choice in producing rice with low heavy metal concentrations in grains for a given location. Correlation analysis showed that Cd and As, Cr and Ni, and As and Pb concentrations in rice grains were closely associated, and that Ni concentration in grains was negatively correlated with Zn concentration.
16773732	Studies were initiated for two consecutive years to find out the effect of time of transplanting and seedlings hill(-1) on the productivity of rice in Dera Ismail Khan district of North West Frontier Province (NWFP), Pakistan. The experiment was laid out in a randomized complete block design with split plot arrangements. Main plots consisted of four transplanting dates viz. 20th and 27th of June and 4th and 11th of July while sub-plots contained 1, 2, 3 or 4 seedlings hill(-1). Among transplanting dates, June 20th planted crop gave highest paddy yield and net return with 1 seedling hill(-1). It explains that the use of more seedlings hill(-1) not only adds to cost but is also a mere wastage of natural resources. Based on research findings, we conclude that the use of 1 seedling hill(-1) is most appropriate for timely sowing otherwise 4 seedlings hill(-1) should be used to compensate for the yield gap in late transplanted rice.
16774211	The potential energy surface (PES) for the formation of tropylium and benzylium ions from toluene cation (1) has been explored theoretically. Quantum chemical calculations at the B3LYP/6-311++G and G3//B3LYP levels were performed. A pathway to form o-isotoluene (5-methylene-1,3-cyclohexadiene) cation (5) from 1 was found. The isomerization occurs by two consecutive 1,2-H shifts from CH(3) to the ortho position of the aromatic ring via a distonic benzenium cation (2), which is also an intermediate in the well-known isomerization of 1 to cycloheptatriene cation (4). Since the barrier for the formation of 2 is the highest in the two isomerization pathways, 1, 4, and 5 are interconvertible energetically prior to dissociation. The benzylium ion can be produced via 5 as well as from 1 and the tropylium ion via 4. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus model calculations were carried out based on the obtained PES. The result agrees with previous experimental observations. From a theoretical analysis of kinetics of the isomerizations and dissociations, we suggest that 5 plays an important role in the formation of C(7)H(7)(+) from 1.
16774645	We report here evidence of the role that the isoform of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4G (eIF(iso)4G) plays in naturally occurring resistance in plant/virus interactions. A genetic and physical mapping approach was developed to isolate the Rymv1 locus controlling the high recessive resistance to Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) in the rice (Oryza sativa) variety Gigante. The locus was mapped to a 160-kb interval containing a gene from the eIF(iso)4G family. The stable transformation of a resistant line with the cDNA of this gene, derived from a susceptible variety, resulted in the loss of resistance in transgenic plants. The allelic variability of this gene was analysed in three resistant and 17 susceptible varieties from different cultivated rice species or subspecies. Compared with susceptible varieties, resistant varieties present specific alleles, characterized by either amino acid substitutions or short amino-acid deletions in the middle domain of the protein. The structure of this domain was modelled and showed that the substitutions were clustered on a small surface patch. This suggests that this domain may be involved in an interaction with the virus.
16774928	Histone modifications such as methylation and acetylation in the chromatin surrounding a gene are thought to regulate transcriptional activity. In this study, to determine whether dynamic changes occur in histone modification on the loci of stress-responsive genes in plants, we chose rice submergence-inducible ADH1 and PDC1 genes. When submerged, the rice ADH1 and PDC1 genes were activated in a biphasic manner: the first and second inductions occurred after approximately 2 and 12 h of submergence, respectively. Their expression was transcriptionally induced as shown by increased binding of RNA polymerase II to the ADH1 and PDC1 loci during submergence. The Lys4 residues of the histone H3 proteins (H3-K4s) at both the 5'- and 3'-coding regions of ADH1 and PDC1 were found to change from a di-methylated state to a tri-methylated state at the first induction period. On the other hand, acetylation of H3 increased throughout ADH1 and PDC1 genes at the later induction period. The methylation and acetylation levels recovered to the initial levels during re-aeration. Treatment of seedlings with a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, trichostatin A, increased acetylation of histones H3 and association of RNA polymerase II on the ADH1 and PDC1 loci, thereby increasing transcript levels of ADH1 and PDC1. Together, these results showed dynamic and reversible changes of histone H3-K4 methylation and H3 acetylation in stress-responsive genes in a higher plant in response to the appearance or disappearance of an environmental stress.
16774931	'Nudix' hydrolases are widely distributed nucleotide pyrophosphatases that possess a conserved GX5EX7REUXEEXGU motif where U is usually isoleucine, leucine or valine. Among them, Escherichia coli ADP-sugar pyrophosphatase (ASPP) has been shown to catalyze the hydrolytic breakdown of ADP-glucose linked to bacterial glycogen biosynthesis. Comparisons of the 31 different Nudix-encoding sequences of the Arabidopsis genome with those coding for known bacterial and mammalian ASPPs identified one sequence possessing important divergences in the Nudix motif that, once expressed in E. coli, produced a protein with ASPP activity. This protein, designated as AtASPP, shares strong homology with hypothetical rice and potato proteins, indicating that ASPPs are widely distributed in both mono- and dicotyledonous plants. As a first step to test the possible involvement of plant ASPPs in regulating the intracellular levels of ADP-glucose linked to starch biosynthesis, we produced and characterized AtASPP-overexpressing Arabidopsis plants. Source leaves from these plants exhibited a large reduction in the levels of both ADP-glucose and starch, indicating that plant ASPPs catalyze the hydrolytic breakdown of a sizable pool of ADP-glucose linked to starch biosynthesis. No pleiotropic changes in maximum catalytic activities of enzymes closely linked to starch metabolism could be detected in AtASPP-overexpressing leaves. The overall information provides the first evidence for the existence of plant Nudix hydrolases that have access to an intracellular pool of ADP-glucose linked to starch biosynthesis.
16775395	The ORF100, ORF29-TrnC(GCA) spacer, rps16 gene intron and TrnT(UGU)-TrnL(UAA) spacer of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) of 6 photoperiod-sensitive genic male sterile (PGMS) rice, Nongken58S and its 5 derivatives, were amplified and sequenced. According to the result of ORF100 and ORF29-TrnC(GCA) spacer analysis, the cpDNA of japonica PGMS line Nongken58S was Japonica, and among those PGMS lines derived from Nongken58S, cpDNA of japonica 7001S and 3 indica lines 1103S, Peiai64S and Guangzhan63S were that of japonica, which was in accordance with the cytoplasm pedigree provided by their breeders. But the cpDNA of indica PGMS line W6154S was that of indica, which disaccorded with the cytoplasm pedigree, so we conjectured that the breeders had used the PGMS line as the male parent. Basing on the result of sequence analysis, we found single nucleotide polymorphism in rps16 gene intron and TrnT(UGU)-TrnL(UAA) spacer of these 5 japonica PGMS lines.
16775397	Under constant light, increases in V(t) (total respiration rate), V(alt) (capacity of alternative pathway), and V(alt)/V(t) ration values (Figs.1-3) in fully etiolated rice seedlings leaves were founded. Northern hybridization with special probes for rice AOX1a, AOX1b and AOX1c revealed that the AOX1c mRNA was mainly present under constant light (Fig.4). SHAM (salicylhydroxamic acid) decreased the relative oxygen evolution rate and chlorophyll content during the rapid greening of the etiolated rice seedlings (Figs.6, 7). We found that illumination caused bigger increase in V(alt) in fully etiolated rice seedlings than in any partially etiolated rice seedlings (Fig.8A), while the soluble sugar contents did not show any significant differences (Fig.8B). This revealed the connection between greening process and cyanide-resistant respiration in rice seedlings. We infer that one of the possible functions of the cyanide-resistant respiration is to maintain a high rate of respiratory electron transport for the essential biosynthesis processes at the early stage of chloroplast development. Cyanide-resistant respiration may provide a regulatory mechanism for the balance between the requirements of the energy and substances.
16775404	To study the nature and mechanisms of resistance of rice plants to chilling stress, the effects of low temperature treatment (8 degrees C) on the photosynthetic rate and some important compounds forming redox cycles were measured. The rice varieties used are two japonica rice varieties, i.e., Taipei 309 and Wuyujing; three indica rice varieties, i.e., IR64, Pusa and CA212; and one intermediate type, i.e., Shanyou 63. Three types of varieties were studied by comparing. The light intensity-photosynthesis curves, CO2-photosynthesis curves, primary photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm), active oxygen species (AOS) (O2*- and H2O2), glutathione (both oxidized and reduced forms) and ascorbate contents in their six-week old seedlings were measured before and after chilling treatment. The results showed that relative to the rice varieties chilling tolerance such as Taipei 309 and Wuyujing, the sensitive ones indica IR64, Pusa and CA212 exhibited a stronger inhibition of maximum photosynthetic rate (Pmax) (Figs.1 and 2) and a decrease in Fv/Fm (Fig.3), which led to the accumulation of AOS (Fig.6). It was found that the glutathione disulphide (GSSG) content in glutathione pool and that of dehydroascorbate (DHA) in ascorbate pool of the leaves of these sensitive ones under chilling were induced to increase obviously (Table 3). The correlation coefficient between the increases in GSSG, DHA and the decrease of Chl content were -0.701**, -0.656** respectively (Table 4). This indicated that the regeneration of reduced glutathione (GSH) and ascorbate was inhibited, resulting in accumulations of AOS and the reduction of Chl content (Fig.4) and the inhibition of photosynthetic activity (Fig.1 and Fig.2). The changes in japonica Taibei 309 and Wuyujing were small. And the changes in indica hybrid were lying between the above-mentioned types. Particularly, the ratio of AsA/DHA and GSH/GSSG (Fig.7) showed similar changes as those in Chl content (Fig.4). The correlation coefficient among Chl content and AsA/DHA, GSH/GSSG were 0.811**, 0.728** respectively (Table 4), significant at 0.01 probability levels. The levels of AsA/DHA and GSH/GSSG ratio in rice leaves may be the physiological indexes associated with the sensitivity to chilling in rice varieties.
16775405	Rice is one of the major staple cereal grains. Most of the important traits of crops are complex traits controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTL). Detection and genetic identification of QTLs can provide insights into molecular and biological mechanisms of development and physiology. Chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) have been proposed as a simple and powerful way to identify QTLs. The demand for rice grain quality becomes increasingly important. The primary components of rice grain quality include appearance, milling and physico-chemical, cooking and eating quality. Most of these traits are complex and controlled by QTLs, so genetic characterization of these traits is more difficult than that of traits each controlled by a singular gene such as Waxy, which controls glutinousness of rice grain. We constructed 133 chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) from backcross progenies (BC3F2) derived from a cross between Teqing (an O. sativa L. ssp. indica variety) as the recurrent parent and wild rice (O. rufipogon Griff.) as the donor parent. In this process, we carried out marker-assisted selection (MAS) by using 118 CAPS or SSR markers covering the whole rice genome (Figs.1, 2). Because phenotypic values of quality trait were significantly different between cultivar Teqing and wild rice, the CSSLs were used to identify QTLs for rice quality traits. Three appearance quality traits (head rice percentage, HRP; percentage of chalky rice grains, PCRG; transparency, TP) and five physico-chemical properties (gelatinization temperature, GT; gel consistency, GC; amylose content, AC; protein content, PC; fat content, FC) were scored using 133 CSSLs which substituted segments covering the whole genome of wild rice. A total of 15 QTLs for five of the eight traits mentioned above (HRP, PCRG, TP, PC and FC) were identified on nine chromosomes, and several QTLs affecting different quality traits were mapped in the same regions (Fig.3, Table 1).
16775631	A symptom of chilling injury is development of water deficit in shoots, resulting from an imbalance of water transport and transpiration. In this work, two rice varieties (Oryza sativa L. var. Wasetoitsu and Somewake) seedlings were chilled at 7 degrees C, followed by recovery at 28 degrees C. Based on the growth phenotype and electrolyte leakage tests, Somewake was shown to be a chilling-tolerant variety, and Wasetoitsu a chilling-sensitive one. The chilling stress reduced markedly the relative water content (RWC) of leaves, accumulative transpiration and osmotic root hydraulic conductivity (Lp) in both varieties. But when returned to 28 degrees C, the water relation balance of Somewake recovered better. The mRNA expression profile of all the 11 plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs), a subgroup of aquaporins, was subsequently determined by real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR with TaqMan-minor grove binder (MGB) probes derived from rice var. Nipponbare during chilling treatment and recovery. Most of the PIP genes was down-regulated at the low temperature, and recovered at the warm temperature. The relative expression of some PIPs in both Somewake and Wasetoitsu decreased in parallel during the chilling. However during the recovery, the relative expression of OsPIP1;1, OsPIP2;1, OsPIP2;7 in shoots and OsPIP1;1, OsPIP2;1 in roots were significantly higher in Somewake than Wasetoitsu. This supports the role of PIPs in re-establishing water balance after chilling conditions. We discuss the diversified roles played by members of the aquaporin PIP subfamily in plant chilling tolerance depending on aquaporin isoforms, plant tissue and the stage of chilling duration.
16775937	Madagascar presents a large heterogeneity in terms of climate and altitude, which explains the uneven spread of malaria throughout the island. The capital, Antananarivo, counts more than one million inhabitants, altitude between 1250 and 1470 m, in an area where the transmission is low but malaria may cause deadly epidemic outbreaks. Numerous malaria cases are reported, without biological confirmation, and reliable data about urban malaria transmission are lacking. The " Institut Pasteur de Madagascar" together with the Malagasy Ministry of Health performed in 2003 a study about malaria transmission in Antananarivo. A prevalence survey of malaria among fever syndromes, with data collected from 43 urban dispensaries, showed that confirmed malaria cases represented only 2% of the total fever cases (15 cases out of 779 fever syndromes). The vast majority was imported from costal areas (13 cases out of 15), where malaria is hyperendemic. However, a local urban transmission was found for two patients and five other subjects identified during a proximity survey. Vectors A. arabiensis and A. funestus were found inside the patient houses, located in close proximity of flooded rice fields. Genetic analysis of P. falciparum strains allowed to distinguish three genotypes, aggregated by house. The analysis of parasite genome polymorphism proves here its validity for epidemic surveys in areas where malaria is unstable, with no premunition in the local urban population.
1677594	Restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) were studied in fourteen accessions of CCDD genome allotetraploid wild rice species (Oryza latifolia, O. alta and O. grandiglumis). Fourteen nuclear RFLP markers previously mapped in AA genome-cultivated rice were used as probes. A phylogenetic tree, constructed by parsimony analysis based on RFLPs, grouped the accessions according to their geographic origin from Central or South America. Oryza alta, O. grandiglumis and one accession of O. latifolia grouped together as a subgroup, and our results suggested that the three taxa should be considered as populations of a single complex species. Duplicate loci, representing the two constituent genomes of the allotetraploid, were observed for most RFLP markers. By comparing RFLPs from the allotetraploids with those from a CC genome diploid wild species (O. officinalis), it was possible to detect RFLPs specific for both the CC and DD genomes of the allotetraploid. In inter-accession F2 populations, independent segregation of RFLP markers for CC and DD genomes was observed.
16777311	A probabilistic estimation of the exposure of the Brazilian population to the dithiocarbamate pesticides was performed using the Monte Carlo Risk Assessment program (MCRA 3.5). Residue data, as CS2, for 3821 samples were obtained from the Brazilian national monitoring program on pesticide residues and from the monitoring program conducted in the Distrito Federal on rice, beans and nine fruits and vegetables. Food consumption data were obtained from a Brazilian household budget survey conducted between 2002 and 2003. Processing factors for washing, peeling or cooking were applied to the residues found in the crops. Daily intakes at the highest percentiles for the general population reached a maximum of 2.0 microg CS2/kg body weight per day (upper band of the 95% confidence interval at P99.99). Tomato, rice, apple and lettuce were the commodities which contributed most to the intake. Based on the registered uses and the toxicological profile of dithiocarbamates, the risk from exposure was evaluated assuming that all residues came from the use of ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate (EBDC) or that a fraction of it came from the use of propineb. For this last scenario, a cumulative risk assessment was conducted. In the first scenario, the highest intake reached up to 11.9% EBDC ADI for the general population and up to 31.1% ADI for children. When 30% of the residues were considered as coming from propineb use, the values were 15.2% and 39.7% ADI, respectively.
16777534	Granulins are a family of evolutionarily ancient proteins that are involved in regulating cell growth and division in animals. In this report a full-length cDNA, SPCP3, was isolated from senescent leaves of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas). SPCP3 contains 1389 nucleotides (462 amino acids) in its open reading frame, and exhibits high amino acid sequence homologies (ca. 64-73.6%) with several plant granulin-containing cysteine proteases, including potato, tomato, soybean, kidney bean, pea, maize, rice, cabbage, and Arabidopsis. Gene structural analysis shows that SPCP3 encodes a putative precursor protein. Via cleavage of the N-terminal propeptide, it generates a protein with 324 amino acids (from the 139th to the 462nd amino acid residues), which contains two main domains: the conserved catalytic domain with the putative catalytic residues (the 163rd Cys, 299th His and 319th Asn) and the C-terminal granulin domain (from the 375th to the 462nd amino acid residues). Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and protein gel blot hybridization showed that SPCP3 gene expression was enhanced significantly in natural senescent leaves and in dark- and ethephon-induced senescent leaves, but was almost undetectable in mature green leaves, veins, and roots. Phylogenic analysis showed that SPCP3 displayed close association with a group of plant granulin-containing cysteine proteases which have been implied to be involved in programmed cell death. In conclusion, sweet potato SPCP3 is a functional, senescence-associated gene. Its mRNA and protein levels were significantly enhanced in natural and induced senescing leaves. The physiological role and/or function of SPCP3 associated with programmed cell death during leaf senescence were also discussed.
16778011	Leaf senescence is a developmentally programmed degeneration process, which is fine tuned by a complex regulatory network for plant fitness. However, molecular regulation of leaf senescence is poorly understood, especially in rice (Oryza sativa), an important staple crop for more than half of the world population. Here, we report a novel nuclear-localized CCCH-type zinc finger protein, Oryza sativa delay of the onset of senescence (OsDOS), involved in delaying leaf senescence in rice. The expression of OsDOS was down-regulated during natural leaf senescence, panicle development, and pollination, although its transcripts were accumulated in various organs. RNAi knockdown of OsDOS caused an accelerated age-dependent leaf senescence, whereas its overexpression produced a marked delay of leaf senescence, suggesting that it acts as a negative regulator for leaf senescence. A genome-wide expression analysis further confirmed its negative regulation for leaf senescence and revealed that, in particular, the jasmonate (JA) pathway was found to be hyperactive in the OsDOS RNAi transgenic lines but impaired in the OsDOS overexpressing transgenic lines, indicating that this pathway is likely involved in the OsDOS-mediated delaying of leaf senescence. Furthermore, methyl JA treatments of both seeds and detached leaves from the RNAi and the overexpressing transgenic lines showed hyper- and hyporesponses, respectively, consistent with the negative regulation of the JA pathway by OsDOS. Together, these results indicate that OsDOS is a novel nuclear protein that delays leaf senescence likely, at least in part, by integrating developmental cues to the JA pathway.
16781146	The aim of this work was to prepare the bio-crudes from agricultural wastes (i.e., rice straw, rice husk, sugarcane bagasse and coconut shell) by using induction-heating pyrolysis at specified conditions. The quantitative analysis of 21 priority pollutant polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in bio-crudes examined using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) revealed that the PAHs in bio-crudes were primarily dominant in the low molecular weight (LMW) PAHs, including naphthalene (1.10-2.45 mg/L) and acenaphthene (0.72-7.61 mg/L). However, by considering carcinogenic potency, the bio-crudes from rice husk and sugarcane bagasse contained higher contents of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) (0.52 and 0.92 mg/L, respectively) as compared to those from rice straw and coconut shell.
16781805	Selecting a phytoextraction plant with high Cd-accumulating ability based on the plant's compatibility with mechanized cultivation techniques may yield more immediately practical results than selection based on high tolerance to Cd. Rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. Nipponbare and Milyang 23), soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merr., cv. Enrei and Suzuyutaka), and maize (Zea mays L., cv. Gold Dent) were grown on one Andosol and two Fluvisols with low concentration of Cd contamination ranging from 0.83 to 4.29 mg Cd kg(-1), during 60 days in pots (550 mL) placed in a greenhouse. Shoot Cd uptake was as follows: Gold Dent<Enrei and Nipponbare<Suzuyutaka and Milyang 23. Several soil Cd fractions after Milyang 23 harvesting decreased most. Milyang 23 accumulated 10-15% of the total soil Cd in its shoot. The Milyang 23 rice is thus promising for phytoextraction of Cd from paddy soils with low contamination level.
16782330	A new technology of transforming ferulic acid, which was from waste residue of rice bran oil, into vanillin was developed by a combination of fungal strains Aspergillus niger CGMCC0774 and Pycnoporus cinnabarinus CGMCC1115. Various concentrations of ferulic acid were compared, and the highest yield reached 2.2 g l(-1) of vanillic acid by A. niger CGMCC0774 in a 25 l fermenter when concentration of ferulic acid was 4 g l(-1). The filtrate of A. niger CGMCC0774 culture was concentrated and vanillic acid in the filtrate was bio-converted into vanillin by P. cinnabarinus CGMCC1115. The yield of vanillin reached 2.8 g l(-1) when 5 g l(-1) of glucose and 25 g of HZ802 resin were supplemented in the bioconversion medium. The 13C isotope analysis indicated that delta13C(PDB) of vanillin prepared was much different from chemically synthesized vanillin.
16784536	The maize INDETERMINATE1 gene, ID1, is a key regulator of the transition to flowering and the founding member of a transcription factor gene family that encodes a protein with a distinct arrangement of zinc finger motifs. The zinc fingers and surrounding sequence make up the signature ID domain (IDD), which appears to be found in all higher plant genomes. The presence of zinc finger domains and previous biochemical studies showing that ID1 binds to DNA suggests that members of this gene family are involved in transcriptional regulation. Comparison of IDD genes identified in Arabidopsis and rice genomes, and all IDD genes discovered in maize EST and genomic databases, suggest that ID1 is a unique member of this gene family. High levels of sequence similarity amongst all IDD genes from maize, rice and Arabidopsis suggest that they are derived from a common ancestor. Several unique features of ID1 suggest that it is a divergent member of the maize IDD family. Although no clear ID1 ortholog was identified in the Arabidopsis genome, highly similar genes that encode proteins with identity extending beyond the ID domain were isolated from rice and sorghum. Phylogenetic comparisons show that these putative orthologs, along with maize ID1, form a group separate from other IDD genes. In contrast to ID1 mRNA, which is detected exclusively in immature leaves, several maize IDD genes showed a broad range of expression in various tissues. Further, Western analysis with an antibody that cross-reacts with ID1 protein and potential orthologs from rice and sorghum shows that all three proteins are detected in immature leaves only. Comparative genomic analysis shows that the IDD zinc finger family is highly conserved among both monocots and dicots. The leaf-specific ID1 expression pattern distinguishes it from other maize IDD genes examined. A similar leaf-specific localization pattern was observed for the putative ID1 protein orthologs from rice and sorghum. These similarities between ID1 and closely related genes in other grasses point to possible similarities in function.
16784809	This paper presents the findings of a study on solidification/stabilization (S/S) of lead-contaminated soil using ordinary Portland cement (OPC) and rice husk ash (RHA). The effects of varying lead concentrations (in the form of nitrates) in soil samples on the physical properties of their stabilized forms, namely unconfined compressive strength (UCS), setting times of early mixtures and changes in crystalline phases as well as chemical properties such as leachability of lead, pH and alkalinity of leachates are studied. Results have indicated that usage of OPC with RHA as an overall binder system for S/S of lead-contaminated soils is more favorable in reducing the leachability of lead from the treated samples than a binder system with standalone OPC. On the other hand, partial replacement of OPC with RHA in the binder system has reduced the UCS of solidified samples.
16785176	An antibody-based rapid, quantitative, and qualitative tube enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (tube-ELISA) was developed and used to determine carbaryl (1-naphthyl methylcarbamate) residues in agricultural products (apple, Chinese cabbage, rice, and barley). The tube-ELISA is a competitive immunoassay in which the antibody is coated in the polystyrene tube, with a dynamic range between 0.7 and 46.3 microg kg(-1). Carbaryl was extracted from each agricultural sample by hand-shaking with methanol and examined for application to on-site analysis. After the liquid extraction, the sample extracts diluted with buffer were analyzed by rapid tube-ELISA directly. The overall test time was around 15-30 min, including sample preparation and assay performance. The results obtained from tube-ELISA correlated well with high-performance liquid chromatography (R2 > 0.9). The study shows that tube-ELISA is useful as a quality control tool and can be used to quantitatively detect carbaryl as well.
16786244	A novel solid-state fermentation apparatus, namely an upright multi-tray conidiation chamber, was developed to facilitate the production of aerial conidia of fungal biocontrol agents, such as Beauveria bassiana. The chamber with 25 bottom-meshed metal trays had a capacity of > or =50 kg rice with each tray holding > or =2 kg. In repeated trials, a mean yield of 2.4 (1.8-2.7) x 10(12) conidia kg(-1) rice was harvested from the 7-day cultures of B. bassiana in a fully loaded chamber. The new apparatus has a high potential for bulk production of fungal conidia.
16786279	The ATP-dependent Lon protease is a highly conserved enzyme that is present in archeae, eubacteria, and eukaryotes, and plays an important role in intracellular protein degradation. We have isolated a Lon protease gene, OsLon1, from Oryza sativa. The cDNA contained a 2,655 bp ORF. Comparative analysis showed that OsLon1 shared significant similarity with the previously reported Lon proteases from maize, Arabidopsis, human, and bacteria. Tissue expression pattern analysis revealed that OsLon1 was highly expressed in young leaves, mature leaves, and leaf sheaths but only weakly in young roots, mature roots, and young panicles. The OsLon1 gene was successfully expressed in E. coli and the detected protein size, about 120 kDa, matched the expected molecular mass of the His-tagged OsLon1 protein.
16786297	The plant gaseous hormone ethylene regulates many aspects of plant growth, development and responses to the environment. ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) is a transcription factor involved in the ethylene signal transduction pathway in Arabidopsis. To gain a better understanding of the ethylene signal transduction pathway in rice, six EIN3-like genes (designated OsEIL1-6) were identified. OsEIL1, which showed highest similarity with EIN3, was isolated and functionally characterized. Ectopic expression of OsEIL1 in Arabidopsis can partially complement the ein3-1 mutant. The transgenic rice plants with overexpression of OsEIL1 exhibit short root, coiled primary root and slightly short shoot phenotype and elevated response to exogenous ethylene. OsEBP89, an ethylene responsive element binding protein (EREBP) and OsACO1, an ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid) oxidase gene were enhanced in the OsEIL1 overexpressing transgenic plants. These results indicate that OsEIL1 is involved in ethylene signal transduction pathway and acts as a positive regulator of ethylene response in rice.
16786444
16786487	Rice is not only an important agricultural resource but also a model plant for biological research. Our previous review highlighted different aspects of the construction of rice proteome database, cataloguing rice proteins of different tissues and organelle, differential proteomics using 2-DE and functional characterization of some of the proteins identified (Komatsu, S., Tanaka, N., Proteomics 2005, 5, 938-949). In this review, the powerfulness and weaknesses of proteomic technologies as a whole and limitations of the currently used techniques in rice proteomics are discussed. The information obtained from these techniques regarding proteins modification, protein-protein interaction and the development of new methods for differential proteomics will aid in deciphering more precisely the functions of known and/or unknown proteins in rice.
16786855	The risk of Staphylococcus aureus in ready-to-eat kimbab (rice rolled in laver) sold in Korea was evaluated by a mathematical modeling approach. Four nodes were constructed from preparation at retail to consumption. A predictive microbial growth model and survey data were combined with probabilistic modeling to simulate the level of S. aureus in a single kimbab at the time of consumption. We estimated the mean level of S. aureus to be 2.92 log CFU/g for a typical kimbab (150 to 200 g each) at the time of consumption. Our model also showed that 29.73% of the kimbabs had > or = 100,000 S. aureus CFU/g, which poses some risk of illness, since some level of enterotoxin would be expected from toxigenic strains. However, because of the lack of dose-response models for staphylococcal enterotoxin, the final level of S. aureus in the kimbabs could not be used to estimate how many people would become ill from eating them. Correlation sensitivity results showed that consumer eating patterns and initial contamination levels at retail stores were the most significant risk factors for illness and that temperature control under 10 degrees C was a critical control point in kimbab retail establishments to prevent the growth of S. aureus.
16786858	We conducted a survey of aflatoxin B1, B2, G1, and G2, ochratoxin A, and fumonisin B1, B2, and B3 contamination in various foods on the retail market in Japan in 2004 and 2005. The mycotoxins were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, or high-performance thin-layer chromatography. Aflatoxins were detected in 10 of 21 peanut butter samples; the highest concentration of aflatoxin B1 was 2.59 microg/kg. Aflatoxin contamination was not found in corn products, corn, peanuts, buckwheat flour, dried buckwheat noodles, rice, or sesame oil. Ochratoxin A was detected in oatmeal, wheat flour, rye, buckwheat flour, green coffee beans, roasted coffee beans, raisins, beer, and wine but not in rice or corn products. Ochratoxin A concentrations in contaminated samples were below 0.8 microg/kg. Fumonisins were detected in popcorn, frozen corn, corn flakes, and corn grits. The highest concentrations of fumonisins B1, B2, and B3 in these samples were 354.0, 94.0, and 64.0 microg/kg, respectively.
16786977	Schoolchildren are good agents of change and need to be educated and sensitized to specific issues of hunger and malnutrition through a question-and-answer process. Feeding Minds and Fighting Hunger (FMFH), a global project initiated by the Food and Agriculture Organization and partner organizations, attempts to help schoolchildren learn about these issues by introducing concepts in the prevention of hunger and malnutrition to teachers, and by facilitating transfer of knowledge to the children through a set of model lessons. To test the feasibility of the FMFH approach to improve the nutrition knowledge of rural schoolchildren in three rural schools in Medak District of the South Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. Participatory workshops for teachers were conducted to facilitate knowledge transfer to the children through interactive classroom teaching and other activities. The change in knowledge and thinking of children in the seventh and eighth grades was assessed by a ques- tionnaire administered before and after the intervention. The questionnaire also assessed, in part, the status of local food security based on the sources of different food items in the households. The responses to the questionnaire suggested that the children's knowledge of nutrients and their functions was not good initially but improved after the intervention. However, their understanding of the social factors responsible for hunger and malnutrition was fairly good prior to the intervention. Improvement in responses to the question of what should be done to combat malnutrition also occurred after intervention. The community had village-level food security for rice and maize but depended partially or fully on outside sources for pulses, fruits and vegetables, and animal products. The FMFH approach can be applied in rural schools where "the poorest of the poor" children can improve their understanding of balanced diets, better nutrition, the causes of malnutrition, and approaches to combat malnutrition.
16787017	Anthocyanin pigments from a wide variety of edible and ornamental black, blue, pink, purple, red, and white wheat, barley, corn, rice, and wild rice were identified and quantified to evaluate their potential as natural colorants or functional food ingredients. The total anthocyanin contents varied significantly and exhibited a range of 7-3276 microg/g. Some grains, such as red rice and black rice, contained a limited number of pigments, whereas others, such as blue, pink, purple, and red corns, had complex anthocyanin profiles. Of the 42 anthocyanin compounds observed, 9 were characterized by comparison of the spectroscopic and chromatographic properties with those of authentic standards. The remaining compounds were tentatively identified on the basis of spectroscopic properties and electrospray ionization mass spectra. The most abundant anthocyanins were cyanidin 3-glucoside in black and red rices and in blue, purple, and red corns, pelargonidin 3-glucoside in pink corn, and delphinidin 3-glucoside in blue wheat.
16787036	The physicochemical properties and ultrastructures of japonica vs indica rice varieties and waxy vs nonwaxy rice varieties were compared. The viscogram values of the indica varieties were significantly higher than those of the japonica varieties. The gelatinization temperatures, breakdown, and setback were significantly lower for waxy than for nonwaxy rice varieties. Japonica rice exhibited lower hardness but higher adhesiveness than indica rice. The air space between individual starch granules was larger for waxy than for nonwaxy rice. The starch granules were compact in japonica rice, while the compound starch granules of indica rice were much smaller than those of japonica rice and were scattered widely in the endosperm. The protein bodies in japonica rice were concentrated near the cell wall, whereas those in indica rice were scattered around amyloplasts. These results suggest that the ultrastructure of rice affects the texture of the cooked product.
16788564	A low-estrogenic diet for goldfish Carassius auatus was produced for an in vivo estrogen activity test, because commercial fish feed has estrogenic activity and may affect the results of estrogen assays. The newly produced diet (FD5) was formulated with defatted rice bran and casein, and did not contain any soybean meal or fish meal. Phytoestrogen contents (genistein, daidzein, equol, and coumestrol) of FD5 were measured by liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy/mass spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS) and compared with those of the commercial trout diet (TD) and carp diet (CD). The genistein, daidzein, and coumestrol contents of TD and CD were much higher (5-2000 times) than those of FD5, but equol was detected only in FD5. Estrogenic activity of the fish diets was estimated in vitro by the yeast estrogen-screen assay (YES assay). The estrogenic activity was detected in TD and CD, but not in FD5. The in vivo estrogenic activity of the diets was examined by determining the production of vitellogenin in male goldfish. When male goldfish were fed TD or CD, plasma vitellogenin levels increased, but fish that were fed FD5 maintained low vitellogenin levels. These results indicate that FD5 produced in the present study has a low estrogenic activity, and FD5 would be suitable for the in vivo estrogen activity test using goldfish.
16788708	To assess trends of food intake in Portugal. Analysis of three cross-sectional studies: 1987, 1995-1996 and 1998-1999. Representative samples of free-living individuals. 64 734 men and 71 282 women. Food intake was assessed by questionnaires inquiring the number of meals and which foodstuffs (fish, meat, milk, rice/pasta/potatoes, soup, vegetables and fruit) had been consumed the day before. Age-adjusted average number of meals decreased from 3.3+/-0.1 in 1987 to 2.9+/-0.1 in 1998-1999 in both genders (P<0.001). In men, the percentage of subjects consuming meat, milk and potatoes/rice/pasta increased from 73, 66 and 91% in 1987 to 83, 74 and 95% in 1998-1999, respectively. The percentage of subjects consuming soup and fish decreased from 70 and 56% in 1987 to 62 and 53% in 1998-1999, respectively. In women, the percentage of subjects consuming meat, milk, potatoes/rice/pasta and vegetable increased from 70, 66, 89 and 71% in 1987 to 78, 77, 93 and 83% in 1998-1999, respectively. The percentage of subjects consuming soup and fish decreased from 70 and 55% in 1987 to 64 and 53% in 1998-1999, respectively. These trends were more pronounced in the younger age, which also displayed a higher frequency of snacking. Multivariate analysis adjusting for age group, region and educational level showed that the consumption of meat, milk and vegetables increased and the consumption of soup, fish and fruit decreased in 1998-1999 relative to 1995-1996. Within a decade, the Portuguese dietary pattern has changed considerably, shifting from a traditional, south European to a more Westernized, protein-rich diet. The Unidade de Nutrio e Metabolismo of the Instituto de Medicina Molecular is partially funded by a grant from the FCT (Fundao para a Cincia e a Tecnologia) ref. RUN 437.
16789505	Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of morbidity in patients with end-stage renal failure. Arterial stiffness measured by pulse wave velocity (PWV) is an independent risk factor for morbidity in end stage renal failure patients. The aim of our study was to evaluate the arterial stiffness in patients with chronic renal failure. In 20 chronic renal failure patients treated by hemodialysis (HD) we assessed the PWV of the carotic artery as well as artery diameter and distensibility, systolic pressure (SBP), diastolic pressure (DBP), pulse pressure (PP), and basal biochemical parameters and compared them with the values determined in 20 healthy controls of comparable age. PWV and PP are significantly (p < 0.001, p < 0.05) higher and distensibility of the carotic artery was significantly lower (p < 0.001) compared to a control group SBP and DBP were < 140/90 mmHg in HD patients (high normotensive range) but were significantly (p < 0.05) higher than in a control group. In HD patients PP was correlated with arterial distensibility r = -0.600 (p < 0.005), and systolic artery rice r = -0.408 (p < 0.05). SBP was correlated with PP r = 0.689 (p < 0.0007) and with arterial distensibility r = -0.476 (p < 0.03), arterial diameter to systolic artery rice r = -0.463 (p < 0.03), systolic artery rice to arterial distensibility r = 0.885 (p < 0.00001), intima media to arterial distensibility r = 0.815 (p < 0.00001), intima media to arterial compliance r = 0.893 (p < 0.00001). Our results suggest that not only established hypertension but also high normotensive pressure could cause arterial stiffness absened in chronic renal failure patients.
16789777	Experimental data for the photoisomerization of trans-stilbene (S(1)) in thermal bath gases at pressures up to 20 bar obtained previously by Meyer, Schroeder, and Troe (J. Phys. Chem. A 1999, 103, 10528-10539) are modeled by using a full collisional-reaction master equation that includes non-RRKM (Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus) effects due to slow intramolecular vibrational energy redistribution (IVR). The slow IVR effects are modeled by incorporating the theoretical results obtained recently by Leitner et al. (J. Phys. Chem. A 2003, 107, 10706-10716), who used the local random matrix theory. The present results show that the experimental rate constants of Meyer et al. are described to within about a factor of 2 over much of the experimental pressure range. However, a number of assumptions and areas of disagreement will require further investigation. These include a discrepancy between the calculated and experimental thermal rate constants near zero pressure, a leveling off of the experimental rate constants that is not predicted by theory and which depends on the identity of the collider gas, the need to use rate constants for collision-induced IVR that are larger than the estimated total collision rate constants, and the choice of barrier-crossing frequency. Despite these unsettled issues, the theory of Leitner et al. shows great promise for accounting for possible non-RRKM effects in an important class of reactions.
16790341	In this study, the feasibility of preparing effective adsorbents from unmitigated agroforestry wastes was investigated. Three different kinds of carbon-like materials were produced by low temperature pyrolysis (LTC, <500 degrees C) of the raw materials rice husks, eucalyptus sawdust and peach stones. The carbon-like materials were characterized by instrumental methods (SEM,X-RDS,BET,MAS-RMN,FTIR), physico-chemical adsorption (iodine-, methylene blue- and phenazone-number; acetic acid adsorption isotherm; textile dyes- and carbohydrate adsorption), and heat value determination. The produced materials, which showed appreciable adsorption capacity, can be considered as precursors for the production of active coal or even be used directly as well.
16790464	Glycinebetaine (GB), a quaternary ammonium compound, is a very effective compatible solute. In higher plants, GB is synthesized from choline (Cho) via betaine aldehyde (BA). The first and second steps in the biosynthesis of GB are catalysed by choline monooxygenase (CMO) and by betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH), respectively. Rice (Oryza sativa), which has two genes for BADH, does not accumulate GB because it lacks a functional gene for CMO. Rice plants accumulate GB in the presence of exogenously applied BA, which leads to the development of a significant tolerance to salt, cold and heat stress. The goal in this study was to evaluate and to discuss the effects of endogenously accumulated GB in rice. Transgenic rice plants that overexpressed a gene for CMO from spinach (Spinacia oleracea) were produced by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. After Southern and western blotting analysis, GB in rice leaves was quantified by (1)H-NMR spectroscopy and the tolerance of GB-accumulating plants to abiotic stress was investigated. Transgenic plants that had a single copy of the transgene and expressed spinach CMO accumulated GB at the level of 0.29-0.43 micromol g(-1) d. wt and had enhanced tolerance to salt stress and temperature stress in the seedling stage. In the CMO-expressing rice plants, the localization of spinach CMO and of endogenous BADHs might be different and/or the catalytic activity of spinach CMO in rice plants might be lower than it is in spinach. These possibilities might explain the low levels of GB in the transgenic rice plants. It was concluded that CMO-expressing rice plants were not effective for accumulation of GB and improvement of productivity.
16790961	Various methods of evaluating the ability of mastication have been reported, most of which involve evaluating of the ability to comminute foods. In this study, a new method of evaluating the ability of mastication focusing on bolus formation was applied to denture wearers. One hundred and twenty-five subjects (71 males and 54 females) using removable dentures and receiving follow-up in the Niigata University Hospital were selected. This group was categorized by Eichner's classification, and investigated for the effect of prosthetic treatment by counting the number of chewing strokes until the first swallow of rice crackers. It was clarified that the number of chewing strokes until the first swallow counted by visual observation agreed well with the number of chewing strokes counted by electromyogram wave of masseter muscle, laryngeal motion, and swallowing sound, as a preparatory experiment. Using the method of counting chewing strokes by visual observation, the effect of prosthetic treatment was evaluated, and the results were as follows. 1)There is a significant difference in the number of chewing strokes without dentures between the Eichner A group, B group, and C group. 2)There was no significant difference in the number of chewing strokes with dentures among the three groups. 3)A significant decrease in the number of chewing strokes was proven by the use of removable dentures. 4)Both the improvement rate of chewing strokes (the ratio of the number of chewing strokes with dentures until the first swallow to that without dentures) and the difference of chewing strokes increased significantly in the order of Eichner A, B, and C. It was clarified that the effect of prosthetic treatment can be quantitatively evaluated by counting the chewing strokes of rice cracker. Moreover, it was suggested that the condition of prosthetic treatment can be evaluated by analyzing the improvement rate of chewing strokes.
16791687	We have reported previously that introgression by Zizania latifolia resulted in extensive DNA methylation changes in the recipient rice genome, as detected by a set of pre-selected DNA segments. In this study, using the methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism (MSAP) method, we globally assessed the extent and pattern of cytosine methylation alterations in three typical introgression lines relative to their rice parent at approximately 2,700 unbiased genomic loci each representing a recognition site cleaved by one or both of the isoschizomers, HpaII/MspI. Based on differential digestion by the isoschizomers, it is estimated that 15.9% of CCGG sites are either fully methylated at the internal Cs and/or hemi-methylated at the external Cs in the rice parental cultivar Matsumae. In comparison, a statistically significant increase in the overall level of both methylation types was detected in all three studied introgression lines (19.2, 18.6, 19.6%, respectively). Based on comparisons of MSAP profiles between the isoschizomers within the rice parent and between parent and the introgression lines, four major groups of MSAP banding patterns are recognized, which can be further divided into various subgroups as a result of inheritance of, or variation in, parental methylation patterns. The altered methylation patterns include hyper- and hypomethylation changes, as well as inter-conversion of hemi- to full-methylation, or vice versa, at the relevant CCGG site(s). Most alterations revealed by MSAP in low-copy loci can be validated by DNA gel blot analysis. The changed methylation patterns are uniform among randomly selected individuals for a given introgression line within or among selfed generations. Sequencing on 31 isolated fragments that showed different changing patterns in the introgression line(s) allowed their mapping onto variable regions on one or more of the 12 rice chromosomes. These segments include protein-coding genes, transposon/retrotransposons and sequences with no homology. Possible causes for the introgression-induced methylation changes and their implications for genome evolution and crop breeding are discussed.
16791691	Blast resistance is one of the most important traits in rice breeding, and application of molecular markers for blast resistance breeding is likely to allow the rapid screening for the trait during early growth stages, without the need for inoculation of pathogen and phenotyping. Allele-specific PCR markers and insertion/deletion (InDel) markers, which genotype single-nucleotide polymorphisms and InDel polymorphisms, respectively, are useful tools for marker-assisted selections. We developed sets of allele-specific PCR and InDel markers for nine rice blast resistance genes -- Piz, Piz-t, Pit, Pik, Pik-m, Pik-p, Pita, Pita-2, and Pib -- which are commonly used in Japanese blast resistance rice breeding programs. For each resistance gene, we used the segregation information from thousands of progeny in several crosses or published gene locations to generate a marker that cosegregated with the gene and markers that closely flanked the gene on either side. The developed cosegregating markers uniquely discriminated among each of the lines with the individual resistance genes (except for Pita and Pita-2). Therefore, these markers will likely facilitate the development of multiline cultivars carrying one or a combination of these nine blast resistance genes. In addition, the systems we developed may be valuable tools in the quality control of seed production from blast-resistant multiline cultivars.
16791702	Near-isogenic lines (NILs) are ideal materials for precise estimation of quantitative trait loci (QTL) effects and map-based gene isolation. With the completion of the rice genome sequence, QTL isolation based on NILs is becoming a routine. In this study, a trait-performance derived NIL strategy was adopted to develop NILs. Two plants were identified within one inbred line of recombinant inbred lines (RILs, F(7) generation), exhibiting a significant difference in panicle size. By marker screening of the whole genome the genetic background of the two plants was estimated to be 98.7% identical. These two plants were selected as parents to produce a near-isogenic F(2) (NIL-F(2)) population, consisting of 125 individuals, in which spikelets per panicle (SPP), grains per panicle (GPP), heading date (HD) and plant height (PH) were recorded. These four traits expressed discontinuous or bimodal distribution in the NIL-F(2) population and followed the expected segregation ratios for a single Mendelian factor by progeny tests. A partial dominant QTL for the four traits was mapped to the same interval flanked by RM310 and RM126 on chromosome 8. The QTL region explained 83.0, 80.2, 94.9 and 93.8% of trait variation of SPP, GPP, HD and PH in the progenies, respectively. Progeny tests also confirmed co-segregation of QTL for the four traits, tall plants consistently flowering late and carrying large panicles. Different NILs development strategies are discussed.
16792066	The Monascus product known as red mold rice (RMR) has been found to contain the cholesterol-lowering agent monacolin K (MK), including the lactone form (MKL) and the acid form (MKA) and mycotoxin citrinin (CT). In current studies, CT and MK are usually detected by different analysis methods, which have a high level of error, and are inconvenient, expensive, and time-consuming. The goal of this study is to establish a rapid synchronous analysis method for the detection of CT, MKL, and MKA levels in RMR. In this study, CT, MKL, and MKA are extracted by the same extraction method and are then separated in a reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) C18 column. The elution from the C18 column is then passed through an ultraviolet detector and introduced directly into the fluorescence detector. The results show that higher recovery rates of CT, MKL, and MLK are yielded from RMR powder by extracting with 95% ethanol (10 mL) at 60 degrees C for 30 min. Regarding the optimal conditions of HPLC, the peaks of CT, MKL, and MKA can be clearly separated from any noise peaks by isocratic elution with optimum mobile phase, acetonitrile-water-trifluoroacetate (55 + 45 + 0.05, v/v).
16792072	An interlaboratory validation study funded by the European Commission, Directorate General for Health and Consumer Protection (DG SANCO), was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of a liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) method for the determination of semicarbazide (SEM) in different types of baby food at a possible future European regulatory limit (10 ng/g). The test portion of the sample was extracted with hydrochloric acid, and the analyte was derivatized with 2-nitrobenzaldehyde, with 1,2-[15N2, 13C] SEM as an internal standard. The extract was neutralized and then purified on a solid-phase extraction cartridge. The SEM was determined by reversed-phase LC with detection by MS/MS. Apple puree, rice pudding, and meat/vegetable meal baby food materials, spiked with SEM at levels of about 3, 10, and 30 ng/g, respectively, were sent to 20 laboratories in 12 different European countries, which submitted results from 17 participants. Recoveries ranged from 88.8 to 106.1%. Based on results for spiked samples (blind pairs at 3 levels), the relative standard deviations for repeatability (RSDr) ranged from 4.2 to 6.9% and the relative standard deviations for reproducibility (RSDR) ranged from 16.6 to 24.3%. The method showed acceptable within- and between-laboratory precision for all 3 matrixes, as evidenced by HorRat values, at the target levels for the determination of SEM.
16792347	The arc process remains the easiest and cheapest technique to obtain significant quantities of single wall carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) with excellent structural properties. These nanotubes are quite straight and present few topological defects. However, the major inconvenience of this process remains the difficult in situ control of the final material's purity and physical properties. The first NASA/Rice workshop on growth mechanisms was devoted to addressing some specific questions on how and where the nanotubes are formed in several processes including the arc. Further advancement requires a detailed understanding of the growth mechanisms of fullerene, nanotubes and soot and their connection with process parameters. This approach is not highly developed today because of the coupling made by non-equilibrium plasma with the nonlinear chemical system makes, in which rate coefficients and reactions are not well known and this makes modeling difficult. This article is an attempt to analyze the effect of the individual arc parameters yielding guidelines for building a mechanistic understanding of carbon based nanomaterial growth in the arc discharge.
16792693	Using the rice PEX14 cDNA as a bait in a yeast two-hybrid assay, two splice variants of the type I peroxisomal targeting signal (PTS1) receptor, OsPex5pL and OsPex5pS, were cloned from a pathogen-treated rice leaf cDNA library. The proteins were produced from a single gene by alternative splicing, which generated a full-length variant, OsPEX5L, and a variant that lacked exon 7, OsPEX5S. OsPex5pL contained 11 copies of the pentapeptide motif WXXXF/Y in its N-terminus, and seven tetratricopeptide repeats in its C-terminus. Expression of OsPEX5L and OsPEX5S predominantly occurred in leaf tissues, and was induced by various stresses, such as exposure to the pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, and treatment with fungal elicitor, methyl viologen, NaCl or hydrogen peroxide. The Arabidopsis T-DNA insertional pex5 mutant, Atpex5, which does not germinate in the absence of sucrose and was resistant to indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), was perfectly rescued by over-expression of OsPex5pL, but not by OsPex5pS. Using transient expression of OsPex5pL and OsPex5pS in the Atpex5 mutant, we show that OsPex5pL translocates both PTS1- and PTS2-containing proteins into the peroxisome by interacting with OsPex7p, whereas OsPex5pS is involved only in PTS1-dependent import in Arabidopsis.
16792694	GAMYB is a component of gibberellin (GA) signaling in cereal aleurone cells, and has an important role in flower development. However, it is unclear how GAMYB function is regulated. We examined the involvement of a microRNA, miR159, in the regulation of GAMYB expression in cereal aleurone cells and flower development. In aleurone cells, no miR159 expression was observed with or without GA treatment, suggesting that miR159 is not involved in the regulation of GAMYB and GAMYB-like genes in this tissue. miR159 was expressed in tissues other than aleurone, and miR159 over-expressors showed similar but more severe phenotypes than the gamyb mutant. GAMYB and GAMYB-like genes are co-expressed with miR159 in anthers, and the mRNA levels for GAMYB and GAMYB-like genes are negatively correlated with miR159 levels during anther development. Thus, OsGAMYB and OsGAMYB-like genes are regulated by miR159 in flowers. A microarray analysis revealed that OsGAMYB and its upstream regulator SLR1 are involved in the regulation of almost all GA-mediated gene expression in rice aleurone cells. Moreover, different sets of genes are regulated by GAMYB in aleurone cells and anthers. GAMYB binds directly to promoter regions of its target genes in anthers as well as aleurone cells. Based on these observations, we suggest that the regulation of GAMYB expression and GAMYB function are different in aleurone cells and flowers in rice.
16794314	Although it has been found that plant endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase shows strong activity towards denatured glycoproteins and glycopeptides with high-mannose type N-glycans and free high-mannose type N-glycans bearing the chitobiosyl unit, the endogenous substrates for plant endoglycosidase have not yet been identified. Recently we purified and characterized an endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase from rice culture cells and identified the gene encoded. Furthermore, we found structural features of free N-glycans in the cells, indicating that high-mannose type species (Man(9-5)GlcNAc(1)) occur at concentration of several micromolar (microM). Hence, in this study we analyzed glycoform of N-glycans linked to glycoproteins expressed in rice culture cells to see whether endogenous glycoproteinous substrate occurs in reasonable amounts. Structural analysis revealed that more than 95% of total N-glycans linked to glycoproteins in the rice cells had the plant complex type structure, including Lewis a epitope-harboring type, although high-mannose type structures account for less than 5% of total N-glycans.
16794341	When fresh rice leaves producing yeast Schwanniomyces occidentalis phytase were grounded and mixed with the whole extract of seed-based feed for pigs, the release of orthophosphate increased significantly. More specifically, phytate, a major source of phosphorus in the seeds, was hydrolyzed by heterologous phytase. Moreover, when transgenic rice plants were ensiled for up to 12 weeks, no decrease in the phytase activity of the heterologous enzyme was observed. This result strongly suggests that transgenic rice plants producing yeast phytase can be stored as silage without any loss of enzyme activity until usage as a feed additive.
16797931	A novel hydrocarbonoclastic bacterium was isolated from rice rhizospheric soil using an enrichment culture technique. Detailed taxonomic studies identified the organism, designated strain PUP6, as a member of the genus Pseudomonas. The bacterium grew in minimal medium amended with n-alkane members of hydrocarbons, n-dodecane (C12H26), n-hexadecane (C16H34), n-octadecane (C18H38), n-octacosane (C28H58); and petroleum fractions such as crude oil and lubricating oil when provided as sole carbon and energy source. Degradation of these n-alkane hydrocarbons and oils in minimal salts medium by strain PUP6 was estimated using gas chromatography with a flame ionization detector. In addition to its hydrocarbonoclastic properties, this bacterium exhibits a broad spectrum of fungal antibiosis against various phytopathogenic fungi. An antifungal metabolite produced by strain PUP6 was isolated, characterized and identified as phenazine-1-carboxamide on the basis of nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectroscopic analyses. Strain PUP6 also produced plant-growth-promoting siderophores, indoleacetic acid (IAA), phosphate solubilizing enzymes, and fungal cell wall degrading enzymes such as protease and chitinase. This study can be considered as the first report on n-alkane hydrocarbon and oil degradation by a rhizosphere soil bacterium that exhibits biofertilizing and biocontrol traits. Due to its innate multiple functional traits beyond its role in degradation of hydrocarbons, strain PUP6 may be used as plant-growth-promoting rhizobacterium and biocontrol agent against phytopathogenic fungi.
16797977	The mechanisms and kinetics of NH(4)OH-KOH mixture pulping rice straw were studied. When aqueous ammonia was mixed with a small amount of caustic potash (ratio of 1:5), three distinct delignification phases were observed in the pulping process: a bulk delignification phase from the beginning of the cooking period to 100 degrees C, a supplementary delignification phase from 100 degrees C to 155 degrees C lasting a further 45 min, and a residual delignification phase until the end of the cooking period. There were two silica removal phases; the first phase was from the beginning of the cooking period to 100 degrees C and the second phase was from 100 degrees C to the end of the cooking period. The rate of delignification reaction was first order with respect to residual lignin and 0.3 order with respect to [OH(-)]. The silica removal was pseudo-first-order with respect to residual silica and 0.6 order with respect to [OH(-)]. The activation energies of the delignification and removal of silica reactions were 35.6 and 30.9 kJ/mol, respectively.
16798873	Many bacterial diseases of plants depend on the interaction of type III effector genes of the pathogen and disease-susceptibility genes of the host. The host susceptibility genes are largely unknown. Here, we show that expression of the rice gene Os8N3, a member of the MtN3 gene family from plants and animals, is elevated upon infection by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae strain PXO99(A) and depends on the type III effector gene pthXo1. Os8N3 resides near xa13, and PXO99(A) failed to induce Os8N3 in rice lines with xa13. Silencing of Os8N3 by inhibitory RNA produced plants that were resistant to infection by strain PXO99(A) yet remained susceptible to other strains of the pathogen. The effector gene avrXa7 from strain PXO86 enabled PXO99(A) compatibility on either xa13- or Os8N3-silenced plants. The findings indicate that Os8N3 is a host susceptibility gene for bacterial blight targeted by the type III effector PthXo1. The results support the hypothesis that X. oryzae pv. oryzae commandeers the regulation of otherwise developmentally regulated host genes to induce a state of disease susceptibility. Furthermore, the results support a model in which the pathogen induces disease susceptibility in a gene-for-gene manner.
16799766	To establish a constitutive, high-efficiency expression and secretion system for Bacillus pumilus, the function of a promoter and the abilities of three signal peptides in B. pumilus DX01 were tested. F1, cloned from the rice epiphyte B. pumilus strain DX01, had strong transcription activity and was a vegetative-phase constitutive promoter. The signal sequences of Bacillus subtilis levansucrase (sacB) and subtilisin, as well as B. pumilus DX01 RNase signal sequence could drive the secretion of E. coli beta-lactamase from B. pumilus DX01 efficiently, among which the signal sequence of B. subtilis sacB was the most effective. Likewise, they could also direct the secretion of green fluorescence protein (GFP) from DX01.
16800309	A new species, Pythiogeton zizaniae, was isolated from diseased water bamboo (Zizania latifolia) in central Taiwan. The organism formed a colony with scanty mycelia and mycelial aggregates on rye-water bamboo medium. Special treatments were required for production of sporangia which were terminal, noncaducous and mostly ovoid. Chlamydospores were absent. The fungus was homothallic. Oogonia produced on V-8 water bamboo medium in water were mostly globose to subglobose and each was attached with a club-shaped, monoclinous antheridium by the base of the oogonium stalk. Oospores were plerotic and globose to subglobose. Py. zizaniae caused death of water bamboo suckers but did not infect seedlings of corn, rice, wheat, sorghum, cucumber, tomato, soybean or water spinach. It also did not affect cucumber and tomato fruit, carrot roots or potato tubers.
16800383	OsGSTL1 gene was isolated from the rice genomic library. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that the expression of the OsGSTL1 in rice was not induced by chlorsulfuron, ethylene, abscisic acid, salicylic acid, and methyl jasmonate. In order to investigate the cis-elements of OsGSTL1 promoter, the promoter regions with different lengths were fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. All constructs were transformed into onion epidermal cells or A. thaliana plants to detect the expression patterns. In onion epidermal cells, the 160 bp fragment and longer ones were functional for directing GUS expression. In transgenic A. thaliana, the 2,155 bp upstream region of OsGSTL1 gene directed the GUS expression only in cotyledon after germination, but not in the root of young seedlings. In the later seedling, the 2,155 bp upstream region of OsGSTL1 gene directed GUS expression in roots, stems, and leaves. However, the GUS gene directed by a 1,224 bp upstream fragment is expressed in all the checked tissues. These results suggest that the spatiotemporal expression response elements of OsGSTL1 existed in the 5'-upstream region between -2,155 and -1,224 bp.
16800384	Abscisic acid (ABA) is one of the important plant hormones, which plays a critical role in seed development and adaptation to abiotic stresses. The sensitivity of rice (Oryza sativa L.) to exogenous ABA at seed germination and seedling stages was investigated in the recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from a cross between irrigated rice Zhenshan 97 and upland rice IRAT109, using relative germination vigor (RGV), relative germination rate (RGR) and leaf rolling scores of spraying (LRS) or culturing (LRC) with ABA as sensitivity indexes. The phenotypic correlation analysis revealed that only RGV at germination stage was positively correlated to ABA sensitivity at seedling stage. QTL detection using composite interval mapping (CIM) and mixed linear model was conducted to dissect the genetic basis of ABA sensitivity, and the single-locus QTLs detected by both methods are in good agreement with each other. Five single QTLs and six pairs of epistatic QTLs were detected for ABA sensitivity at germination stage. Eight single QTLs and five pairs of epistatic QTLs were detected for ABA sensitivity at seedling stage. Two QTLs were common between LRS and LRC; and one common QTL was detected for RGV, LRS and LRC simultaneously. These results indicated that both single and epistatic loci were involved in the ABA sensitivity in rice, and the genetic basis of ABA sensitivity at seed germination and seedling stage was largely different.
16800385	Four flowering related traits, spikelet number per panicle (SNP), percentage of single exserted stigma (PSES), dual exserted stigma (PDES) and total exserted stigma (PES) of a RI population with 185 lines under water stress and non-stress conditions for 2 years, were investigated in a drought tolerance screening facility. ANOVA results showed high significance between years, lines, and water stress treatments, together with interactions among them in pairs. Highest phenotypic correlation was found between PSES and PES (r = 0.9752***), followed by PDES and PES (r = 0.7150***), and PSES and PDES (r = 0.5424***). Based on a linkage map of 203 SSR markers, six main effect QTLs were detected for SNP and three or four main effect QTLs were associated with PSES, PDES and PES under stress or non-stress conditions. There were one to nine pairs of epistatic QTLs influencing SNP and stigma exsertion. The contribution rates of additive and epistatic effects seemed to be in a low magnitude for most cases (0.76%-9.92%) while a few QTLs or QTL pairs explained more than 10% of total variance. Some main effect QTL and epistasis were commonly detected among PSES, PDES and PES, explaining the high positive correlation between them. Few QTLs were detected under both water stress and non-stress condition, implying that drought had severe impact on the genetic behaviors of both spikelet number and stigma exsertion.
16800386	Common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) is the ancestor of cultivated rice (O. sativa L.), which has a greater genetic diversity and important traits that remain to be employed in cultivated rice. In this study, a set of introgression lines (BC4F5 and/or BC4F6) carrying various introgressed segments from common wild rice, collected from Dongxiang county, Jiangxi Province, China, in the background of an Indica (O. sativa L. ssp. indica) cultivar, Guichao 2, was used. A total of 12 drought-related quantitative trait loci (QTL) were identified by investigating drought tolerance of introgression lines under 30% PEG treatment at the young seedlings stage. Of these QTLs, the alleles of 4 QTLs on chromosome 2, 6 and 12 from Dongxiang common wild rice were responsible for increased drought tolerance of the introgression lines. In particular, a QTL qSDT12-2, near RM17 on chromosome 12, was consistently detected in different replications, and expressed stably under PEG stress throughout the study. It was also found that the QTLs located on different chromosomes might express at different stages.
16800387	Reciprocal crosses between red and achromatic rice revealed that the seed color of F1 was determined by its female parent. According to the seed color and plant segregation ratio of F1, F2, and F3 generations, the red phenotype of red double-haploid seed was determined by a dominant, monogene with maternal effect. Histological study showed that the red pigments accumulated in the pericarp layer only. The assay of developmental timing of pigment accumulation showed that the red color accumulated from desiccation stage to perfectly maturation stage of the seeds.
16800957	Human ITP clinical trials have been performed based on observations of clinical uses of drugs, other than on mechanism studies in preclinical models, many studies were stopped because of unexpected complications. So there was need to develop ideal animal model of ITP to improve the understanding of the pathophysiology and the mechanisms of action of therapeutics. In this review, the history of animal models of ITP was retrospected, two modeling methods inducing passive and active models, especially transgenic rice model which can more accurately represent human disease pathophysiology, and their application in study of ITP were summarized. An animal model for human immune thrombocytopenia allows detailed studies of the mechanism, kinetics, and therapy of human immune thrombocytopenia.
1680151	Field studies were conducted to determine the responses of mosquitoes associated with irrigated riceland in Arkansas to 1-octen-3-ol (octenol), carbon dioxide (CO2) and combinations of both. Octenol was released at 4.1 (wick in) and 41.1 (wick out) mg/h and CO2 at 200, 500 and 1,000 ml/min. Octenol alone did not result in a significant (P greater than 0.05) increased response for any species relative to unbaited traps. An increase in CO2 release rate generally resulted in an increase in collection size. All octenol + CO2 combinations increased the collections of Coquillettidia perturbans, Culex salinarius and Psorophora columbiae relative to equivalent CO2 release rates alone. Mixed responses for these same treatment combinations were obtained for Anopheles crucians, An. quadrimaculatus and Cx. erraticus.
16802688	We constructed an expression vector for rice dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR) (EC 1.8.5.4) with a polyhistidine tag at the amino terminus and introduced the vector into several strains of Escherichia coli. On conventional induction treatment with isopropylthiol-beta-D-galactoside, E. coli harboring rice DHAR cDNA produced doublet polypeptides of about 27 kDa. Induction duration or growth temperature did not affect the ratio of these polypeptides. Only the larger polypeptide, corresponding to full-length recombinant DHAR, was produced in E. coli supplemented with tRNAs for several minor codons. Most of the enzymatic characteristics of the recombinant DHAR were similar to those of the native one, although the recombinant protein showed increased heat susceptibility. Using recombinant DHAR, we developed a method for simple and precise determination of dehydroascorbate concentrations in tissue extracts by spectrophotometry, and we successfully applied the method to several fruit juices and vegetables.
16804052	The N-terminal amino-acid sequence of a major rice phloem-sap protein, named RPP10, was determined. RPP10 is encoded by a single gene in the rice genome. Its complete amino-acid sequence, predicted from the corresponding rice full-length cDNA, showed high similarity to plant acyl-CoA-binding proteins (ACBPs). Western blot analysis using anti-ACBP antiserum revealed that putative ACBP is abundant in the phloem sap of rice plants, and is also present in sieve-tube exudates of winter squash (Cucurbita maxima), oilseed rape (Brassica napus), and coconut palm (Cocos nucifera). These findings give rise to the idea that ACBP may involve lipid metabolism and regulation in the phloem.
16804056	Membrane proteins are involved in many different functions depending on their location in the cell. Characterization of the membrane proteome can bring new insights to the function of different plant membrane systems and the subcellular compartments where the proteins are found. Plant membrane proteomics can also provide valuable information about plant-specific biological processes. Despite recent advances in the separation and techniques for the analysis of plant membrane proteins, characterization of these proteins, especially the hydrophobic ones, is still challenging. In this review, plant membrane proteomics data, compiled from the literature on Arabidopsis thaliana, are described. In addition, initial attempts towards determining the physiological significance of some proteins identified from membrane proteomics in rice are also described.
1680490	Three members have been isolated of an additional glutelin gene subfamily, named subfamily B, consisting of about five members per haploid rice genome. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis showed major differences between Japonica and Indica lines, indicating the divergence of the subfamily since the split between the two varieties. While corresponding exons of the subfamily B showed 80 to 88% nucleotide sequence homology, those exons were only 60-65% homologous to those of the glutelin A subfamily, distinguishing them from the subfamily A. Intron position and derived polypeptide structure, in addition to the nucleotide sequence, confirm the subfamily B members as glutelins. Analysis of RNA from seeds of different stages of development showed that the subfamily B members were expressed at the same time as those of subfamily A, demonstrating coordinated regulation of the two subfamilies.
16805731	Cryptochromes (CRY) are blue-light photoreceptors that mediate various light responses, such as inhibition of hypocotyl elongation, enhancement of cotyledon expansion, anthocyanin accumulation and stomatal opening in Arabidopsis. The signaling mechanism of Arabidopsis CRY is mediated through direct interaction with COP1, a negative regulator of photomorphogenesis. CRY has now been characterized in tomato, pea, moss and fern, but its function in monocots is largely unknown. Here we report the function and basic signaling mechanism of rice cryptochrome 1 (OsCRY1). Overexpresion of OsCRY1b resulted in a blue light-dependent short hypcotyl phenotype in Arabidopsis, and a short coleoptile, leaf sheath and leaf blade phenotype in rice (Oryza sativa). On fusion with beta-glucuronidase (GUS), the C-terminal domain of either OsCRY1a (OsCCT1a) or OsCRY1b (OsCCT1b) mediated a constitutive photomorphogenic (COP) phenotype in both Arabidopsis and rice, whereas OsCCT1b mutants corresponding to missense mutations in previously described Arabidopsis cry1 alleles failed to confer a COP phenotype. Yeast two-hybrid and subcellular co-localization studies demonstrated that OsCRY1b interacted physically with rice COP1 (OsCOP1). From these results, we conclude that OsCRY1 is implicated in blue-light inhibition of coleoptile and leaf elongation during early seedling development in rice, and that the signaling mechanism of OsCRY1 involves direct interaction with OsCOP1.
16805737	A binary GAL4-VP16-UAS transactivation system has been established in rice (Oryza sativa L.) in this study for the discovery of gene functions. This binary system consists of two types of transgenic lines, pattern lines and target lines. The pattern lines were produced by transformation of Zhonghua 11, a japonica cultivar, with a construct consisting of the transactivator gene GAL4-VP16 controlled by a minimal promoter and the GUSplus reporter controlled by the upstream activation sequence (UAS; cis-element to GAL4). Target lines were generated by transformation of Zhonghua 11 with constructs carrying the EGFP reporter and target genes of interest, both controlled by the UAS but in opposite directions. Hybrid plants were obtained by crossing target lines of 10 putative transcription factor genes from rice with six pattern lines showing expression in anther, stigma, palea, lemma and leaves. The EGFP and target genes perfectly co-expressed in hybrid plants with the same expression patterns as in the pattern lines. Various phenotypic changes, such as delayed flowering, multiple pistils, dwarfism, narrow and droopy leaves, reduced tillers, growth retardation and sterility, were induced as a result of the expression of the target genes. It is concluded that this transactivation system can provide a useful tool in rice to unveil latent functions of unknown or known genes.
16806195	We have previously demonstrated that introgression of PcINO1 gene from Porteresia coarctata (Roxb.) Tateoka, coding for a novel salt-tolerant L-myo-inositol 1-phosphate synthase (MIPS) protein, confers salt tolerance to transgenic tobacco plants (Majee, M., Maitra, S., Dastidar, K.G., Pattnaik, S., Chatterjee, A., Hait, N.C., Das, K.P. and Majumder, A.L. (2004) A novel salt-tolerant L-myo-inositol-1-phosphate synthase from Porteresia coarctata (Roxb.) Tateoka, a halophytic wild rice: molecular cloning, bacterial overexpression, characterization, and functional introgression into tobacco-conferring salt-tolerance phenotype. J. Biol. Chem. 279, 28539-28552). In this communication we have shown that functional introgression of the PcINO1 gene confers salt-tolerance to evolutionary diverse organisms from prokaryotes to eukaryotes including crop plants albeit to a variable extent. A direct correlation between unabated increased synthesis of inositol under salinity stress by the PcINO1 gene product and salt tolerance has been demonstrated for all the systems pointing towards the universality of the application across evolutionary divergent taxa.
16806322	We have recently adapted a reinstatement model, commonly used to study relapse to drugs of abuse, to study the role of stress and anxiety in relapse to palatable food seeking [Ghitza UE, Gray SM, Epstein DH, Rice KC, Shaham Y. The anxiogenic drug yohimbine reinstates palatable food seeking in a rat relapse model: a role of CRF(1) receptors. Neuropsychopharmacology [in press]]. We found that the anxiogenic drug yohimbine, as well as pellet-priming, reinstate food seeking in food restricted rats previously trained to lever press for palatable food pellets (25% fat, 48% carbohydrate). Here, we studied the generality of the effect of yohimbine and pellet priming on reinstatement of food seeking by using three distinct pellet types: non-sucrose carbohydrate (NSC) (5.5% fat, 60% carbohydrate, 4.5% fiber), fiber (0% fat, 0% carbohydrate, 91% fiber) and sucrose (0% fat, 91% carbohydrate, 4% fiber). Rats were placed on a restricted diet (75-80% of daily standard food) and for 9-12 intermittent training days (9 h/day, every other day) lever-pressed for the food pellets under a fixed ratio-1 (20-s timeout) reinforcement schedule. Subsequently, the rats were given 9-10 daily extinction sessions during which lever-presses were not reinforced, and were then injected with yohimbine (0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0 mg/kg, i.p.) or given a single food pellet to induce reinstatement of food seeking. Yohimbine reinstated food seeking previously reinforced by NSC and sucrose pellets, but had a minimal effect on food seeking in rats previously trained to lever press for fiber pellets. Pellet priming produced a greater degree of reinstatement of lever pressing in rats previously trained on NSC pellets than in rats trained on fiber or sucrose pellets. Results suggest that the magnitude of the effect of yohimbine and pellet priming on reinstatement of food seeking depends in part on the composition of the food pellets used during training.
16806470	The effect of lead (Pb) treatment on the soil enzymatic activities, soil microbial biomass, rice physiological indices and rice biomass were studied in a greenhouse pot experiment. Six levels of Pb viz. 0(CK), 100, 300, 500, 700, 900 mg/kg soil were applied in two types of paddy soils. The results showed that Pb treatment had a stimulating effect on soil enzymatic activities and microbial biomass carbon (Cmic) at low concentration and an inhibitory influence at higher concentration. The degree of influence on enzymatic activities and Cmic by Pb was related to the clay and organic matter contents of the soils. When the Pb treatment was raised to the level of 500 mg/kg, ecological risk appeared both to soil microorganisms and plants. The results also revealed a consistent trend of increased chlorophyll contents and rice biomass initially, maximum at a certain Pb treatment, and then decreased gradually with the increase in Pb concentration. Pb was effective in inducing proline accumulation and its toxicity causes oxidative stress in rice plants. Therefore, it was concluded that soil enzymatic activities, Cmic and rice physiological indices, could be sensitive indicators to reflect environmental stress in soil-lead-rice system.
16806608	Radium-226 in phosphogypsum produced in a phosphate industry, SICNG operating at Thessaloniki, Northern Greece since May 1966, varied from 261 to 688 Bq kg(-1) (mean value 508 Bq kg(-1)). This radionuclide in soil tilled with phosphogypsum used for agricultural purposes varied from 50 to 479 Bq kg(-1) (average 205 Bq kg(-1)), while in the regular soil of cultivated fields it varied from 37 to 54 Bq kg(-1) (average 48 Bq kg(-1)). Radium-226 in rice originated from cultivated fields tilled with phosphogypsum or not varied from 0.36 to 1.98 Bq kg(-1) (average 1.53 Bq kg(-1)) with the higher values observed in samples originated from cultivated fields tilled with phosphogypsum. Radium-226 transfer factors, TF, from soil tilled with phosphogypsum to plants for the case of rice varied from 6.5 x 10(-3) to 2.0 x 10(-2) (geometric mean: 1.1 x 10(-2)). A mean (226)Ra content in rice 1.53 Bq kg(-1) results in a daily intake of (226)Ra by humans in Greece 0.0084 Bq day(-1) leading to an annual effective dose for adults 0.86 microSv y(-1) which is much less in contributing to the average exposure to natural radiation sources (2.4 mSv y(-1)) and particularly to the part due to ingestion (0.29 mSv y(-1)). It is necessary to continuously control (monitoring) (226)Ra in phosphogypsum before any use for agricultural purposes.
16806959	Rice, a first cereal crop whose draft genome sequence from two subspecies (japonica-type cv. Nipponbare and indica-type 93-11) was available in 2002, along with its almost complete genome sequence in 2005, has drawn the attention of researchers worldwide because of its immense impact on human existence. One of the most critical research areas in rice is to discern the self-defense mechanism(s), an innate property of all living organisms. The last few decades have seen scattered research into rice responses to diverse environmental stimuli and stress factors. Our understanding on rice self-defense mechanism has increased considerably with accelerated research during recent years mainly due to identification and characterization of several defense/stress-related components, genes, proteins and secondary metabolites. As these identified components have been used to study the defense/stress pathways, their compilation in this review will undoubtedly help rice (and others) researchers to effectively use them as a potential marker for better understanding, and ultimately, in defining rice (and plant) self-defense response pathways.
1680758	A survey was carried out during post-monsoon period (1988-89) in villages of Dhaulana Primary Health Centre, Distt. Ghaziabad (U.P.) to evaluate the utility of Azolla pinnata for the control of mosquito breeding in different habitats. Results of the survey revealed that pools, ponds, wells, rice fields and drains were infested with Azolla. Infestation rate and intensity of infestation varied from habitat to habitat. Maximum infestation (36.5%) was observed in pools and minimum (3.7%) in rice fields. Anopheline breeding was almost completely suppressed (0-1.6/dip) in pools, wells and ponds completely covered with Azolla. The breeding of Culex spp. was not completely inhibited in any habitat, though reduction in immature density was observed in comparison to control. The role of Azolla in controlling mosquito breeding and its association with the blue green algae which fixes nitrogen is discussed.
16807829	Plant patterns have to integrate environmental cues and to cope with a high level of noise in the sensory outputs of individual cells. In the first part of this review, we demonstrate that local self-amplification linked to lateral inhibition can meet this requirement. In the second part, we describe the search for candidates for such self-amplification loops in the context of auxin-dependent cell growth using Graminean coleoptiles as a model. Auxin-dependent reorganization of actin microfilaments interfered with the auxin sensitivity of growth. Auxin might control the intracellular transport of factors important for auxin sensing via the actomyosin system. By means of a rice mutant with elevated auxin responsiveness, we identified an auxin response factor (OSARF1), whose expression is upregulated by auxin as a second candidate for a self-amplification loop. We studied the cross-talk between auxin signalling and environmental cues in the rice mutant hebiba, where the photoinhibition of growth is impaired. We found that jasmonate plays a central role in this cross-talk correlated to a downregulation of auxin responsiveness. To obtain an insight into auxin-dependent coordination, we analyzed a tobacco cell line with axial cell divisions. By a combination of modelling and physiological manipulation, we could demonstrate that auxin synchronizes the divisions of adjacent cells on the background of strong heterogeneity of individual cells. We conclude that self-amplification of auxin signalling coupled to mutual competition for available auxin provides a versatile tool to fulfill the special requirements posed by patterning in plants.
16807830	A survey of recent results is presented concerning the role of cytokinin degradation in plants, which is catalyzed by cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase (CKX) enzymes. An overview of Arabidopsis CKX gene expression suggests that their differential regulation by biotic and abiotic factors contributes significantly to functional specification. Here, we show using reporter gene and semiquantitative RT-PCR analyses regulation of individual CKX genes by cytokinin, auxin, ABA, and phosphate starvation. Partially overlapping expression domains of CKX genes and cytokinin-synthesizing IPT genes in meristematic tissues and endo-reduplicating cells lend support for a locally restricted function of cytokinin. On the other hand, their expression in vascular tissue suggests a function in controlling transported cytokinin. Recent studies led to a model for the biochemical reaction mechanism of CKX-mediated catalysis, which was refined on the basis of the three-dimensional enzyme structure. Last but not least, the developmental functions of CKX enzymes are addressed. The recent identification of the rice OSCKX2 gene as an important novel breeding tool is highlighted. Together the results corroborate the relevance of metabolic control in determining cytokinin activity.
16808845	Transient assays using protoplasts are ideal for processing large quantities of genetic data coming out of hi-throughput assays. Previously, protoplasts have routinely been prepared from dicot tissue or cell suspension cultures and yet a good system for rice protoplast isolation and manipulation is lacking. We have established a rice seedling protoplast system designed for the rapid characterization of large numbers of genes. We report optimized methods for protoplast isolation from 7-14 day old etiolated rice seedlings. We show that the reporter genes luciferase GL2 and GUS are maximally expressed approximately 20 h after polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transformation into protoplasts. In addition we found that transformation efficiency varied significantly with plasmid size. Five micrograms of a 4.5 kb plasmid resulted in 60-70% transformation efficiency. In contrast, using 50 microg of a 12 kb plasmid we obtained a maximum of 25-30% efficiency. We also show that short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) can be used to silence exogenous genes quickly and efficiently. An siRNA targeting luciferase resulted in a significant level of silencing after only 3 hours and up to an 83% decrease in expression. We have also isolated protoplasts from cells prepared from fully green tissue. These green tissue-derived protoplasts can be transformed to express high levels of luciferase activity and should be useful for assaying light sensitive cellular processes. We report a system for isolation, transformation and gene silencing of etiolated rice leaf and stem-derived protoplasts. Additionally, we have extended the technology to protoplasts isolated from fully green tissue. The protoplast system will bridge the gap between hi-throughput assays and functional biology as it can be used to quickly study large number of genes for which the function is unknown.
16808934	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are a group of plant hormones involved in a wide range of plant growth and developmental processes. To investigate the mechanism of BR action in monocots, a brassinolide (BL) upregulated gene designated OsBLE3 was identified, cloned and characterized in rice. It was mainly expressed in roots and leaf sheaths with levels of expression directly dependent on the dose of BL. In situ hybridization detected OsBLE3 mRNA in the shoot apical meristem, organ primordia and vascular tissue. Furthermore, its expression was enhanced by co-treatment with BL and low concentrations of IAA. These results, and the existence of auxin response elements in the 5'-flanking region of the OsBLE3 gene, indicate that OsBLE3 expression is under control of both BR and auxin. The GUS reporter gene driven by a 2277 bp OsBLE3 putative promoter was mainly expressed in vascular tissues, branch root primordia and was responsive to exogenous BL treatment. OsBLE3 transcript levels were greatly reduced in brd1 plants, a BL deficient mutant, compared to the wild type control. In OsBRI1 antisense transgenic rice and OsBLE3, the BR-insensitive mutant expression of OsBLE3 in response to exogenous BL treatment was significantly lower compared to that in control plants transformed with a vacant vector. Reduced OsBLE3 expression and growth retardation was also observed in OsBLE3 antisense transgenic rice plants. Internode cell length of the OsBLE3 antisense transgenic lines was about 70% of that in the vacant vector transformed control lines. These results suggest that OsBLE3 is involved in cell elongation in rice through dual regulation by BL and IAA.
1680974	Fetal alcohol syndrome is an uncommon occurrence in Taiwan, especially in the southern area. We report here a case who demonstrated severe intrauterine growth retardation with major limb reduction, chest hypoplasia and characteristic facial dysmorphism-short palpebral fissures, hypoplastic philtrum, and a thin upper lip. The mother had been consuming large quantities of alcohol, 6 bottles of "rice wine" per day (800 grams of absolute alcohol per day) during the pregnancy. The maternal serum level of ethanol was as high as 173 mg/dl. According to previous reports, we causally suggest that maternal ethanol abuse may be related to fetal anomalies in this case.
1680980	Twenty New Zealand rabbits were chosen for this study (5 for controls and 15 for the alcohol group). In the alcohol group, each rabbit was fed with rice wine (2 g/kg/day alcohol) for 1 year. Bone marrow pressure of the femoral basal neck, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), liver functions, uric acid, triglyceride, cholesterol, amylase, and blood alcohol level were measured at 0 day, 6 months and 1 year. Finally, the rabbits were sacrificed at the end of the study. The livers and femoral heads were examined for pathology. The bone volume and fat cell size of the femoral head were measured with a computerized "Bone Scanner". The results (1 year comparison) were a significantly higher level of cholesterol in the alcohol group (72 +/- 40 mg% vs 26 +/- 8 mg%, p less than 0.05) and greater bone marrow pressure (27.71 +/- 8.97 mmHg vs 18.20 +/- 4.09 mmHg, p less than 0.05), and no significant difference in triglyceride, uric acid and liver function, ESR, etc., when using Student's 2-tailed t-test. Liver changes (fatty liver) occurred in 3 animals in the alcohol group. The effect of alcohol on the trabecular bone volume was not significant (51.5 +/- 4.6 vol.% vs 50.0 +/- 5.2 vol.%), but the average fat cell size of the femoral head was significantly larger than that for normal controls (2,745 +/- 605 mu2 vs 2,185 +/- 458 mu2, p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
16809902	The present study was designed to investigate the influence of natural brown and black rice consumption on serum lipid parameters and hepatic enzyme activities in rats fed different combinations of grains. 50 male rats were divided into 4 groups and raised for 8 weeks on diets containing white rice (WH), white rice and brown rice (WHBR), white rice and black rice (WHBL), brown rice and black rice (BRBL). Blood samples were collected for lipid measurements, and the oxidant and antioxidant status of liver was evaluated. Plasma triglyceride, total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in rats fed the WH diet were higher than in other groups. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol was significantly higher in rats fed diets including black rice such as WHBL and BRBL compared with WH and WHBR. The level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances in liver is shown to be higher in rats in the order of those fed WH, WHBR, WHBL and BRBL. While superoxide dismutase and chloramphenicol acetyltransferase did not differ among the 4 groups, glutathione and glutathione peroxidase in WH were significantly lower than in other groups. This study demonstrates that brown and black rice have cardioprotective effects.
16813297	Several restriction sites in the cytochrome oxidase I gene of fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith), were identified by sequence analysis as potentially being specific to one of the two host strains. Strain specificity was demonstrated for populations in Florida, Texas, Mississippi, Georgia, and North Carolina, with an AciI and SacI site specific to the rice (Oryjza spp.)-strain and a BsmI and HinfI site joining an already characterized MspI site as diagnostic of the corn (Zea mays L.)-strain. All four of these sites can be detected by digestion of a single 568-bp polymerase chain reaction-amplified fragment, but the use of two enzymes in separate digests was found to provide accurate and rapid determination of strain identity. The effectiveness of this method was demonstrated by the analysis of almost 200 adult and larval specimens from the Mississippi delta region. The results indicated that the corn-strain is likely to be the primary strain infesting cotton (Gossypium spp.) and that an unexpected outbreak of fall armyworm on the ornamental tree Paulownia tomentosa (Thunb.) Sieb. & Zucc. ex Steud. was due almost entirely to the rice-strain.
16815613	Phytoremediation is an emerging strategy to remediate soils contaminated with pollutants like explosives in which plants will uptake, degrade and/or accumulate pollutants. To implement this technology on a site contaminated with RDX, we chose rice, which is able to grow in lagoons, and we tested its ability to grow in soils with high levels of RDX and to decrease RDX concentrations in soil. Rice was grown for 40 days in soil contaminated with increasing [14C]RDX concentrations. Emergence and growth were not affected by RDX. Total chlorophyll content decreased with RDX concentrations of over 500 mg kg(-1). Amounts of chlorophyll were correlated with the appearance of necrosis in leaf extremities. After 40 days, rice translocated 89% of uptaken radioactivity to leaves with 90% in leaf extremities. Analyzes of leaf extracts showed that 95% of radioactivity was RDX in its parent form. Necrosis appears to be a phytotoxic symptom of RDX accumulation.
16816135	Submergence-1 (Sub1), a major quantitative trait locus affecting tolerance to complete submergence in lowland rice (Oryza sativa), contains two or three ethylene response factor (ERF)-like genes whose transcripts are regulated by submergence. In the submergence-intolerant japonica cultivar M202, this locus encodes two ERF genes, Sub1B and Sub1C. In the tolerant near-isogenic line containing the Sub1 locus from the indica FR13A, M202(Sub1), the locus additionally encodes the ERF gene Sub1A. During submergence, the tolerant M202(Sub1) displayed restrained leaf and internode elongation, chlorophyll degradation, and carbohydrate consumption, whereas the enzymatic activities of pyruvate decarboxylase and alcohol dehydrogenase were increased significantly compared with the intolerant M202. Transcript levels of genes associated with carbohydrate consumption, ethanolic fermentation, and cell expansion were distinctly regulated in the two lines. Sub1A and Sub1C transcript levels were shown to be upregulated by submergence and ethylene, with the Sub1C allele in M202 also upregulated by treatment with gibberellic acid (GA). These findings demonstrate that the Sub1 region haplotype determines ethylene- and GA-mediated metabolic and developmental responses to submergence through differential expression of Sub1A and Sub1C. Submergence tolerance in lowland rice is conferred by a specific allele variant of Sub1A that dampens ethylene production and GA responsiveness, causing quiescence in growth that correlates with the capacity for regrowth upon desubmergence.
16816407	Reactive oxygen intermediates (ROIs) play a pivotal role in the hypersensitive response (HR) in disease resistance. NADPH oxidase is a major source of ROI; however, the mechanisms of its regulation are unclear. Rice spl mutants spontaneously form lesions which resemble those occurring during the HR, suggesting that the mutations affect regulation of the HR. We found that spl2, spl7 and spl11 mutant cells accumulated increased amounts of H(2)O(2) in response to rice blast fungal elicitor. Increased accumulation of ROIs was suppressed by inhibition of NADPH oxidase in the spl cells, and was also observed in the ozone-exposed spl plants. These mutants have sufficient activities of ROI-scavenging enzymes compared with the wild type. In addition, spl7 mutant cells accumulated higher amounts of H(2)O(2) when treated with calyculin A (CA), an inhibitor of protein phosphatase. Furthermore, spl2 mutant plants exhibited accelerated accumulation of H(2)O(2) and increased rates of cell death in response to wounding. These results suggest that the spl2, spl7 and spl11 mutants are defective in the regulation of NADPH oxidase, and the spl7 mutation may give rise to enhancement of the signaling pathway which protein dephosphorylation controls, while the spl2 mutation affects both the pathogen-induced and wound-induced signaling pathways.
16818436	Construction of genomic libraries is basic and important. Because of the laboriousness and high background of traditional methods for constructing genomic libraries, we improved them by overcoming these disadvantages. Two Ear I sites were chosen as the cloning sites, which can produce variable 3-base cohesive ends. Therefore the two overhangs could be devised to prevent a match and to avoid self-ligation of vector. Genomic DNA is cleaved partially with Sau3A I and subsequently incubated with dGTP and Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase Iso the self-ligation of fragments and ligation between them are blocked. In this study, the ARS probe vector (pHBM803/Trp) based on the improved method was constructed and then we constructed the Oryza sativa genomic library separately with the traditional method and improved method and compared them. The result of experiment indicated that the improved method could optimize the quality of library.
16818440	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) distribute numerously and high-density throughout rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome. A total of 80,127 SNP sites were identified in rice genome, and one SNP every 154 bp was found between two rice subspecies indica and japonica. The SNP rate is 0.65%. SNPs also are very considerable among within-subspecies cultivars, even it can be found between closely related cultivars, in which it has been difficult to find polymorphic sites by conventional methods. The frequency of SNPs in rice genome varied between chromosomes, moreover it showed uneven distribution of polymorphism-rich and -poor regions along each chromosome. Several routes have been used for identification of SNP in rice, such as sequencing PCR products of DNA samples, screening SNPs in SSR fragments, and searching for SNPs through the rice genome sequences and EST database. A number of genotyping systems have been developed to identify SNPs in rice genome. High automation in SNPs identification has become a very convenient operation by the automatized systems. SNPs can be converted to CAPS (cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence) or dCAPS (derived-CAPS), and allele-specific PCR markers. SNP has shown huge potential in establishing rice genetic maps, genes cloning and functional genomics, MAS (marker assisted selection) in rice breeding, and studying on classification and evolution of germplasm.
16818484	The miniature Ping (mPing) is a recently discovered endogenous miniature inverted repeat transposable element (MITE) in rice, which can be mobilized by tissue culture or irradiation. It is reported here that mPing, together with one of its putative transposase-encoding partners, Pong, was efficiently mobilized in somatic cells of intact rice plants of two distinct cultivars derived from germinating seeds subjected to high hydrostatic pressure, whereas the other autonomous element of mPing, Ping, remained static in the plants studied. mPing excision was detected in several plants of both cultivars in the treated generation (P0), which were selected based on their novel phenotypes. Southern blot analysis and transposon-display assay on selfed progenies (P1 generation) of two selected P0 plants, one from each of the cultivars, revealed polymorphic banding patterns consistent with mobilization of mPing and Pong. Various mPing excisions and de novo insertions, as detected by element-bracketing, locus-specific PCR assays, occurred in the different P1 plants of both cultivars. Pong excision at one locus for each cultivar was also detected by using a Pong internal primer together with locus-specific flanking primers in the P1 plants. In contrast to the pressurized plants, immobility of both mPing and Pong in control plants, and the absence of within-cultivar heterozygosity at the analysed loci were verified by Southern blotting and/or locus-assay. Sequencing at 18 mPing empty donor sites isolated from the pressurized plants indicated properties characteristic of the element excision. Sequence-based mapping of 10 identified mPing de novo insertions from P1 progenies of pressurized plants indicated that all were in unique or low-copy regions, conforming with the targeting propensity of mPing. No evidence for further mPing activity was detected in the P2 plants tested. In spite of the high activity of mPing and Pong in the pressurized plants, amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis denoted their general genomic stability, and several potentially active retrotransposons also remained largely immobile. Further investigation showed that the same hydrostatic pressure treatments also caused mobilization of mPing in the standard laboratory cultivar for japonica rice, Nipponbare. Thus, a simple and robust approach for in planta MITE-mobilization in rice has been established by using high hydrostatic pressure treatment, which may be useful as an alternative for gene-tagging in this important crop plant.
16819298	Up to 35% of the rice genome consists of various kinds of transposons, and CACTA and MITE are two of the major class 2 DNA transposons in the genome. We have employed the consensus sequences of Rim2/Hipa CACTA, Stowaway MITE Pangrangja, and Tourist MITE Ditto for transposon display (TD) analysis to locate them on a genetic map, with 58 SSR markers used to anchor them. The TD analysis produced a high profile of the polymorphisms between the parental lines, Oryza sativa var. Gihobyeo/O. sativa var. Milyang, in intraspecific F15 RIL lines, locating 368 markers of Rim2/Hipa CACTA, 78 markers of Tourist MITE Ditto, and 22 markers of Stowaway MITE Pangrangja. In the segregation analysis, non-parental segregating bands and segregation distortion bands were observed. The recombinant genetic map spans 3023.9 cM, with 5.7 cM the average distance between markers. The TD markers were distributed unequally on the chromosomes because many TD markers were located in pericentric chromosomal regions except in the cases of chromosomes 2, 3, 6 and 9. Although the number of transposon markers was not sufficient to include all rice class 2 transposons, the current map of CACTA and MITE transposons should provide new insight into the genome organization of rice since no previous DNA transposon map is available.
16819304	The plastid transformation approach offers a number of unique advantages, including high-level transgene expression, multi-gene engineering, transgene containment, and a lack of gene silencing and position effects. The extension of plastid transformation technology to monocotyledonous cereal crops, including rice, bears great promise for the improvement of agronomic traits, and the efficient production of pharmaceutical or nutritional enhancement. Here, we report a promising step towards stable plastid transformation in rice. We produced fertile transplastomic rice plants and demonstrated transmission of the plastid-expressed green fluorescent protein (GFP) and aminoglycoside 3'-adenylyltransferase genes to the progeny of these plants. Transgenic chloroplasts were determined to have stably expressed the GFP, which was confirmed by both confocal microscopy and Western blot analyses. Although the produced rice plastid transformants were found to be heteroplastomic, and the transformation efficiency requires further improvement, this study has established a variety of parameters for the use of plastid transformation technology in cereal crops.
16819623	Significant progress has been made in unraveling the molecular biology of rice in the past two decades. Today, rice stands as a forerunner amongst the cereals in terms of details known on its genetics. Evidence show that salt tolerance in plants is a quantitative trait. Several traditional cultivars, landraces, and wild types of rice like Pokkali, CSR types, and Porteresia coarctata appear as promising materials for donation of requisite salt tolerance genes. A large number of quantitative trait loci (QTL) have been identified for salt tolerance in rice through generation of recombinant inbred lines and are being mapped using different types of DNA markers. Salt-tolerant transgenic rice plants have been produced using a host of different genes and transcript profiling by micro- and macroarray-based methods has opened the gates for the discovery of novel salt stress mechanisms in rice, and comparative genomics is turning out to be a critical input in this respect. In this paper, we present a comprehensive review of the genetic, molecular biology, and comparative genomics effort towards the generation of salt-tolerant rice. From the data on comprehensive transcript expression profiling of clones representing salt-stress-associated genes of rice, it is shown that transcriptional and translational machineries are important determinants in controlling salt stress response, and gene expression response in tolerant and susceptible rice plants differs mainly in quantitative terms.
16819716	To investigate genome size evolution, it is usually informative to compare closely related species that vary dramatically in genome size. A whole genome duplication (polyploidy) that occurred in rice (Oryza sativa) about 70 million years ago has been well documented based on current genome sequencing. The presence of three distinct duplicate blocks from the polyploidy, of which one duplicated segment in a block is intact (no sequencing gap) and less than half the length of its syntenic duplicate segment, provided an excellent opportunity for elucidating the causes of their size variation during the post-polyploid time. The results indicated that incongruent patterns (shrunken, balanced and inflated) of chromosomal size evolution occurred in the three duplicate blocks, spanning over 30 Mb among chromosomes 2, 3, 6, 7, and 10, with an average of 20.3% for each. DNA sequences of chromosomes 2 and 3 appeared to had become as short as about half of their initial sequence lengths, chromosomes 6 and 7 had remained basically balanced, and chromosome 10 had become dramatically enlarged (approximately 70%). The size difference between duplicate segments of rice was mainly caused by variations in non-repetitive DNA loss. Amplification of long terminal repeat retrotransposons also played an important role. Moreover, a relationship seems to exist between the chromosomal size differences and the nonhomologous combination in corresponding regions in the rice genome. These findings help shed light on the evolutionary mechanism of genomic sequence variation after polyploidy and genome size evolution.
16819780	LTR retrotransposons constitute one of the most abundant classes of repetitive elements in eukaryotic genomes. In this paper, we present a new algorithm for detection of full-length LTR retrotransposons in genomic sequences. The algorithm identifies regions in a genomic sequence that show structural characteristics of LTR retrotransposons. Three key components distinguish our algorithm from that of current software--(i) a novel method that preprocesses the entire genomic sequence in linear time and produces high quality pairs of LTR candidates in run-time that is constant per pair, (ii) a thorough alignment-based evaluation of candidate pairs to ensure high quality prediction, and (iii) a robust parameter set encompassing both structural constraints and quality controls providing users with a high degree of flexibility. We implemented our algorithm into a software program called LTR_par, which can be run on both serial and parallel computers. Validation of our software against the yeast genome indicates superior results in both quality and performance when compared to existing software. Additional validations are presented on rice BACs and chimpanzee genome.
16819933	Retrogradation in rice is a trait that describes the hardening of cooked rice after storage or cooling, and it has significant implications for many consumers of rice, since many people cook rice in the morning and consume it several hours later or the next day. Tools to select against retrogradation in breeding programs are yet to be described. Here, we aim to determine the effect on retrogradation of storage time and temperature and the role of starch, protein, and lipids using gels made from Koshihikari grown in either Australia or Japan. Immediately after cooking, cooling from 60 to 40 degrees C had a minimal effect on firmness, but cooling to 20 degrees C led to significantly firmer gels. Storing the gels at low temperatures did not have an additional effect on the firmness as compared with storing the gels at 20, 40, or 60 degrees C. The removal of proteins led to significantly softer gels at all storage treatments but did not affect the change in firmness on cooling. The removal of lipids increased the rate of retrogradation and the firmness of gels significantly for all treatments. Koshihikari grown in Japan retrograded much less than Koshihikari grown in Australia. The amount of amylose that could be washed from gels made from Australian flour was much greater than for gels made from Japanese flour. After storage, only low molecular weight amylose chains were released from the gel and only after rewarming them to 60 degrees C. Despite the fact that flours from both origins were 18% amylose, the amount of long amylose chains that were complexed with lipids was much greater for the Japanese rice, and the unavailability of the complexed long amylose chains explained the lack of retrogradation in the Japanese rice. Once the long chains were released from amylose-lipid complexes, the Japanese rice retrograded. Thus, the environmental factor affecting retrogradation in this variety is type or amount of lipids synthesized, and the degree of retrogradation was determined by the availability of long chains of amylose.
16820394	In recent years, microRNAs (miRNAs) have polarized the interest of the scientific community as a new category of gene expression regulators, present in both plants and animals. Plant miRNAs are involved in processes such as plant development, organ identity, and stress response. Nonetheless, knowledge of their functions is still incomplete, and it is conceivable that further new processes in which they are involved will be discovered. For these reasons, structural and functional characterization of MIR genes, that are also in crop species such as Zea mays L., becomes instrumental in addressing genetic and molecular mechanisms controlling phenotype determination and phenotypic adaptation to growing conditions. The present study contributes to the characterization of five miRNA families in maize, from the determination of their expression pattern in different maize tissues and genotypes, to the identification of putative targets by bioinformatic means and subsequent experimental validation of three targets by modified 5' RACE experiments. Furthermore, 30 different MIR genes belonging to these five miRNA families were analysed by their attribution to maize chromosomes using oat-maize addition lines and by investigating their phylogenetic relationship with genes from other cereals. In particular, sequence homology was determined by the reciprocal best BLAST hit approach, to define groups of homologous genes between maize, rice, and sorghum.
16820865	FCA and FY are flowering time related genes involved in the autonomous flowering pathway in Arabidopsis. FCA interacts with FY to regulate the alternative processing of FCA pre-mRNA. The FCA/FY interaction is also required for the regulation of FLC expression, a major floral repressor in Arabidopsis. However, it is not clear if the regulation of this autonomous flowering pathway is also present in monocot plants, such as rice. Recently, alternative RNA processing of OsFCA was observed in rice, which strongly suggested the existence of an autonomous flowering pathway in rice. In this work, we cloned the cDNA of the autonomous flowering pathway gene OsFY from rice. The predicted OsFY protein contained a conserved 7 WD-repeat region and at least two Pro-Pro-Leu-Pro motifs compared to Arabidopsis FY. The protein-protein interaction between OsFY and OsFCA-gamma, the key feature of their gene function, was also demonstrated using the yeast two-hybrid system. The GenBank database search provided evidence of expression for other autonomous pathway gene homologs in rice. These results indicate that the autonomous flowering pathway is present in monocots, and the regulation through FY and FCA interaction is conserved between monocots and dicots.
16822203	The effect of 3-O-methyl-D-chiro-inositol (D-pinitol), purified from soybean, on the postprandial blood glucose response in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus was examined. Fifteen Korean subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus (seven men, eight women; 60.3 +/- 3.1 years old) ingested cooked white rice containing 50 g of available carbohydrate with or without prior ingestion of soy pinitol. Pinitol was given either as a 1.2 g dose at 0, 60, 120, or 180 minutes prior to rice ingestion, or as a 0.6 g dose at 60 minutes prior to rice ingestion. Capillary blood glucose levels were monitored for 4 hours after rice consumption. The ingestion of 1.2 g of pinitol 60 minutes prior to rice consumption controlled postprandial capillary blood glucose most effectively, significantly diminishing the postprandial increase in plasma glucose levels measured at 90 and 120 minutes after rice consumption (P < .05). The incremental area under the plasma glucose response curve for subjects who consumed both pinitol and rice was significantly lower than that for subjects who consumed only rice (P < .05), but pinitol had no apparent effect on postprandial insulin levels. Therefore, soybean-derived pinitol may be useful in controlling postprandial increases in blood glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes.
16822813	Lipids in dimeric photosystem II complexes prepared from two species of cyanobacteria, Thermosynechococcus vulcanus and Synechocystis sp. PCC6803, and two higher plants, spinach and rice, were analyzed to determine how many lipid molecules and what class of lipids are present in the photosystem II complexes. It was estimated that 27, 20, 8, and 7 lipid molecules per monomer are bound to the dimeric photosystem II complexes of T. vulcanus, Synechocystis, spinach, and rice, respectively. In each of the organisms, the lipid composition of the photosystem II complexes was quite different from that of the thylakoid membranes used for preparation of the complexes. The content of phosphatidylglycerol in the photosystem II complexes of each organism was much higher than that in the thylakoid membranes. Phospholipase A2 treatment of the photosystem II complexes of Synechocystis that degraded phosphatidylglycerol resulted in impairment of QB-mediated but not QA-mediated electron transport. These findings suggest that phosphatidylglycerol plays important roles in the electron transport at the QB-binding site in photosystem II complexes.
16824094	Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, invades plant tissue due to the action of specialized infection structures called appressoria, which are used to breach the leaf cuticle and allow development of intracellular, infectious hyphae. In this report we demonstrate that peroxisomal carnitine acetyl transferase (CAT) activity is necessary for appressorium function, and in particular, for the elaboration of primary penetration hyphae. The major CAT activity in M. grisea is encoded by the PTH2 gene, which shows elevated expression in response to acetate and lipid, and is regulated by the cyclic AMP response pathway. Furthermore, a Pth2-GFP fusion protein colocalizes with a peroxisomal marker protein. Targeted deletion of PTH2, generated mutants that were completely non-pathogenic, lacked CAT activity and were unable to utilize a range of lipid substrates. The impairment of appressorium function in Deltapth2 was associated with a delay in lipid reserve mobilization from germ tubes into developing infection cells, and abnormal chitin distribution in infection structures. Addition of glucose to Deltapth2 mutants partially restored the ability to cause rice blast disease and lipid reserve mobilization. Taken together, our findings provide evidence that Pth2 plays a role in the generation of acetyl CoA pools necessary for appressorium function and rapid elaboration of penetration hyphae during host infection.
16824095	In lower eukaryotes, beta-oxidation of fatty acids is restricted primarily to the peroxisomes and the resultant acetyl-CoA molecules (and the chain-shortened fatty acids) are transported via the cytosol into the mitochondria for further breakdown and usage. Using a loss-of-function mutation in the Magnaporthe grisea PEROXIN6 orthologue, we define an essential role for peroxisomal acetyl-CoA during the host invasion step of the rice-blast disease. We show that an Mgpex6Delta strain lacks functional peroxisomes and is incapable of beta-oxidation of long-chain fatty acids. The Mgpex6Delta mutant lacked appressorial melanin and host penetration, and was completely non-pathogenic. We further show that a peroxisome-associated carnitine acetyl-transferase (Crat1) activity is essential for such appressorial function in Magnaporthe. CRAT1-minus appressoria showed reduced melanization, but were surprisingly incapable of elaborating penetration pegs or infection hyphae. Exogenous addition of excess glucose during infection stage caused partial remediation of the pathogenicity defects in the crat1Delta strain. Moreover, Mgpex6Delta and crat1Delta mycelia showed increased sensitivity to Calcofluor white, suggesting that weakened cell wall biosynthesis in a glucose-deficient environment leads to appressorial dysfunction in these mutants. Interestingly, CRAT1 was itself essential for growth on acetate and long-chain fatty acids. Thus, carnitine-dependent metabolic activities associated with the peroxisomes, cooperatively facilitate the appressorial function of host invasion during rice-blast infections.
16825476	Assessments of the efficacy of mitigation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from paddy rice systems have typically been analyzed based on field studies. Extrapolation of the mitigation potential of alternative management practices from field studies to a national scale may be enhanced by spatially explicit process models, like the DeNitrification and DeComposition (DNDC) model. Our objective was to analyze the impacts of mitigation alternatives, management of water, fertilizer, and rice straw, on net GHG emissions (carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide fluxes), yields, and water use. After constructing a GIS database of soil, climate, rice cropping area and systems, and management practices, we ran DNDC with 21-yr alternative management schemes for each of the approximately 2500 counties in China. Results indicate that, despite large-scale adoption of midseason drainage, there is still large potential for additional methane reductions from Chinese rice paddies of 20 to 60% over 2000-2020. However, changes in management for reducing CH4 emissions simultaneously affect soil carbon dynamics as well as N2O emissions and can thereby reorder the ranking of technical mitigation effectiveness. The order of net GHG emissions reduction effectiveness found here is upland rice > shallow flooding > ammonium sulfate > midseason drainage > off-season straw > slow-release fertilizer > continuous flooding. Most of the management alternatives produced yields comparable to the baseline; however, continuous flooding and upland rice significantly reduced yields. Water management strategies appear to be the most technically promising GHG mitigation alternatives, with shallow flooding providing additional benefits of both water conservation and increased yields.
16825649	A non-pigmented, motile, Gram-negative bacterium designated MTCC 4195(T) was isolated from surface-sterilized seeds and plant tissue from deep-water rice (Oryza sativa) cultivated in Suraha Tal Lake in northern India. This isolate was shown to reinfect and colonize deep-water rice endophytically. The highest level of 16S rRNA sequence similarity (96.8 %) to strain MTCC 4195(T) was shown by Ochrobactrum gallinifaecis DSM 15295(T). Strain MTCC 4195(T) utilized gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, adonitol, d-glucosaminic acid and arabinose as carbon sources, but failed to use gentiobiose or citrate. The cell-wall fatty acids of strain MTCC 4195(T) were characterized by the presence of a relatively large proportion of C(18 : 1)omega7c and a relative small proportion of C(16 : 0) in comparison with Ochrobactrum species. DNA-DNA relatedness studies showed less than 52 % binding with the DNAs of type strains of other species of the genus Ochrobactrum. On the basis of phenotypic and genotypic characteristics and the results of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, the novel species Ochrobactrum oryzae sp. nov. is proposed, with MTCC 4195(T) (=DSM 17471(T)) as the type strain.
16827922	The MADS-box transcription factor-encoding genes are expressed mainly during plant reproductive development, where they play important roles in controlling floral organ initiation and identity. Few previous reports have investigated the functions of MADS-box transcription factors expressed in vegetative tissues. Here we describe the functional characterization of a rice AG-like MADS-box protein, OsMDP1 (Oryza sativa MADS-domain-containing protein 1). A partial cDNA encoding a MADS-box domain was identified via high-throughput screening of rice brassinolide-regulated genes, and the full-length cDNA was subsequently isolated via screening of a cDNA library constructed from rice materials at tillering stage. Expression pattern analyses indicated that OsMDP1 is transcribed mainly in vegetative tissues, including the mature leaf, coleoptile, root-elongation zone, culm internode, and especially the joint region between the leaf blade and sheath. Further studies revealed that transcription of OsMDP1 is stimulated by darkness and suppressed by brassinolide treatment. OsMDP1 deficiency resulted in shortened primary roots, elongated coleoptiles and enhanced lamina joint inclinations. Moreover, transgenic plants showed hypersensitivities to exogenous brassinolide in terms of lamina joint inclination and coleoptile elongation. OsMDP1 deficiency resulted in enhanced expression of OsXTR1, which encodes xyloglucan endotransglycosylase, the cell-wall loosening enzyme necessary for cell elongation, and modulated expressions of multiple genes involved in cell signalling and gene transcription, indicating the key negative regulatory role of OsMDP1 in BR signalling.
16828710	beta-Amyloid (Abeta) is the primary protein component of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and has been implicated in neurotoxicity associated with the disease. Abeta aggregates readily in vitro and in vivo, and its toxicity has been linked to its aggregation state. Prevention of Abeta aggregation has been investigated as a means to prevent Abeta toxicity associated with AD. Recently we found that Hsp20 from Babesia bovis prevented both Abeta aggregation and toxicity [S. Lee, K. Carson, A. Rice-Ficht, T. Good, Hsp20, a novel alpha-crystallin, prevents Abeta fibril formation and toxicity, Protein Sci. 14 (2005) 593-601.]. In this work, we examined the mechanism of Hsp20 interaction with Abeta1-40 and compared its activity to that of other small heat shock proteins, carrot Hsp17.7 and human Hsp27. While all three small heat shock proteins were able to prevent Abeta aggregation, only Hsp20 was able to attenuate Abeta toxicity in cultured SH-SY5Y cells. Understanding the mechanism of the Hsp20-Abeta interaction may provide insights into the design of the next generation of Abeta aggregation and toxicity inhibitors.
16829064	Paenibacillus sp. strain HC1 is the first bacterium capable of growing on rice bran hemicellulose as a sole carbon source. Two xylanases (Xyl-I and -II) were purified from the bacterial culture fluid and enzymatically characterized. Xyl-I and -II showed monomer forms with molecular masses of 30 and 18kDa, respectively, and were most active at around pH 5.0 and 45 degrees C. Xylooligosaccharides were degraded to xylobiose and xylose by Xyl-I, but not by Xyl-II, suggesting that Xyl-I plays an important role in complete depolymerization of xylan. Both enzymes acted endolytically on rice bran hemicellulose, indicating that Xyl-I and -II contribute to the structure determination and practical use of the polysaccharide, an unutilized biomass in technology.
16829581	Chitin is a major component of fungal cell walls and serves as a molecular pattern for the recognition of potential pathogens in the innate immune systems of both plants and animals. In plants, chitin oligosaccharides have been known to induce various defense responses in a wide range of plant cells including both monocots and dicots. To clarify the molecular machinery involved in the perception and transduction of chitin oligosaccharide elicitor, a high-affinity binding protein for this elicitor was isolated from the plasma membrane of suspension-cultured rice cells. Characterization of the purified protein, CEBiP, as well as the cloning of the corresponding gene revealed that CEBiP is actually a glycoprotein consisting of 328 amino acid residues and glycan chains. CEBiP was predicted to have a short membrane spanning domain at the C terminus. Knockdown of CEBiP gene by RNA interference resulted in the suppression of the elicitor-induced oxidative burst as well as the gene responses, showing that CEBiP plays a key role in the perception and transduction of chitin oligosaccharide elicitor in the rice cells. Structural analysis of CEBiP also indicated the presence of two LysM motifs in the extracellular portion of CEBiP. As the LysM motif has been known to exist in the putative Nod-factor receptor kinases involved in the symbiotic signaling between leguminous plants and rhizobial bacteria, the result indicates the involvement of partially homologous plasma membrane proteins both in defense and symbiotic signaling in plant cells.
16829590	Retroposition is widely found to play essential roles in origination of new mammalian and other animal genes. However, the scarcity of retrogenes in plants has led to the assumption that plant genomes rarely evolve new gene duplicates by retroposition, despite abundant retrotransposons in plants and a reported long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposon-mediated mechanism of retroposing cellular genes in maize (Zea mays). We show extensive retropositions in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome, with 1235 identified primary retrogenes. We identified 27 of these primary retrogenes within LTR retrotransposons, confirming a previously observed role of retroelements in generating plant retrogenes. Substitution analyses revealed that the vast majority are subject to negative selection, suggesting, along with expression data and evidence of age, that they are likely functional retrogenes. In addition, 42% of these retrosequences have recruited new exons from flanking regions, generating a large number of chimerical genes. We also identified young chimerical genes, suggesting that gene origination through retroposition is ongoing, with a rate an order of magnitude higher than the rate in primates. Finally, we observed that retropositions have followed an unexpected spatial pattern in which functional retrogenes avoid centromeric regions, while retropseudogenes are randomly distributed. These observations suggest that retroposition is an important mechanism that governs gene evolution in rice and other grass species.
16830182	The distribution and evolution of Au SINE in plants were examined. Au SINE is a short interspersed element first identified in Aegilops umbellulata, a close relative of wheat. The Au SINE was previously found in species such as wheat, maize, tobacco, and tomato, but not in rice. In this study, we first searched public databases, and next examined the presence of Au in a broad range of plant species by PCR using internal primers of Au. Although Au is likely to be absent from many species including rice, it was identified in many Gramineae, Solanaceae, and Fabaceae species, and also in a basal angiosperm species, Asimina triloba. Phylogenetic studies suggest that Au SINE originated before the divergence of monocots and eudicots. Au SINE sequences of Asimina, Triticum, Zea, Nicotiana, Lotus, Medicago, and Glycine were aligned and compared. Although sequences of Au were highly conserved among distantly related species, every Au element in Glycine had a 16 bp deletion and its 3' end differed from sequences of other species. This type of Au could only be found in G. max, and not in other species including other Fabaceae species such as M. truncatula and L. japonicus. This is the first report of a plant SINE family present in multiple lineages, and the evolution of Au SINE in the plant kingdom, especially in Gramineae and Fabaceae is discussed.
16830463	A high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method with solid-phase extraction was developed for screening of 12 sulfonyl urea herbicides in rice. The sample was cleaned up and extracted with ENVI-18 (C18) and ENVI-Carb (GCB) columns. The separation was performed on a Symmetryshield RP8 column (4.6 mm i.d. x 150 mm)with a linear gradient elution (acetonitrile and 5 mmol/L acetic acid as mobile phase), and the wavelength of an ultraviolet detector was set to 240 nm for the detection. The linear range was 0.1 - 10 mg/L, and the correlation coefficients were 0.9983-0.9999. Recoveries from rice samples spiked with 12 sulfonyl urea herbicides at spiking levels ranging from 0.01-0.50 microg/g were from 72.2% to 106.5%, with relative standard deviations from 0.6% to 6.4%. The lowest detection limits (S/N = 3) were 0.01-0.02 microg/g. The results indicate that the method is easier, faster, sensitive and has better purification effect. It also demonstrates that this multiresidue analytical method can meet the requirements for simultaneous determination of sulfonylurea herbicides in rice.
16831523	Populus trichocarpa (poplar) is distinguished from its herbaceous counterparts Arabidopsis and rice by its woody structure, perennial life cycle, and dioecious, two-whorled flowers. MADS-box genes are known to be involved in many important processes during plant development. Investigation of the poplar genome revealed 105 putative functional MADS-box genes and 12 pseudogenes. These numbers are comparable to those in Arabidopsis. However, poplar has 64 type II MADS-box genes, implying a higher birth rate when compared with Arabidopsis (64 vs.47). In addition to duplications for floral organ identity genes, TM3-like, StMADS11, ANR1 and Bs clades were significantly increased. As indicated by the phylogenetic analysis, there exist at least two MIKC* MADS-box genes in the poplar genome. In contrast, only 41 putative functional type I genes and 9 pseudogenes were found, suggesting that the poplar type I MADS-box genes have experienced a lower rate in both birth and death. Poplar MADS-box genes were distributed on all linkage groups (LGs), except LG XIX. Like other gene families, poplar MADS-box gene family has expanded through tandem gene duplication and segmental duplication events as demonstrated by two genomic regions where clustered MADS-box genes exhibited high similarities in the MADS-box domains. A survey of poplar EST sequences showed that MADS-box genes were expressed in wood and cambium tissues, which are specific to woody plants. The expression of common MADS-box gene in tree-specific tissues suggests that the novel function combinations of a set of genes similar to those in herbaceous plants may account for the development of woody characteristics in poplar.
16831847	Previous studies with 95 bread wheat doubled haploid lines (DHLs) from the cross Chinese Spring (CS)xSQ1 trialled over 24 yearxtreatmentxlocations identified major yield quantitative trait loci (QTLs) in homoeologous locations on 7AL and 7BL, expressed mainly under stressed and non-stressed conditions, respectively. SQ1 and CS contributed alleles increasing yield on 7AL and 7BL, respectively. The yield component most strongly associated with these QTLs was grains per ear. Additional results which focus on the 7AL yield QTL are presented here. Trials monitoring agronomic, morphological, physiological, and anatomical traits revealed that the 7AL yield QTL was not associated with differences in flowering time or plant height, but with significant differences in biomass at maturity and anthesis, biomass per tiller, and biomass during tillering. In some trials, flag leaf chlorophyll content and leaf width at tillering were also associated with the QTL. Thus, it is likely that the yield gene(s) on 7AL affects plant productivity. Near-isogenic lines (NILs) for the 7AL yield QTL with CS or SQ1 alleles in an SQ1 background showed the SQ1 allele to be associated with >20% higher yield per ear, significantly higher flag leaf chlorophyll content, and wider flag leaves. Epidermal cell width and distance between leaf vascular bundles did not differ significantly between NILs, so the yield-associated gene may influence the number of cell files across the leaf through effects on cell division. Interestingly, comparative mapping with rice identified AINTEGUMENTA and G-protein subunit genes affecting lateral cell division at locations homologous to the wheat 7AL yield QTL.
16832766
16833230	Mu-HPLC has previously been used to increase the resolution and sensitivity of protein separations but never for the analysis of soybean proteins. In this work, soybean proteins were, for the first time, separated using a capillary column with an internal diameter of 150 microm packed with a Genesis C18 stationary phase (4 microm, 300 angstroms) and UV detection. TFA and acetic acid were investigated as ion-pairing reagents in order to optimise water-ACN gradients to achieve this separation. The column showed good selectivity enabling the separation of soybean proteins from other vegetable proteins such as cereal (wheat, rice and corn) and also from milk proteins. The developed method was applied to the detection of soybean proteins in commercial products elaborated with mixtures of vegetable proteins.
16833415	We present the first direct study on the thermal unimolecular decomposition of allyl radicals. Experiments have been performed behind shock waves, and the experimental conditions covered temperatures ranging from 1125 K up to 1570 K and pressures between 0.25 and 4.5 bar. Allyl radicals have been generated by thermal decomposition of allyl iodide, and H-atom resonance absorption spectroscopy has been used to monitor the reaction progress. A marked pressure dependence of the rate constant has been observed which is in agreement with the results from a master equation analysis. However, our experimental results as well as our Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations seem to contradict the results of Deyerl et al. (J. Chem. Phys. 1999, 110, 1450) who investigated the unimolecular decomposition of allyl radicals upon photoexcitation and tried to deduce specific rate constants for the unimolecular dissociation in the electronic ground state. At pressures around 1 bar we extracted the following rate equation: k(T) = 5.3 x 10(79)(T/K)(-19.29) exp[(-398.9 kJ/mol)/RT] s(-1). The uncertainty of the rate constant calculated from this equation is estimated to be 30%.
16833758	In this article, we discuss in detail the addition of hydrogen atoms to diacetylene and the reverse dissociation reactions, H + C(4)H(2)<==>i-C(4)H(3) (R1) and H + C(4)H(2)<==>n-C(4)H(3) (R2). The theory utilizes high-level electronic structure methodology to characterize the potential energy surface, Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory to calculate microcanonical/J-resolved rate coefficients, and a two-dimensional master-equation approach to extract phenomenological (thermal) rate coefficients. Comparison is made with experimental results where they are available. The rate coefficients k1(T, p) and k2(T, p) are cast in forms that can be used in chemical kinetic modeling. In addition, we predict values of the heats of formation of i-C(4)H(3) and n-C(4)H(3) and discuss their importance in flame chemistry. Our basis-set extrapolated, quadratic-configuration-interaction with single and double excitations (and triple excitations added perturbatively), QCISD(T), predictions of these heats of formation at 298 K are 130.8 kcal/mol for n-C(4)H(3) and 119.3 kcal/mol for the i-isomer; multireference CI calculations with a nine-electron, nine-orbital, complete-active-space (CAS) reference wavefunction give just slightly larger values for these parameters. Our results are in good agreement with the recent focal-point analysis of Wheeler et al. (J. Chem. Phys. 2004, 121, 8800-8813), but they differ substantially for DeltaH0(f 298)(n-C(4)H(3)) with the earlier diffusion Monte Carlo predictions of Krokidis et al. (Int. J. Chem. Kinet.2001, 33, 808-820).
16834124	The cyclopentadienyl radical (cC(5)H(5)) is a fascinating molecule characterized by several peculiar properties, such as its high internal symmetry and resonance enhanced stability. This makes cC(5)H(5) one of the most abundant radicals present in high temperature gaseous environments, such as flames. Therefore it is generally considered an interesting candidate as the starting point of reaction pathways leading to the formation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and soot in combustion processes. However, known reaction pathways are not able to explain some recent experimental findings concerning the rapid conversion of cC(5)H(5) into C(7)H(7) and C(9)H(8) in the presence of acetylene. In this work, we used ab initio calculations and quantum Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (QRRK) theory to investigate the cC(5)H(5) + C(2)H(2) reaction kinetics. We found that cC(5)H(5) can add acetylene to form, through a fast and not previously known reaction, the heptatrienyl radical (cC(7)H(7)), which, in many ways, can be considered the superior homologue of cC(5)H(5). The calculated reaction kinetic constant is (2.2 x 10(11))exp(-6440/T(K)) cm(3) mol(-1) s(-1) and is in good agreement with experimental data, while that of the inverse process is (4.2 x 10(16))T(-1) exp(-30 850/T(K)) s(-1). In a successive reaction, cC(7)H(7) can add a second acetylene molecule to form indene, cC(9)H(8), and H. The forward and backward kinetic constants are (6.6 x 10(11))exp(-10 080/T(K)) and (4.2 x 10(14))exp(-27 300/T(K)) cm(3) mol(-1) s(-1), respectively. These two successive reactions, leading from a single C5 cycle to a bicyclic C5-C6 species, represent a new PAH growth mechanism, characterized by a C5-C7 ring enlargement reaction.
16834184	The unimolecular decomposition of ethylene oxide (oxirane) and the oxiranyl radial is examined by molecular orbital calculations, Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM)/Master Equation analysis, and detailed kinetic modeling of ethylene oxide pyrolysis in a single-pulse shock tube. It was found that the largest energy barrier to the decomposition of ethylene oxide lies in its initial isomerization to form acetaldehyde, and in agreement with previous studies, the isomerization was found to proceed through the *CH2CH2O* biradical. Because of the biradical nature of the transition states and intermediate, the energy barriers for the initial C-O rupture in ethylene oxide and the subsequent 1,2-H shift remain highly uncertain. An overall isomerization energy barrier of 59 +/- 2 kcal/mol was found to satisfactorily explain the available single pulse shock tube data. This barrier height is in line with the estimates made from an approximate spin-corrected procedure at the MP4/6-31+G(d) and QCISD(T)/6-31G(d) levels of theory. The dominant channel for the unimolecular decomposition of ethylene oxide was found to form CH3 + HCO at around the ambient pressure. It accounts for >90% of the total rate constant for T > 800 K. The high-pressure limit rate constant for the unimolecular decomposition of ethylene oxide was calculated as k(1,infinity)(s(-1)) = (3.74 x 10(10))T(1.298)e(-29990/T) for 600 < T < 2000 K.
16834253	Transesterification reactions and proton exchange reactions between acetate enolates and alcohols were studied both separately and together. Kinetic analysis shows that transesterification and proton exchange happen in a single collision event. The transesterification reaction is best viewed as an endothermic proton transfer, followed by an exchange of alkoxide and an exothermic proton transfer. Reaction barriers were modeled by Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory and compared to quantum calculations. CBS-QB3 achieves good agreement whereas B3LYP and MP2 give slightly higher barriers. Quantum calculations also predict that the transition state for these transesterification reactions is the same as that for direct transesterification reactions between alkoxides and esters.
16834280	The ab initio/Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) approach has been applied to investigate the photodissociation mechanism of azulene at 6.4 eV (the laser wavelength of 193 nm) upon absorption of one UV photon followed by internal conversion into the ground electronic state. Reaction pathways leading to various decomposition products have been mapped out at the G3(MP2,CC)//B3LYP level and then the RRKM and microcanonical variational transition state theories have been applied to compute rate constants for individual reaction steps. Relative product yields (branching ratios) for the dissociation products have been calculated using the steady-state approach. The results show that photoexcited azulene can readily isomerize to naphthalene and the major dissociation channel is elimination of an H-atom from naphthalene. The branching ratio of this channel decreases with an increase of the photon energy. Acetylene elimination is the second probable reaction channel and its branching ratio rises as the photon energy increases. The main C8H6 fragments at 193 nm are phenylacetylene and pentalene and the yield of the latter grows fast with the increasing excitation energy.
16835059	The postemergent herbicide propanil (PRN ; also known as 3,4-dichloropropionanilide) is used on rice and wheat crops and has well-known immunotoxic effects on various compartments of the immune system, including T-helper lymphocytes, B lymphocytes, and macrophages. It is unclear, however, whether PRN also adversely affects cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) , the primary (1 degrees) effectors of cell-mediated immunity. In this study we examined both the direct and indirect effects of PRN exposure on CTL activation and effector cell function to gauge its likely impact on cell-mediated immunity. Initial experiments addressed whether PRN alters the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) pathway for antigen processing and presentation by antigen-presenting cells (APCs) , thereby indirectly affecting effector function. These experiments demonstrated that PRN does not impair the activation of CTLs by PRN-treated APCs. Subsequent experiments addressed whether PRN treatment of CTLs directly inhibits their activation and revealed that 1 degrees alloreactive CTLs exposed to PRN are unimpaired in their proliferative response and only marginally inhibited in their lytic activity. Surprisingly, secondary stimulation of these alloreactive CTL effectors, however, even in the absence of further PRN exposure, resulted in complete abrogation of CTL lytic function and a delayed but significant long-term effect on CTL responsiveness. These findings may have important implications for the diagnosis and clinical management of anomalies of cell-mediated immunity resulting from environmental exposure to various herbicides and other pesticides.
16836095	This paper studied the grain quality and Q-enzyme activity of three rice varieties and their combinations as affected by air temperature and sink-source volume. The results showed that at the early stage of milk filling, the grains of fully milk filling under high temperature had a higher chalkiness, lower transparency, and lower rate of white rice. Compared with the grain of early-rice, that of late rice had higher gel consistency and transparency, and higher rate of white rice. Planting rice at early-or late season had no significant effect on the amylose and protein contents of rice grain. Leaf-cutting to limit source decreased grain quality markedly, while grain-thinning to decrease sink improved grain quality significantly.
16836098	In this paper, field experiment was conducted to analysis the canonical correlations of light and temperature with the yield and quality characters of F1 ecological populations of 54 hybrid rice breeds. The results showed that the yield and quality characters of the populations were significantly correlated with the accumulated temperature, effective accumulated temperature, extreme temperature difference, and sunshine length through the growth period of hybrid rice. The first canonical correlation coefficient (lambda1) between the light and temperature during vegetative growth stage and the yield characters was 0.9975, with the canonical information accounted for 99.96% of the total canonical information, leading to 99.50% of yield variation. Light and temperature affected the yield of hybrid rice mainly through their effects on the total and effective numbers of grains' spikelet and its fertility. In this aspect, accumulated and effective accumulated temperature played a determinative role during vegetative growth stage, while extreme temperature difference and sunshine length were the key factors during reproductive growth stage. As for the quality characters of hybrid rice, light and temperature mainly affected the percentage of polished to head rice, and in this aspect, accumulated and effective accumulated temperature played a determinative role before filling stage, while extreme temperature difference and sunshine length were the key factors after this
16836766	Floral scent is one of the important strategies for ensuring fertilization and for determining seed or fruit set. Research on plant scents has hampered mainly by the invisibility of this character, its dynamic nature, and complex mixtures of components that are present in very small quantities. Most progress in scent research, as in other areas of plant biology, has come from the use of molecular and biochemical techniques. Although volatile components have been identified in several orchid species, the biosynthetic pathways of orchid flower fragrance are far from understood. We investigated how flower fragrance was generated in certain Phalaenopsis orchids by determining the chemical components of the floral scent, identifying floral expressed-sequence-tags (ESTs), and deducing the pathways of floral scent biosynthesis in Phalaneopsis bellina by bioinformatics analysis. The main chemical components in the P. bellina flower were shown by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to be monoterpenoids, benzenoids and phenylpropanoids. The set of floral scent producing enzymes in the biosynthetic pathway from glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P) to geraniol and linalool were recognized through data mining of the P. bellina floral EST database (dbEST). Transcripts preferentially expressed in P. bellina were distinguished by comparing the scent floral dbEST to that of a scentless species, P. equestris, and included those encoding lipoxygenase, epimerase, diacylglycerol kinase and geranyl diphosphate synthase. In addition, EST filtering results showed that transcripts encoding signal transduction and Myb transcription factors and methyltransferase, in addition to those for scent biosynthesis, were detected by in silico hybridization of the P. bellina unigene database against those of the scentless species, rice and Arabidopsis. Altogether, we pinpointed 66% of the biosynthetic steps from G3P to geraniol, linalool and their derivatives. This systems biology program combined chemical analysis, genomics and bioinformatics to elucidate the scent biosynthesis pathway and identify the relevant genes. It integrates the forward and reverse genetic approaches to knowledge discovery by which researchers can study non-model plants.
16837535	Gene duplication has been recognized as a major route to supply raw sequences for genome novelty in evolution, but the mechanism underlying the retention of duplicate genes is not fully understood yet. Divergence in spatial expression patterns was investigated here and in response to stimuli of the four members of a rice proline-rich protein gene family (OsPRP1), which encode a class of proline-rich proteins. The four paralogues are tandemly organized within a 20 kbp range of chromosome 10 without any interval of other open reading frames and with a median K(S) value of 0.474. These paralogues showed little similarity in their regulatory regions but high conservation in coding regions. Search of an intergenomic cis-element database predicted their promoter regions with divergent cis-element fingerprints. Further expression analyses involving different tissues/organs and nine types of stimuli by a promoter::GUS-fusion strategy revealed that the four paralogues were expressed mainly in vascular cylinders of different organs and showed diversity in tissue/organ specificity and in response to these stimuli, with some overlapping expression. Furthermore, these data show that OsPRP1.2 appeared to inherit most of the functions from their multifunctional progenitor, whereas the other three genes diverged after duplication events. Thus, the retention of paralogues in a multigene family seems to require a more complicated diversification process than originally thought. In addition, the promoter::GUS strategy is a powerful way to explore function divergence of a tandem-repeat gene family.
16838296	Gene duplication has been considered the most important way of generating genetic novelties. The subsequent evolution right after gene duplication is critical for new function to occur. Here we analyzed the evolutionary pattern for a recently duplicated segment between rice chromosomes 11 and 12. This duplication event was estimated to occur about 6 million years ago, during the divergence of the B- and C-genome rice species. The duplicate segment in chromosome 12 has significantly higher frequency of sequence rearrangement rate than non-duplicated regions. The rearrangement rate is approximately 6.5 breakages/Mb per million years, about six times higher than the fastest rate ever reported in eukaryotes. The genes within both segments experienced accelerated nucleotide substitution rates revealed by synonymous (Ks) and non-synonymous divergence (Ka) between Oryza sativa indica and O. sativa japonica. Analysis using EST data also implicates rapid divergence in expression between these segmental duplicate genes. These overall rapid changes from different perspective for the first time provide evidence that relaxation of selection also occurs in large-scale duplications.
16838667
16838692	Evapotranspiration (ET) from irrigated land is one of the most useful indicators to explain whether the water is used as "intended". In this study, the Surface Energy Balance Algorithm for Land (SEBAL) was used to compute actual ET from a Landsat7 image of December 29, 2000 for diverse land use in the Krishna Basin in India. SEBAL ETa varies between 0 to 4.7 mm per day over the image and was quantified for identified land use classes. Seasonal/annual comparison of ETa from different land uses requires time series images, processed by SEBAL. In this study, the Landsat-derived snapshot SEBAL ETa result was interpreted using the cropping calendar and time series analysis of MODIS imagery. The wastewater irrigated area in the basin has the highest ETa in the image, partly due to its advanced growth stage compared to groundwater-irrigated rice. Shrub and forests in the senescence phase have similar ETa to vegetable/cash crops, and ETa from grasslands is a low 0.8 mm per day after the end of the monsoon. The results indicate that wastewater irrigation of fodder and rice is sufficient to meet crop water demand but there appears to be deficit irrigation of rice using groundwater.
16838697	An approach for computing the instantaneous unit hydrograph of rice agriculture dominated watesheds is proposed using the topology and hydraulic charcterstics of its stream network and the hydrologic behaviour of the rice agriculture area. The effect of rice agriculture on the watershed response is considered as partial sink areas. The sink factor, a time-variant weight factor for a particular storm event, is computed from the daily water balanace equation of the rice field. The critcal features of the simulated instantaneous unit hydrographs in three gauged watersheds located in the river Mahanadi, India were then compared with that of the observed 24-hr unit hydrograph. The comparison shows a significant correlation between the two results.
16838701	To predict rice-farming pesticide concentrations in river water with imprecise model inputs for screening-level analysis, a basin-scale runoff model was developed. The Monte Carlo method was applied to create estimates of input data regarding agricultural work schedules and parameters for pesticide decomposition and sorption in solids and water. The prediction accuracy of the model was evaluated when used with non-optimised pesticide parameters; the model was calibrated using hydrological data alone without reference to observed pesticide concentration data. Overall, predictions for the pesticide concentrations were successful within order-of-magnitude accuracy. The pesticide rankings according to the predicted concentration roughly agreed with those observed. The success of screening-level analysis indicates that the model prediction can help in selection of pesticides to be monitored and in determining the monitoring schedule for the river basin.
16839059	The thermal decomposition of formic acid was reinvestigated in the gas phase using two types of shock tubes. It was confirmed that the unimolecular decomposition proceeds through a main channel of dehydration (k1) and a minor decarboxylation channel (k2). This result is in good agreement with our previous study (J. Chem. Phys. 1984, 80, 4989). Furthermore, it was confirmed that the dehydration process is in the second-order region and that the decarboxylation is in the falloff region, in the temperature range of 1300-2000 K and over the total density of (0.5-2.5) x 10(-5) mol cm(-3). The experimental ratios between the two channels, k2/k1, are compared with those of theoretical calculations by conventional transition state theory and the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory.
16839594	Arsenic concentration in raw rice is not only the determinant in actual dietary exposure. Though there have been many reports on arsenic content in raw rice and different tissues of rice plant, little is known about arsenic content retained in cooked rice after being cooked following the traditional cooking methods employed by the people of arsenic epidemic areas. A field level experiment was conducted in Bangladesh to investigate the influence of cooking methods on arsenic retention in cooked rice. Rice samples were collected directly from a severely arsenic affected area and also from an unaffected area, to compare the results. Rice was cooked according to the traditional methods employed by the population of subjected areas. Arsenic concentrations were 0.40+/-0.03 and 0.58+/-0.12 mg/kg in parboiled rice of arsenic affected area, cooked with excess water and 1.35+/-0.04 and 1.59+/-0.07 mg/kg in gruel for BRRI dhan28 and BRRI hybrid dhan1, respectively. In non-parboiled rice, arsenic concentrations were 0.39+/-0.04 and 0.44+/-0.03 mg/kg in rice cooked with excess water and 1.62+/-0.07 and 1.74+/-0.05 mg/kg in gruel for BRRI dhan28 and BRRI hybrid dhan1, respectively. Total arsenic content in rice, cooked with limited water (therefore gruel was absorbed completely by rice) were 0.89+/-0.07 and 1.08+/-0.06 mg/kg (parboiled) and 0.75+/-0.04 and 1.09+/-0.06 mg/kg (non-parboiled) for BRRI dhan28 and BRRI hybrid dhan1, respectively. Water used for cooking rice contained 0.13 and 0.01 mg of As/l for contaminated and non-contaminated areas, respectively. Arsenic concentrations in cooked parboiled and non-parboiled rice and gruel of non-contaminated area were significantly lower (p<0.01) than that of contaminated area. The results imply that cooking of arsenic contaminated rice with arsenic contaminated water increases its concentration in cooked rice.
16839801	Silicon (Si) accumulation differs greatly between plant species because of differences in Si uptake by the roots. Recently, a gene encoding a Si uptake transporter in rice, a typical Si-accumulating plant, was isolated. The beneficial effects of Si are mainly associated with its high deposition in plant tissues, enhancing their strength and rigidity. However, Si might play an active role in enhancing host resistance to plant diseases by stimulating defense reaction mechanisms. Because many plants are not able to accumulate Si at high enough levels to be beneficial, genetically manipulating the Si uptake capacity of the root might help plants to accumulate more Si and, hence, improve their ability to overcome biotic and abiotic stresses.
16841460	Sulphitation pressmud (SPM) and its composts were prepared by heap, pit, NADEP and vermicomposting methods and their effects were compared with soil properties and growth, yield and nutrient uptake by rice in a sodic soil under pot conditions. Application of 15 t ha(-1) SPM and its different composts significantly increased the plant height and dry matter accumulation at different intervals, grain and straw yields and N, P and K uptake by the crop over the control. NADEP compost of SPM alone recorded the maximum and significant plant height by 8.5 to 19.3% and plant dry matter by 14.6 to 32.8% over the raw SPM at different intervals. NADEP composts of SPM alone and SPM + rice straw were also found to be superior than raw SPM by recording 34.8 and 27.8% more grain yield respectively. The SPM composts prepared by NADEP and SPM by vermicomposting methods significantly accumulated higher N and K in rice grains and straw, while NADEP compost of SPM and SPM + rice straw recorded more P in grains and straw than raw SPM. Application of SPM and its composts reduced the pH, EC and bulk density of the soil after rice harvesting, though the reductions were not significant in comparison to the control. However, these treatments increased the soil organic C by 33.33 to 69.0%, available N by 41.4 to 74.8%, available P by 47.1 to 97.8%, available K by 11.8 to 59.2% and available S by 10.3 to 90.7% over the control. NADEP composts, in general, were found to be superior than the raw SPM and other composts in residual soil nutrient content after rice crop.
16841747	Egypt produces approximately 2.4 million m3 of secondary treated wastewater (TWW) annually, used for irrigation directly or indirectly by blending with agricultural drainage water (BDW). The annual re-use of (BDW) is approximately 4 million m3. The safe and efficient use of marginal water (BDW and TWW) is a core objective of this study which has been operating from 1997 to date. After six growing seasons the main results can be summarized as follows: MAXIMIZING CROP PRODUCTION: TWW can be used for high production of oil crops (canola, soybean sunflower or maize) compared to fresh water, while BDW can be used for high production of tolerant crops (cotton and sugar beet). CROP QUALITY: using marginal water increases the concentration of elements (Pb, B, Ni, Co) in all crops but these elements were under critical levels (there were no toxicity hazards). It is better to use alternative irrigation with fresh water under a drip irrigation system to maximise crop production and minimise the adverse effects of such water in field crops quality. SOIL POLLUTION AND SALINITY BUILD UP: A drip irrigation system under alternative irrigation by fresh with TWW or BDW reduces salinity build up risks and the levels of elements (Pb, B, Ni, Co) in soil compared to re-use marginal water. SOIL PATHOGENS: Using marginal water slightly contaminated the soil with total faecal coliform (TFC), mites, shigella and salmonella. PLANT ANATOMY: No great changes in anatomical disturbance where induced in different structures of plants which were reduced at maturity stage. PRIMARY GUIDELINES FOR RE-USING MARGINAL WATER: From obtained results it can be recommended to use marginal water with salinity content ranged between 1.1 to 3.64dS/m, and elemental contents (Pb 3.0-3.51 ppm), (B 0.05-1.67 ppm), (Co 0.04-0.07 ppm), (Ni 0.08-0.15 ppm) for safe (field, vegetable and medicinal) crops production. REUSE BIO SOLIDS FOR CROP PRODUCTION: Sewage sludge produced from treated wastewater can be safely used by mixing with rice straw (1:1 w/w) for economic crop production and saving mineral fertilisers. GENERAL CONCLUSION: In the North Nile Delta, marginal water (especially BDW) can be safely used without significant negative impact on the environment, but there is a need for multi-disciplinary, long-term research to investigate irrigation with marginal water in terms of the environment, public health and agricultural productivity.
16842621	Many mitochondrial genes, especially ribosomal protein genes, have been frequently transferred as functional entities to the nucleus during plant evolution, often by an RNA-mediated process. A notable case of transfer involves the rps14 gene of three grasses (rice, maize, and wheat), which has been relocated to the intron of the nuclear sdh2 gene and which is expressed and targeted to the mitochondrion via alternative splicing and usage of the sdh2 targeting peptide. Although this transfer occurred at least 50 million years ago, i.e., in a common ancestor of these three grasses, it is striking that expressed, nearly intact pseudogenes of rps14 are retained in the mitochondrial genomes of both rice and wheat. To determine how ancient this transfer is, the extent to which mitochondrial rps14 has been retained and is expressed in grasses, and whether other transfers of rps14 have occurred in grasses and their relatives, we investigated the structure, expression, and phylogeny of mitochondrial and nuclear rps14 genes from 32 additional genera of grasses and from 9 other members of the Poales. Filter hybridization experiments showed that rps14 sequences are present in the mitochondrial genomes of all examined Poales except for members of the grass subfamily Panicoideae (to which maize belongs). However, PCR amplification and sequencing revealed that the mitochondrial rps14 genes of all examined grasses (Poaceae), Cyperaceae, and Joinvilleaceae are pseudogenes, with all those from the Poaceae sharing two 4-NT frameshift deletions and all those from the Cyperaceae sharing a 5-NT insertion (only one member of the Joinvilleaceae was examined). cDNA analysis showed that all mitochondrial pseudogenes examined (from all three families) are transcribed, that most are RNA edited, and that surprisingly many of the edits are reverse (U-->C) edits. Putatively nuclear copies of rps14 were isolated from one to several members of each of these three Poales families. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that the nuclear genes are probably the products of three independent transfers. The rps14 gene has, most likely, been functionally transferred from the mitochondrion to the nucleus at least three times during the evolution of the Poales. The transfers in Cyperaceae and Poaceae are relatively ancient, occurring in the common ancestor of each family, roughly 80 million years ago, whereas the putative Joinvilleaceae transfer may be the most recent case of functional organelle-to-nucleus transfer yet described in any organism. Remarkably, nearly intact and expressed pseudogenes of rps14 have persisted in the mitochondrial genomes of most lineages of Poaceae and Cyperaceae despite the antiquity of the transfers and of the frameshift and RNA editing mutations that mark the mitochondrial genes as pseudogenes. Such long-term, nearly pervasive survival of expressed, apparent pseudogenes is to our knowledge unparalleled in any genome. Such survival probably reflects a combination of factors, including the short length of rps14, its location immediately downstream of rpl5 in most plants, and low rates of nucleotide substitutions and indels in plant mitochondrial DNAs. Their survival also raises the possibility that these rps14 sequences may not actually be pseudogenes despite their appearance as such. Overall, these findings indicate that intracellular gene transfer may occur even more frequently in angiosperms than already recognized and that pseudogenes in plant mitochondrial genomes can be surprisingly resistant to forces that lead to gene loss and inactivation.
16842786	The kinase activity of a Ca(2+)/calmodulin (CaM)-binding serine/threonine protein kinase from rice (Oryza sativa) (OsCBK) has been reported to be unaffected by OsCaM1 binding. In this study, we examined whether other rice CaMs can stimulate OsCBK. It was observed that OsCaM61 stimulated OsCBK in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. In addition, Ala(111), Gly(123) and Ser(127) were identified as critical residues for OsCBK activation. Mutational study and fluorescent spectroscopy analysis indicated that CaM-binding affinity does not correlate with the kinase activity and that these key amino-acids in OsCaM61 play a vital role in suitable changes of OsCBK conformation for kinase activation.
16842898	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a staple food worldwide for centuries. In this study, the growth-inhibiting and immunopotentiating effects of commonly used rice were examined. The growth of human leukemic U937 cells was significantly inhibited by the peripheral blood mononuclear cell-conditioned medium (MNC-CM) derived from water extracts of Japonica rice milled Taiwan 9 (MT9) and brown Taiwan 9 (BT9). Furthermore, these MNC-CMs induced differentiation of U937 cells into mature monocytes/macrophages expressing superoxide-producing and phagocytic activity. The amounts of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma in MNC-CMs prepared with MT9 and BT9 were greater than normal MNC-CM. However, growth of U937 cells was not inhibited by normal MNC-CM or rice extracts alone. The possible active components of MT9 and BT9, other than PHA-like glycoproteins and heat-sensitive proteins and lipopolysaccharides, remain to be determined. Our results demonstrate that MT9 and BT9 can inhibit growth and induce differentiation of leukemic U937 cells through activation of human peripheral blood MNC in vitro. These two types of rice as energy-providing food could be biological response modifiers for augmenting anti-leukemia immunity.
16843033	The rice genome has now been sequenced using whole-genome-shotgun and map-based methods. The relative merits of the two methods are the subject of debate, as they were in the human genome project. In this Opinion article, we will show that the serious discrepancies between the resultant sequences are mostly found in the large transposable elements such as copia and gypsy that populate the intergenic regions of plant genomes. Differences in published gene counts and polymorphism rates are similarly resolved by considering how transposable elements affect the sequence analysis.
16843620	A comparative analysis on protein kinases encoded in the completely sequenced genomes of two plant species, namely Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa spp japonica cv. Nipponbare is reported in the current study. We have analysed 836 and 1386 kinases identified from A. thaliana and the O. sativa genomes respectively. Their classification into known subfamilies reveals selective expansions of the plant receptor kinase subfamily comprising of Ser/Thr receptor kinases. The presence of calcium dependent kinases, and potential absence of cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinase of the type found in other (non-plant) eukaryotes, are other notable features of the two plant kinomes described here. An analysis on domain organisation of each of the protein kinases encoded in the plant genome has been carried out. Uncommon composition of functional domains like nuclear translocation factor domain, redox sensor domain (PAS), ACT and lectin domains are observed in few protein kinases shared between the two plant species. Biochemical functions characteristic of the domains recruited in these protein kinase gene products suggest their mode of regulation by alternate cellular localisation, oxidation potential, amino acid flux and binding of carbohydrates. Occurrence of multi-functional kinases with diverse enzymatic modules, such as Transposases and peptidases, tethered to the kinase catalytic domain is another interesting feature of the protein kinase complement of the O. sativa genome. Co-occurrence of diverse nucleotide and carbohydrate binding domains with catalytic kinase domain containing gene products has also been observed. Putative homologues of protein kinases of A. thaliana that regulate plant-specific physiological processes like ethylene hormone response, somatic embryogenesis and pathogen defence have been identified in O. sativa genome as well.
16844189	A pot experiment with 38 commonly cultured rice cultivars showed that the effect of Cu (100 mg kg(-1)) on rice growth, grain yield and accumulation of Cu in brown rice varied greatly with different cultivars. Although the average Cu concentration in brown rice of the 38 cultivars was significantly increased (P<0.01) compared with the control, in none of the cultivars did Cu concentration in brown rice exceed the maximum permissible limit of 10 mg Cu kg(-1). This suggests that rice grown in Cu-contaminated paddy soil (100 mg Cu kg(-1)) will not adversely affect human health through the food chain. Because of the significant negative correlation between grain weight and Cu concentration in brown rice with the soil Cu treatment, screening for cultivars with low Cu accumulation in brown rice and high grain yield for Cu-contaminated areas is feasible. The present research led to the recommendation of three such cultivars: Jiahua, Zhenxian 866, Zhe 733. The average grain yield under Cu treatment (100 mg Cu kg(-1) soil) was significantly (P<0.01) reduced compared with the control. The decreases or increases of grain yields mainly resulted from the combined effects of the panicles per pot, spikelets per panicle and filled spikelets per panicle under the soil Cu treatment. Furthermore, there were significant (r=0.869, P<0.01) positive correlations between the RC (relative changes) of spikelets per panicle and filled spikelets per panicle under the soil Cu treatment.
16844369	The present study aimed at optimization of culture condition for the enhanced production of extra cellular thermostable cellulase-free xylanase from Bacillus pumilus by solid-state fermentation. Batch studies were carried out to evaluate various agro-industrial residues such as rice bran, rice husk, rice straw, sawdust, coconut pith, sugarcane bagasse and wheat bran for enzyme production by the bacterial culture. The endoxylanase production was highest on wheat bran media (5582 U/gds), which was enhanced 3.8-fold (21,431 U/gds) by optimization of cultivation conditions. The enzymatic extracts was used in mixed wastepaper recycling, which resulted in a considerable improvement of the paper strength with high drainage and easy drying up. The results of enzyme application with recycled paper clearly indicated that the effective use of enzymes in fiber separation could reduce the cost of carton paper production.
16844829	Rhizobial Nod factors are key symbiotic signals responsible for starting the nodulation process in host legume plants. Of the six Medicago truncatula genes controlling a Nod factor signaling pathway, Nod Factor Perception (NFP) was reported as a candidate Nod factor receptor gene. Here, we provide further evidence for this by showing that NFP is a lysin [corrected] motif (LysM)-receptor-like kinase (RLK). NFP was shown both to be expressed in association with infection thread development and to be involved in the infection process. Consistent with deviations from conserved kinase domain sequences, NFP did not show autophosphorylation activity, suggesting that NFP needs to associate with an active kinase or has unusual functional characteristics different from classical kinases. Identification of nine new M. truncatula LysM-RLK genes revealed a larger family than in the nonlegumes Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) or rice (Oryza sativa) of at least 17 members that can be divided into three subfamilies. Three LysM domains could be structurally predicted for all M. truncatula LysM-RLK proteins, whereas one subfamily, which includes NFP, was characterized by deviations from conserved kinase sequences. Most of the newly identified genes were found to be expressed in roots and nodules, suggesting this class of receptors may be more extensively involved in nodulation than was previously known.
16845012	Unified, structured vocabularies and classifications freely provided by the Gene Ontology (GO) Consortium are widely accepted in most of the large scale gene annotation projects. Consequently, many tools have been created for use with the GO ontologies. WEGO (Web Gene Ontology Annotation Plot) is a simple but useful tool for visualizing, comparing and plotting GO annotation results. Different from other commercial software for creating chart, WEGO is designed to deal with the directed acyclic graph structure of GO to facilitate histogram creation of GO annotation results. WEGO has been used widely in many important biological research projects, such as the rice genome project and the silkworm genome project. It has become one of the daily tools for downstream gene annotation analysis, especially when performing comparative genomics tasks. WEGO, along with the two other tools, namely External to GO Query and GO Archive Query, are freely available for all users at http://wego.genomics.org.cn. There are two available mirror sites at http://wego2.genomics.org.cn and http://wego.genomics.com.cn. Any suggestions are welcome at wego@genomics.org.cn.
16845479	Construction of introgression lines using cultivated rice as recipient and wild rice is a novel approach to explore primitive and broad genetic resources in rice breeding. We recently generated a set of 159 introgression lines via a backcrossing program using an elite Indica cultivar rice Guichao 2 (O. sativa L. ssp. indica) as recipient and a common wild rice Dongxiang accession (O. rufipogon Griff.) as donor. In this study, we have evaluated the previously constructed 159 introgression lines for drought-tolerance. A total of 12 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) related to drought tolerance were mapped. Furthermore, a drought tolerant introgression line, IL23, was identified and characterized. Genotype analysis of IL23 demonstrated that IL23 contained two QTLs associated with drought tolerance, qSDT2-1 and qSDT12-2, which were located on chromosome 2 and 12 within the two introgressed segments derived from the common wild rice, respectively. Physiological characterization, including measurement of water loss, osmotic potential, electrolytical leakage, MDA content, soluble sugars content and the leaf temperature, revealed that IL23 showed the characteristics associated with drought tolerance. Identification and characterization of IL23 would provide a useful basis for isolation of novel genes associated with drought tolerance and for molecular breeding of drought tolerant rice. Furthermore, the results in this study indicated that construction of introgression lines from common wild rice should be an appropriate approach to obtain favorable genetic materials.
16845480	Abscisic acid (ABA) is one of the central plant hormones, responsible for controlling both maturation and germination in seeds, as well as mediating adaptive responses to desiccation, injury, and pathogen infection in vegetative tissues. Thorough analyses of two barley genes, HVA1 and HVA22, indicate that their response to ABA relies on the interaction of two cis-acting elements in their promoters, an ABA response element (ABRE) and a coupling element (CE). Together, they form an ABA response promoter complex (ABRC). Comparison of promoters of barley HVA1 and it rice orthologue indicates that the structures and sequences of their ABRCs are highly similar. Prediction of ABA responsive genes in the rice genome is then tractable to a bioinformatics approach based on the structures of the well-defined barley ABRCs. Here we describe a model developed based on the consensus, inter-element spacing and orientations of experimentally determined ABREs and CEs. Our search of the rice promoter database for promoters that fit the model has generated a partial list of genes in rice that have a high likelihood of being involved in the ABA signaling network. The ABA inducibility of some of the rice genes identified was validated with quantitative reverse transcription PCR (QPCR). By limiting our input data to known enhancer modules and experimentally derived rules, we have generated a high confidence subset of ABA-regulated genes. The results suggest that the pathways by which cereals respond to biotic and abiotic stresses overlap significantly, and that regulation is not confined to the level transcription. The large fraction of putative regulatory genes carrying HVA1-like enhancer modules in their promoters suggests the ABA signal enters at multiple points into a complex regulatory network that remains largely unmapped.
16845530	During anaerobiosis in darkness the main route for ATP production in plants is through glycolysis in combination with fermentation. We compared the organ-specific anaerobic fermentation of flooding-tolerant rice (Oryza sativa) and sensitive wheat (Triticum aestivum) seedlings. A sensitive laser-based photoacoustic trace gas detection system was used to monitor emission of ethanol and acetaldehyde by roots and shoots of intact seedlings. Dark-incubated rice seedlings released 3 times more acetaldehyde and 14 times more ethanol than wheat seedlings during anaerobiosis. Ninety percent of acetaldehyde originated from shoots of both species. In comparison to wheat shoots, the high ethanol production of rice shoots correlated with larger amounts of soluble carbohydrates, and higher activities of fermentative enzymes. After 24 h of anaerobiosis in darkness rice shoots still contained 30% of aerated ATP level, which enabled seedlings to survive this period. In contrast, ATP content declined almost to zero in wheat shoots and roots, which were irreversibly damaged after a 24-h anaerobic period. When plants were anaerobically and dark incubated for 4 h and subsequently transferred back to aeration, shoots showed a transient peak of acetaldehyde release indicating prompt re-oxidation of ethanol. Post-anoxic acetaldehyde production was lower in rice seedlings than in wheat. This observation accounts for a more effective acetaldehyde detoxification system in rice. Compared to wheat the greater tolerance of rice seedlings to transient anaerobic periods is explained by a faster fermentation rate of their shoots allowing a sufficient ATP production and an efficient suppression of toxic acetaldehyde formation in the early re-aeration period.
16845824	A gene encoding a mannose-binding lectin, Pinellia pedatisecta agglutinin (PPA), was isolated from leaves of Pinellia pedatisecta using genomic walker technology. The ppa contained an 1140-bp 5'-upstream region, a 771-bp open reading frame (ORF) and an 829-bp 3'-downstream region. The ORF encoded a precursor polypeptide of 256 amino acid residues with a 24-amino acid signal peptide. There were one putative TATA box and six possible CAAT boxes lying in the 5'-upstream region of ppa. The ppa showed significant similarity at the nucleic acid level with genes encoding mannose-binding lectins from other Araceae species such as Pinellia ternata, Arisaema hererophyllum, Colocasia esculenta and Arum maculatum. At the amino acid level, PPA also shared varying homology (ranging from 40% to 85%) with mannose-binding lectins from other plant species, such as those from Araceae, Alliaceae, Iridaceae, Lillaceae, Amaryllidaceae and Bromeliaceae. The cloning of the ppa gene not only provides a basis for further investigation of PPA's structure, expression and regulation mechanism, but also enables us to test its potential role in controlling pests and fungal diseases by transferring the gene into tobacco and rice in the future.
16845825	The ribosomal DNA (45S rDNA) behaviors during the cell cycle were analyzed on interphase nuclei, prophases, metaphases, pachytene chromosomes and extended DNA fibers in rice (Oryza, sativa ssp. indica cv. Guangluai No.4) by using high-resolution fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). The results show that 45S rDNA is located at the ends of short arms of chromosomes 9 and 10. But the signals are much more intense on chromosome 9 than on chromosome 10 in metaphase. Pachytene chromosome has rDNA signal arrays on chromosome 9. Different phases are described and discussed. These results indicate that the activity ofrDNA at individual loci may also vary through the cell cycle in rice. On extended DNA fibers, 45S rDNA signals appear as strings of numerous red spots, but some signals are missed in some regions, probably result from weak signals or intergenic spacers.
16847566	Belonging to Class II of transposable elements, En/Spm transposons are widespread in a variety of distantly related plant species. Here, we report on the sequence conservation of the transposase region from sequence analyses of En/Spm-like transposons from Poaceae species, namely Zingeria biebersteiniana, Zingeria trichopoda, Triticum monococcum, Triticum urartu, Hordeum spontaneum, and Aegilops speltoides. The transposase region of En/Spm-like transposons was cloned, sequenced, and compared with equivalent regions of Oryza and Arabidopsis from the gene bank database. Southern blot analysis indicated that the En/Spm transposon was present in low (Hordeum spontaneum, Triticum monococcum, Triticum urartu) through medium (Zingeria bieberstiana, Zingeria trichopoda) to relatively high (Aegilops speltoides) copy numbers in Poaceae species. A cytogenetic analysis of the chromosomal distribution of En/Spm transposons revealed the concurence of the chromosomal localization of the En/Spm clusters with mobile clusters of rDNA. An analysis of En/Spm-like transposase amino acid sequences was carried out to investigate sequence divergence between 5 genera--Triticum, Aegilops, Zingeria, Oryza and Arabidopsis. A distance matrix was generated; apparently, En/Spm-like transposase sequences shared the highest sequence homology intra-generically and, as expected, these sequences were significantly diverged from those of O. sativa and A. thaliana. A sequence comparison of En/Spm-like transposase coding regions defined that the intra-genomic complex of En/Spm-like transposons could be viewed as relatively independent, vertically transmitted, and permanently active systems inside higher plant genomes. The sequence data from this article was deposited in the EMBL/GenBank Data Libraries under the accession nos. AY707995-AY707996-AY707997-AY707998-AY707999-AY708000-AY708001-AY708002-AY708003-AY708004-AY708005-AY708005-AY265312.
16847662	The grass inflorescence is the primary food source for humanity, and has been repeatedly shaped by human selection during the domestication of different cereal crops. Of all major cultivated cereals, sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] shows the most striking variation in inflorescence architecture traits such as branch number and branch length, but the genetic basis of this variation is little understood. To study the inheritance of inflorescence architecture in sorghum, 119 recombinant inbred lines from an elite by exotic cross were grown in three environments and measured for 15 traits, including primary, secondary, and tertiary inflorescence branching. Eight characterized genes that are known to control inflorescence architecture in maize (Zea mays L.) and other grasses were mapped in sorghum. Two of these candidate genes, Dw3 and the sorghum ortholog of ramosa2, co-localized precisely with QTL of large effect for relevant traits. These results demonstrate the feasibility of using genomic and mutant resources from maize and rice (Oryza sativa L.) to investigate the inheritance of complex traits in related cereals.
16847817	A series of N-alkyl chitosan (NAC) derivatives were synthesized using a reductive alkylation reaction to examine their fungicidal and insecticidal activity. The chemical structures were characterized by IR and (1)H NMR spectroscopy, and the degree of substitution (DS) ranged from 0.02 to 0.37. Their fungicidal activity was evaluated against the grey mould Botrytis cinerea Pers ex Fr (Leotiales: Sclerotiniaceae) and the rice leaf blast pathogen Pyricularia grisea Sacc [Teleomorph: Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) Barr] by a radial growth bioassay. It was of interest that most of the NAC derivatives were more active against both fungi than chitosan itself. The most active derivative was N-(2,2-diphenylethyl)chitosan with EC50 values of 0.031 and 0.23 g L(-1) against B. cinerea and P. grisea respectively. In addition, some derivatives, at higher concentrations up to 1.0 g L(-1), inhibited the mycelial growth and spore formation of P. grisea. Bioassays against larvae of the cotton leafworm, Spodoptera littoralis (Boisd.) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) with the NAC derivatives at a rate of 5.0 g kg(-1) in artificial diet demonstrated that N-(3-phenylbutyl)chitosan was the most active compound. In addition, N-propylchitosan, N-undecanylchitosan and N-(3-phenylpropyl)chitosan derivatives strongly inhibited larval weight gain in S. littoralis, with respective reductions of 76, 66 and 65% after 4 days of feeding on treated diet.
16847836	The aim of the current work was to assess the removal of direct and reactive dyes using biotic and abiotic agents. Removal of dyes and their derivatives from aqueous solutions was investigated using sugarcane bagasse, sawdust, rice straw, charcoal and fungal biomass as dye removing agents. Seven fungal strains known to have high capacity in removing textile dyes were used. Results of this study indicated that Penicillium commune, P. freii, and P. allii removed 96, 64 and 65%, respectively, of direct violet dye after two hours of incubation. In addition, the use of rice straw was shown to be more efficient in dye removal, than was bagasse or sawdust. Rice straw was effective in removing 72% of direct violet dye within 24 hours. However, with reactive dyes, removal activity was reduced to 27%. Similar trends were recorded with the other tested biotic agents, fast removal of reactive dye was not found after 48 hours of contact time. Results of this study indicate that low-cost, renewable, bioadsorption agents are relatively effective in removing textile dyes from solution.
16848528	Liquors from rice husk autohydrolyis, containing xylooligosaccharides, other saccharides, and nonsaccharide compounds, were subjected to two selected processing schemes to increase the proportion of substituted xylooligosaccharides in refined liquors. Nanofiltration through a ceramic membrane with a molecular mass cutoff of 1000 Da allowed simultaneous concentration and purification; this latter derived from the preferential removal of monosaccharides and nonsaccharide compounds. When liquors were nanofiltered to achieve a volume reduction factor of 5 operating at a transmembrane pressure of 14 bar, 58.6% of the nonsaccharide components and 20.9-46.9% of monosaccharides were kept in retentate, in comparison with 92% of xylooligosaccharides and glucooligosaccharides. When nanofiltered liquors were subjected to double ion-exchange processing, a final product with a nonsaccharide content near 9 kg/100 kg of nonvolatile components was obtained at a yield of 10.90 kg/100 kg oven dry rice husks. Alternatively, when nanofiltered liquors were subjected to ethyl acetate extraction and further double ion-exchange processing, a purified product with a nonsaccharide content of 5.66 kg/100 kg of nonvolatile components was obtained at a yield of 9.94 kg/100 kg oven dry rice husks. The nonsaccharide components remaining in the final concentrate were mainly made up of phenolic and nitrogen-containing compounds.
16849376	Previous studies have shown that transgenic rice plants overexpressing YK1, which possesses dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) activity, showed biotic and abiotic stress tolerance. High throughput profiles of metabolites have also been shown in such transgenic plants by Fourier transform ion cyclotron mass spectrometry. In this study, capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry analysis (CE/MS) was employed to identify precise metabolites such as organic acids, amino acids and sugars. Using CE/MS, we analysed several metabolites of glycolysis, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and the pentose phosphate pathway. In addition, the concentrations of sugars and ion were quantified. In YK1 (DFR)-overexpressing plants, the concentrations of cis-aconitate, isocitrate and 2-oxoglutarate were higher in leaves, whereas those of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate were lower in roots. In seeds, the amounts of free amino acids and metals were altered, whereas sugars in seeds were kept constant. In YK1 calli, an approx. 3-fold increase in glutathione was observed, whereas the activities of glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase were concomitantly increased. The overexpression of YK1 (DFR) was associated with slight changes in the amounts of several metabolites analysed in whole plants, whilst glutathione derivatives were substantially increased in suspension-cultured cells.
16850192	We isolated and identified a full-length cDNA, OsBISAMT1 [Oryza sativa L. benzothiadiazole (BTH)-induced SAMT 1], which encodes a putative S-adenosyl-L: -methionine:salicylic acid carboxyl methyltransferase (SAMT) from rice. OsBISAMT1 contains an ORE of 1128 bp, which predicts to encode a 375 aa protein. The OsBISAMT1 protein sequence shows a high level of identity to known plant SAMTs and contains a conserved characteristic methyltransferase domain. OsBISAMT1 is a member of a small gene family in the rice genome. Expression of OsBISAMT1 in rice leaves was induced by treatments with benzothiadiazole and salicylic acid, which are capable of inducing rice disease resistance. OsBISAMT1 was also up-regulated in both incompatible and compatible interactions between rice and the blast fungus, Magnaporthe grsiea, but the induced expression of OsBISAMT1 was greater and more rapid in the incompatible interaction than that in the compatible one. Moreover, mechanical wounding also activated OsBISAMT1 expression. The results suggest that OsBISAMT1 may be involved in disease resistance responses as well as in wound response in rice.
16850233	Pollen abortion is one of the major reasons causing the inter-subspecific F(1) hybrid sterility in rice and is due to allelic interaction of F(1) pollen sterility genes. The microsporogenesis and microgametogenesis of Taichung 65 and its three F(1) hybrids were comparatively studied by using techniques of differential interference contrast microscopy, semi-thin section light microscopy, epifluorescence microscopy and TEM. The results showed that there were differences among the cytological mechanisms of pollen abortion due to allelic interaction at the three F(1) pollen sterility loci. The allelic interaction at S-a locus resulted in microspores unable to extend the protoplasm membrane with the enlargement of the microspore at the middle microspore stage and finally producing empty abortive pollen. The allelic interaction at S-b locus caused asynchronous development of microspores at the middle microspore stage producing stainable abortive pollen. The allelic interaction at S-c locus mainly led to the non-dissolution of the generative cell wall and finally caused the hybrid F(1) mainly producing stainable abortive pollen. Genotypic identification indicated that the abortive pollen were those with S (j) allele.
16850315	A quantitative trait locus (QTL) for grain weight (GW) was detected near SSR marker RM210 on chromosome 8 in backcross populations derived from a cross between the Korean japonica cultivar Hwaseongbyeo and Oryza rufipogon (IRGC 105491). The O. rufipogon allele increased GW in the Hwaseongbyeo background despite the fact that O. rufipogon was the small-seeded parent. Using sister BC(3)F(3) near-isogenic lines (NILs), gw8.1 was validated and mapped to a 6.1 cM region in the interval between RM42 and RM210 (P < or = 0.0001). Substitution mapping with eight BC(3)F(4) sub-NILs further narrowed the interval containing gw8.1 to about 306.4 kb between markers RM23201.CNR151 and RM30000.CNR99. A yield trial using homozygous BC(3)F(4) sister sub-NILs and the Hwaseongbyeo recurrent parent indicated that the NIL carrying an O. rufipogon chromosome segment across the entire gw8.1 target region out-yielded its sister NIL (containing Hwaseongbyeo chromosome in the RM42-RM210 interval) by 9% (P=0.029). The higher-yielding NIL produced 19.3% more grain than the Hwaseongbyeo recurrent parent (P=0.018). Analysis of a BC(3)F(4) NIL indicated that the variation for GW is associated with variation in grain shape, specifically grain length. The locus, gw8.1 is of particular interest because of its independence from undesirable height and grain quality traits. SSR markers tightly linked to the GW QTL will facilitate cloning of the gene underlying this QTL as well as marker-assisted selection for variation in GW in an applied breeding program.
16850852	The vertical distribution of heavy metals in soils profiles is a result of heavy metals accumulation and migration under combining influence of edaphic factors and environmental conditions. It's an important basis for evaluation of heavy metals pollution and remediation of contaminated soils. By traditional sampling methods, i.e., soils were sampled according to pedogenetic horizons, only very general information about element migration can be learned. In the current study, three sites near a steel factory were selected to represent three types of land use, i.e. forest, dry land for vegetable cultivation and rice paddy field. Soils were sampled horizontally by high-resolution sampling method. In the top of 40 cm soils were sectioned in 2 cm intervals, then 5 cm intervals in next 40 cm, and 10 cm intervals in the last 20 cm of profile. Total content of Cu, Zn, Pb, Cr and Cd were determined, and the vertical distribution of Cu, Zn, Pb, Cr, Cd in every profile was analyzed. The results indicated that enrichment of heavy metals appeared in the upper most layer of the natural forest soil that without any anthropic disturbance, and this phenomenon proved that heavy metals were coming from atmospheric deposition. We found that Cu, Zn and Pb moved downward in a short distance, Cd migrated relatively faster than Cu, Zn and Pb, while Cr had no recognizable location of migration front. In the soil profiles of dry land and paddy field, there were influences of agricultural practice, the distribution and movement of metals were thus different form those of the forest soil. In cultivated layer heavy metals were evenly distributed because soils in the upper layer were mixed by cultivation, however, bellow the cultivated layer obvious migration took place again. It is concluded that different heavy metals have different mobility and there is such a relative order: Cd>Cu>Zn>Pb. The study shows that the distribution pattern can be obtained with the currently adopted high-resolution sampling method, than traditional horizon sampling, and more precise migration distance and rates can be estimated.
1685335	Charleston, South Carolina, USA has a rich history extending over 300 years. The plantations of the Carolina Low Country produced rice, indigo and cotton. Mosquitoes, which abounded in the wetlands, transmitted diseases such as Yellow Fever and epidemics occurred almost every year. African slaves, however, had a natural immunity to the disease and, together with the climate and the nature of the work, this shaped the economic and social system of the area. Physicians offered all sorts of cures to deal with the medical problems of the area and apothecaries also sold many nostrums including leeches. Newspaper advertisements reveal that these bloodsuckers were extensively used for many decades.
16854529	A field trial was carried out in West Java to investigate the potential for control of fasciolosis of antagonism between larvae of Fasciola gigantica and Echinostoma revolutum in Lymnaea rubiginosa. The trial was undertaken in 26 farmers' irrigated rice fields, each chosen because it was adjacent to a cattle pen the effluent from which flowed into or was used as fertiliser in the rice field. Fourteen of the fields chosen at random were retained as controls and received no treatment while in 12, faeces from 5 to 15 ducks containing eggs of E. revolutum were introduced to the rice from a duck pen located over the effluent drain from the cattle pen before it emptied into the adjacent rice field, or at the site bovine faeces was added to the field as fertiliser. After harvest significantly fewer L. rubiginosa were found infected with F. gigantica in fields where duck and cattle dung entered the field together than in control fields, supporting a conclusion that this method of biological control would reduce the infectivity of rice fields fertilised with bovine dung (which are those with the highest potential for being a source of infection with F. gigantica). Positive features of using dung from ducks infected with E. revolutum to control F. gigantica are the minimum additional work and disruption to existing farming practices required to implement the scheme, the common natural infection with E. revolutum in village ducks, and effectiveness of dung from 5 to 15 ducks, a number commonly kept by farmers.
16854672	This study aimed to examine whether the mortality associated with exposure to cadmium (Cd) differs between the sexes. Target subjects were 14,604 (6,944 men, 7,660 women) from a list of all residents in the Jinzu River basin in 1967 and 1968. Trend of proportion of the population aged 70 years and older was significantly higher in women in the following decreasing order: non-Jinzu River basin, a region receiving a mixed water supply, and the Jinzu River basin. Sex ratios (proportions of population of men to that of women) in those aged 70 years and older became significantly higher in the same order. This tendency was compatible with the geographical distribution of the prevalence of abnormal urinary findings and Cd concentration in rice which was grown and consumed in the area. This study revealed that Cd exposure aggravates mortality more in women than in men.
1685587	Contemporary human diets are probably as diverse now as they have ever been in the history of mankind. The abundance of food in the western world is in stark contrast to the lack of food and near starvation in parts of Africa, the continent where Homo sapiens evolved. The development of agriculture has enabled the population of the world to expand and to colonize almost the whole of its land surface, but the dependence on one staple food has introduced problems. If the staple crop fails, for example because of drought, there may be no alternative, and undernutrition and starvation are the result. Further, if the rest of the diet does not provide the nutrients that the staple food lacks, diseases due to specific nutrient deficiencies become widespread. Vitamin deficiencies among adults are less common now than they were 50 years ago, but even today millions of children in the poor rice-eating areas of the world are blind because their diets were deficient in vitamin A. For physiological reasons infants and young children will suffer most wherever there is a scarcity of food, of water, or of specific nutrients.
1685658	The waxy (wx) gene of Oryza glaberrima was cloned, and its nucleotide sequence was determined. A waxy mutant of O. glaberrima showing a glutinous phenotype was found to contain a substitution mutation generating a termination codon in the coding region of the wx gene. The Wx sequence of O. glaberrima was different from that of Oryza sativa by substitutions and insertions/deletions, among which only a few substitutions occurred in several exons not to severely alter the amino acid sequence of the Wx protein. The most striking difference observed in introns was a 139-bp deletion (or insertion) in intron 10 of O. glaberrima (or O. sativa). In O. sativa, 125 bp of the 139-bp sequence was flanked by direct repeats of a 14-bp sequence. A sequence homologous to the 125-bp sequence was found in the region preceding exon 2; this sequence was also flanked by direct repeats of another 14-bp sequence. This result and the observation that the 125-bp sequence was interspersed in rice genomes indicate that they are SINEs (short interspersed elements) in the plant system. We also identified a DNA sequence with long terminal inverted repeats in intron 13 of both O. glaberrima and O. sativa. This sequence was present in multiple copies in rice genomes, suggesting that it is a transposable element. These results obtained suggest that mobile DNA elements have diversified the rice Waxy gene by inserting into introns, each of which may originally have a length of about 100 bp.
1685659	A genetical study on the nucleotide sequences of the nuclear DNAs which share homology with rice mitochondrial plasmid-like DNAs, B1, B2, B3 and B4 was carried out. Restriction fragments of the nuclear DNAs hybridized with these plasmid-like DNAs showed polymorphisms in their length between Indica and Japonica rice cultivars. The hybridized signals found specifically in Indica or Japonica cultivars segregated in the F2 population derived from a cross between these two subspecies. The observed ratio of the nuclear homologues in the F2 population demonstrated that they were transmitted according to the Mendelian inheritance. The co-segregation of homologues was examined and the linkage was detected between the B1-nuclear homologue of Japonica and the B4-nuclear homologue of Indica, and also between the nuclear homologues of B2 and B3 of Indica. The linkage between the B1-nuclear homologue of Japonica and the B4-nuclear homologue of Indica was conserved in the different rice cultivars.
16856852	Many studies have demonstrated that the distribution of meiotic crossover events along chromosomes is non-random in plants and other species with sexual reproduction. Large differences in recombination frequencies appear at several scales. On a large scale, regions of high and low rates of crossover have been found to alternate along the chromosomes in all plant species studied. High crossover rates have been reported to be correlated with several chromosome features (e.g. gene density and distance to the centromeres). However, most of these correlations cannot be extended to all plant species. Only a few plant species have been studied on a finer scale. Hotspots of meiotic recombination (i.e. DNA fragments of a few kilobases in length with a higher rate of recombination than the surrounding DNA) have been identified in maize and rice. Most of these hotspots are intragenic. In Arabidopsis thaliana, we have identified several DNA fragments (less than 5 kb in size) with genetic recombination rates at least 5 times higher than the whole-chromosome average [4.6 cM (centimorgan)/Mb], which are therefore probable hotspots for meiotic recombination. Most crossover breakpoints lie in intergenic or non-coding regions. Major efforts should be devoted to characterizing meiotic recombination at the molecular level, which should help to clarify the role of this process in genome evolution.
16857844	Black rice and its pigment fraction may have antiatherogenic activity, but the exact component contributing to the beneficial effect remains unclear. The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of the anthocyanin-rich extract from black rice on the vulnerability of advanced plaques in apolipoprotein (apo) E-deficient mice. Using LC-MS, the anthocyanin-rich extract from black rice was identified as containing cyanidin-3-glucoside and peonidin-3-glucoside. ApoE-deficient mice (n = 30; 30 wk old) were randomly divided into 3 groups: a control group (fed the AIN-93G diet), the simvastin group [simva; fed the AIN-93G diet containing simvastatin, 50 mg/(kg.d)], or the anthocyanin-rich extract group [antho; fed the AIN-93G diet supplemented with anthocyanin-rich extract from black rice, 300 mg/(kg.d)]. After 20 wk of intervention, the plaque area that developed in the brachiocephalic artery of mice in the antho group was smaller than that of the control mice. Both the antho and simva groups had lower frequencies of the large necrotic core and thin fibrous cap in plaques than the control group. Collagen I was increased and matrix metalloproteinase-1 contents were reduced in the brachiocephalic lesion of both the antho and simva groups compared with the control group. Furthermore, mRNA levels of tissue factor and inducible nitric oxide synthase in aortae were decreased in the antho and simva groups. Supplementation of anthocyanin-rich extract improved the lipid profile by decreasing serum triglyceride, total cholesterol, and non-HDL cholesterol. These results suggest that chronic diet intake of anthocyanin-rich extract from black rice may enhance plaque stabilization in old apoE-deficient mice. The underlying mechanism is related mainly to inhibiting proinflammatory factors and improving the serum lipid profile.
16857943	Rice fields are a global source of the greenhouse gas methane, which is produced by methanogenic archaea, and by methanogens of Rice Cluster I (RC-I) in particular. RC-I methanogens are not yet available in pure culture, and the mechanistic reasons for their prevalence in rice fields are unknown. We reconstructed a complete RC-I genome (3.18 megabases) using a metagenomic approach. Sequence analysis demonstrated an aerotolerant, H2/CO2-dependent lifestyle and enzymatic capacities for carbohydrate metabolism and assimilatory sulfate reduction, hitherto unknown among methanogens. These capacities and a unique set of antioxidant enzymes and DNA repair mechanisms as well as oxygen-insensitive enzymes provide RC-I with a selective advantage over other methanogens in its habitats, thereby explaining the prevalence of RC-I methanogens in the rice rhizosphere.
16858583	MADS-box genes form a large family of transcription factors and play important roles in flower development and organ differentiation in plants. In this study, 42 wheat cDNAs encoding putative MADS-box genes were isolated. BLASTX searches and phylogenetic analysis indicated that the cDNAs represented 12 of the 14 MADS-box gene subfamilies. TaAGL14 and TaAGL15 formed a new subfamily along with a rice gene OsMADS32. RT-PCR analysis revealed that these genes had different exprsssion patterns in different organs of different stages. Expression patterns of TaAGL1 and TaAGL29 were also determined using in situ hybridization. TaAGL1 was abundantly expressed in primary root tips and the whole spikelet with more intense labeling at lodicules, paleas and stamens. TaAGL29 was expressed in both the non-reproductive parts (lemma, palea and glumes), and stamens and pistils. Moreover, differential expression patterns of these genes were also observed between wheat hybrid and its parents in leaf, stem and root of jointing stage, some were up-regulated while others were down-regulated in hybrid as compared to its parents. We concluded that multiple MADS-box genes exist in wheat genome and are expressed in tissue-specific patterns, and might play important roles in wheat growth and development.
16859094	Population interactions among mosquitoes in the Culex vishnui subgroup, which are vectors of Japanese Encephalitis, and their natural enemies were studied in Pondicherry, India. We tested the hypothesis that the breakdown of interactions between the larvae and their natural enemies due to drought followed by rain was responsible for the sudden increase in the vector population above the threshold for disease transmission during the heavy rainy period. We randomly sampled mosquito larvae and their predators in different breeding habitats and subjected the mean densities of prey, predator, and mosquito larvae infected with parasites/pathogens to covariate analysis to understand the interaction between prey and their natural enemies in relation to environmental factors. In rice fields, neither prey nor predator showed any positive correlation with temperature, RH, or the number of rainy days. However, the pathogen/parasite of mosquito immatures showed a positive correlation with RH. Among the mosquito predators, notonectids exhibited a significant positive correlation with Cx. vishnui larvae. The parasitic Romanomermis iyengari and pathogenic Coelomomyces anopheliscus also showed positive correlations with immatures. No parasites and pathogens of mosquito larvae were recorded in shallow water pools (SWP) or cement tanks (CT) during the study period. Important predators recorded in SWP were notonectids, damselfly nymphs, Diplonychus indicus, and hydrophilids. Dragonfly nymphs, gerrids, and tadpole shrimps were recorded in CT. In CT, prey and their predators were positively correlated with RH and rainy days. In SWP, there was a highly significant correlation between prey, predators and environmental factors. We conclude that rice fields are a stable ecosystem where regular interaction occurs between larvae and their natural enemies and a sudden increase in mosquito populations is uncommon. In transient habitats, no such stability is present and they become more important as breeding habitats in terms of seasonality and number. Shallow water pools should be seriously considered for the control of these vectors.
16859101	We conducted an entomological survey to determine the mosquito species diversity and abundance in relation to land use in the Mwea rice scheme, Kenya. Adult mosquitoes were collected by indoor spraying of houses and outdoors by CDC light traps in three villages representing planned (Mbuinjeru) and unplanned (Kiamachiri) rice agroecosystems and a non-irrigated agroecosystem (Murinduko). During the 12-month sampling period, a total of 98,708 mosquitoes belonging to five genera and 25 species were collected. The five most common species collected during this study were Anopheles arabiensis Patton (52.5%), Culex quinquefasciatus Say (36.7%), Anopheles pharoensis Theobald (5.2%), Anopheles coustani Laveran (1.4%), and Anopheles funestus Giles (1.3%). Anopheles arabiensis, Cx quinquefasciatus, and An. pharoensis were more abundant in rice agroecosystems than in the non-irrigated agroecosystem, and in planned than in the unplanned rice agroecosystems. In contrast, An. funestus was more abundant in the non-irrigated agroecosystem. The mosquito species diversity (H) and evenness (E(H)) in the non-irrigated agroecosystem (Shannon diversity Index, H = 1.507, EH = 0.503) was significantly higher than in the rice agroecosystems (H) = 0.968, E(H) = 0.313, unplanned; and H= 1.040, E(H) = 0.367 planned). Results of lag cross correlation analysis revealed a strong relationship between rainfall and the abundance of An. arabiensis, and C. quinquefasciatus in the non-irrigated agroecosystem but not in the rice agroecosystems. It is inferred from the data that different levels of habitat perturbations with regard to rice cultivation have different effects on mosquito diversity and abundance. This provides an understanding of how mosquito diversity is impacted by different habitat management and rice cropping strategies.
16859532	Proteins with obscure features (POFs), which lack currently defined motifs or domains, represent between 18% and 38% of a typical eukaryotic proteome. To evaluate the contribution of this class of proteins to the diversity of eukaryotes, we performed a comparative analysis of the predicted proteomes derived from 10 different sequenced genomes, including budding and fission yeast, worm, fly, mosquito, Arabidopsis, rice, mouse, rat, and human. Only 1,650 protein groups were found to be conserved among these proteomes (BLAST E-value threshold of 10(-6)). Of these, only three were designated as POFs. Surprisingly, we found that, on average, 60% of the POFs identified in these 10 proteomes (44,236 in total) were species specific. In contrast, only 7.5% of the proteins with defined features (PDFs) were species specific (17,554 in total). As a group, POFs appear similar to PDFs in their relative contribution to biological functions, as indicated by their expression, participation in protein-protein interactions and association with mutant phenotypes. However, POF have more predicted disordered structure than PDFs, implying that they may exhibit preferential involvement in species-specific regulatory and signaling networks. Because the majority of eukaryotic POFs are not well conserved, and by definition do not have defined domains or motifs upon which to formulate a functional working hypothesis, understanding their biochemical and biological functions will require species-specific investigations.
16859619	Alcoholism is a growing medical and public health issue both in adults and in the younger generation. It is a multietiological phenomenon influenced by genetic, psychological, cultural and other factors. Alcoholic beverages have traditionally been prepared from various ingredients such as grapes, hops, rice, honey, etc. Drinking prevalence has varied and is more pronounced in women and the youth. Alcoholism is shown to be of neurophysiological etiology and may lead to impairment of all human body systems. The most frequent cause of death in alcoholics are diseases of the cardiovascular system. The problem of alcoholism at workplace is very important since by affecting health and reducing work productivity it leads to accidents, injuries and decreased working capacity. Efficient solving of alcoholism and related problems includes early detection, so it is necessary to orient the health care services towards primary prevention and early interventions.
16859977	On the basis of the experimentally obtained frequencies of isotopically isolated OH and OD species, the anharmonicity constants, as well as the harmonic eigenvalues of the OH and OD stretching vibrations for two members of the isomorphous series of metal(II) saccharinates hexahydrates (those of Mn and Cu) were calculated using several theoretical models [B. Berglund, J. Lindgren, J. Tegenfeldt, J. Mol. Struct. 43 (1978) 169, M.G. Sceats, S.A. Rice, J. Chem. Phys. 71 (1979) 973, H. Engstrom, J.B. Bates, L.A. Boatner, J. Chem. Phys. 73 (1980) 1073]. The anharmonicity constants and the nu(OH)/nu(OD) isotopic ratios correlate well with the stretching frequencies of the isotopically isolated OH and OD oscillators. Both anharmonicity constants and isotopic ratios as criteria for the anharmonicity of the OH (OD) vibrations show that, with a very few exceptions, it increases with the increase in the hydrogen bond strength. The exceptions from the trend are explained in terms of local electrostatic field differences and force constant changes due to the coordination to the metal ion. The obtained regression equations were used to predict the anharmonicity constants of the nu(OD) modes in other members of the series. Within the three-particle model of the hydrogen bonded complex, the parameters characterising the coupling of the nu(OH)/nu(OD)/modes with the low-frequency nu(Ocdots, three dots, centeredO) ones were estimated. The positions of the overtones of OH and OD stretching vibrations in the compounds of copper and manganese were estimated using the calculated anharmonicity parameters. The predicted values for the OD oscillators were compared with the experimentally obtained data. Model calculations of the described type are shown to be valuable in the assignment of the second-order transitions, especially in complex systems.
16860795	Induced disease resistance of plants is often associated with an enhanced capacity to activate cellular defense responses to pathogen attack, named the "primed" state of the plant. Exopolysaccharides of Pantoea agglomerans have recently been reported as the first priming active component of bacterial origin in wheat cells. We now show that Pantoea exopolysaccharides also prime rice cells for better elicitation of a rapid oxidative burst. In contrast, in tobacco and parsley cell cultures Pantoea exopolysaccharides activate the oxidative burst response directly. Our results point to a different recognition and/or mode of action of Pantoea exopolysaccharides in monocot and dicot plants.
16861569	Some phytohormones such as gibberellins (GAs) and cytokinins (CKs) are potential targets of the KNOTTED1-like homeobox (KNOX) protein. To enhance our understanding of KNOX protein function in plant development, we identified rice (Oryza sativa) genes for adenosine phosphate isopentenyltransferase (IPT), which catalyzes the rate-limiting step of CK biosynthesis. Molecular and biochemical studies revealed that there are eight IPT genes, OsIPT1 to OsIPT8, in the rice genome, including a pseudogene, OsIPT6. Overexpression of OsIPTs in transgenic rice inhibited root development and promoted axillary bud growth, indicating that OsIPTs are functional in vivo. Phenotypes of OsIPT overexpressers resembled those of KNOX-overproducing transgenic rice, although OsIPT overexpressers did not form roots or ectopic meristems, both of which are observed in KNOX overproducers. Expression of two OsIPT genes, OsIPT2 and OsIPT3, was up-regulated in response to the induction of KNOX protein function with similar kinetics to those of down-regulation of GA 20-oxidase genes, target genes of KNOX proteins in dicots. However, expression of these two OsIPT genes was not regulated in a feedback manner. These results suggest that OsIPT2 and OsIPT3 have unique roles in the developmental process, which is controlled by KNOX proteins, rather than in the maintenance of bioactive CK levels in rice. On the basis of these findings, we concluded that KNOX protein simultaneously decreases GA biosynthesis and increases de novo CK biosynthesis through the induction of OsIPT2 and OsIPT3 expression, and the resulting high-CK and low-GA condition is required for formation and maintenance of the meristem.
16861570	Insertional mutagenesis and gene silencing are efficient tools for the determination of gene function. In contrast to gain- or loss-of-function approaches, RNA interference (RNAi)-induced gene silencing can possibly silence multigene families and homoeologous genes in polyploids. This is of great importance for functional studies in hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum), where most of the genes are present in at least three homoeologous copies and conventional insertional mutagenesis is not effective. We have introduced into bread wheat double-stranded RNA-expressing constructs containing fragments of genes encoding Phytoene Desaturase (PDS) or the signal transducer of ethylene, Ethylene Insensitive 2 (EIN2). Transformed plants showed phenotypic changes that were stably inherited over at least two generations. These changes were very similar to mutant phenotypes of the two genes in diploid model plants. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction revealed a good correlation between decreasing mRNA levels and increasingly severe phenotypes. RNAi silencing had the same quantitative effect on all three homoeologous genes. The most severe phenotypes were observed in homozygous plants that showed the strongest mRNA reduction and, interestingly, produced around 2-fold the amount of small RNAs compared to heterozygous plants. This suggests that the effect of RNAi in hexaploid wheat is gene-dosage dependent. Wheat seedlings with low mRNA levels for EIN2 were ethylene insensitive. Thus, EIN2 is a positive regulator of the ethylene-signaling pathway in wheat, very similar to its homologs in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa). Our data show that RNAi results in stably inherited phenotypes and therefore represents an efficient tool for functional genomic studies in polyploid wheat.
16861571	Transcription factors play essential roles in the developmental processes of plants. Many such factors are regulated by microRNAs (miRNAs). SQUAMOSA (SQUA) promoter-binding-like (SPL) genes encode plant-specific transcription factors, some of which contain complementary sequences of miRNA156. In this study, 19 rice (Oryza sativa) SPL (OsSPL) genes and 12 rice miRNA156 (OsmiR156) precursors were identified in the rice genome. Sequence and experimental analysis suggested that 11 OsSPL genes were putative targets of OsmiR156. Plant SPL proteins were classified into six subgroups based on the phylogenetic analysis of SQUA promoter-binding protein domain. Diverse exon-intron structures and distinct organizations of putative motifs beyond the SQUA promoter-binding protein domains were identified in the OsSPL gene family. Transcript level analysis of OsSPL genes in various rice tissues and organs revealed different tempospatial expression patterns. More than half of the OsSPL genes including most OsmiR156-targeted genes are predominantly expressed in the young panicles, whereas OsmiR156 genes are predominantly expressed in the young shoots and leaves of rice. Overexpression of two OsmiR156 genes (OsmiR156b and OsmiR156h) in rice resulted in severe dwarfism, strongly reduced panicle size, and delayed flowering, suggesting that OsmiR156 and OsSPL target genes are involved in various developmental processes, especially the flower development of rice. Different patterns of transcript changes (decreased or unchanged) of different target genes in same tissue and of same target gene in different tissues detected in the OsmiR156-overexpressing plants suggested diverse interactions between OsmiR156 and OsSPL target genes in a tissue-specific manner.
16861806	We have previously isolated and characterized the rice (Oryza sativa) cDNAs, OsCyc1/OsCPS4, OsCyc2/OsCPS2, OsKS4, OsDTC1/OsKS7, OsDTC2/OsKS8 and OsKS10, which encode cyclases that are responsible for diterpene phytoalexin biosynthesis. Among the other members of this gene family, OsCPS1 and OsKS1 have been suggested as being responsible for gibberellin biosynthesis, OsKSL11 has recently been shown to encode stemodene synthase, and the functions of the three other diterpene cyclase genes in the rice genome, OsKS3, OsKS5 and OsKS6, have not yet been determined. In this study, we show that recombinant OsKS5 and OsKS6 expressed in E. coli converted ent-copalyl diphosphate into ent-pimara-8(14),15-diene and ent-kaur-15-ene, respectively. Neither product is a hydrocarbon precursor required in the biosynthesis of either gibberellins or phytoalexins. OsKS3 may be a pseudogene from which the translated product is a truncated enzyme. These results suggest that the diterpene cyclase genes responsible for gibberellin and phytoalexin biosynthesis are not functionally redundant.
16862299	Oebalus poecilus (Dallas) is an important pest affecting irrigated rice in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. It hibernates during the coldest months of the year in refuges such as bamboo litter. This study examined O. poecilus hibernation to determine the causes of mortality during this period. The study was conducted in a 140 m(2) bamboo plantation located in a rice-growing area in Eldorado do Sul County (30 degrees 02 S and 51 degrees 23 W), RS. During June 2000 to April 2002, 63 samples of litter were taken in weekly or fortnightly intervals, and the number of bugs recorded in the laboratory. The arrival at the hibernation site (bamboo litter) began in the first fortnight of March, and was completed in the beginning of May. O. poecilus left this refuge from middle October to the end of December. Parasitism by tachinid flies and Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. fungus were the most important mortality factors.
16862676	To evaluate the patterns of food services and to determine the kinds and frequencies of food items served to the medical cadets. Menu records of the meals served to the medical cadets at a mess hall of Phramongkutklao College of Medicine were retrospectively reviewed, covering the period of one month of the academic year 2004. The menus were analysed using descriptive statistics. Sixty-five medical cadets participated in the food service programme by setting their own menus. The programme provided three main meals a day. In August, the studied month, it was found that some selected menus were not suitable. Only two types of foods of carbohydrate sources were used. The predominant one was milled rice (87 meals or 93.5%). At least 5 meals (5.4%) did not serve vegetables at all. As for fresh fruits, up to 16 days (51.6%) they were not served. The food service programme is a strength point for promoting healthy nutrition to medical cadets in this setting. Involvement of medical cadets by setting up their own menus can reflect very clearly undesirable eating habits. Thus, appropriate involvement of medical cadets can be a good means to help them acquire knowledge and skills in healthy nutrition practices.
1686274	A slow-release, briquet formulation of methoprene produced long-term residual activity against Psorophora columbiae larvae in 37.2 m2 (400 ft2) rice plots. An application rate of 1 briquet/9.3 m2 (1/100 ft2) provided significantly (P less than 0.05) greater reduction of adult mosquito emergence (98.2%) than did a rate of 1 briquet/18.6 m2 (1/200 ft2) (89.6%) during 5 insecticidal activity assessments conducted over a period of 58 days. No significant (P greater than 0.05) differences in activity were detected between treated plots which were continuously flooded and those periodically drained and reflooded.
16862988	We examined the lateral flow strip assay for identifying unauthorized genetically modified (GM) rice. The GM rice expresses the Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxin, CryIAc protein, which confers tolerance to insects. The recombinant CryIAc protein was prepared from the inclusion bodies of an E. coli. strain into which the CryIAc gene had been inserted, using gel filtration chromatography. The lateral flow strip assay for the identification of GM cotton which also expresses CryIAc protein, was applied to unpolished rice and polished rice spiked with recombinant CryIAc protein. The spiked recombinant CryIAc protein was clearly detected at the level of 0.012 microg/g in both the unpolished and polished rice. After loading of the extract on the strip, a 60 -minute stand time is necessary to clearly detect CryIAc protein. The detection limit was approximately 12 ng CryIAc protein per gram of rice. These results suggest that the lateral flow strip assay for GM cotton can be used to detect CryIAc protein expressed in GM rice.
16863308	A direct chemical dynamics simulation, at the B3LYP6-31G(d) level of theory, was used to study the post-transition state intramolecular and unimolecular dynamics for the O3 + propene reaction. Comparisons of B3LYP6-31G(d) with CCSD(T)/cc-pVTZ and other levels of theory show that the former gives accurate structures and energies for the reaction's stationary points. The direct dynamics simulations are initiated at the anti and syn O3 + propene transition states (TSs) and the TS symmetries are preserved in forming the molozonide intermediates. Anti<-->syn molozonide isomerization has a very low barrier of 2-3 kcalmol and its Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) lifetime is 0.3 ps. However, the trajectory isomerization is slower and it is unclear whether this anti<-->syn equilibration is complete when the trajectories are terminated at 1.6 ps. The syn (anti) molozonides dissociate to CH3CHO + H2COO and H2CO + syn (anti) CH3CHOO. The kinetics for the latter reactions are in overall good agreement with RRKM theory, but there is a symmetry preserving non-RRKM dynamical constraint for the former. Dissociation of anti molozonide to CH3CHO + H2COO is enhanced and suppressed, respectively, for the trajectory ensembles initiated at the anti and syn O3 + propene TSs. The dissociation of syn molozonide to CH3CHO + H2COO may also be enhanced for trajectories initiated at the syn O3 + propene TS. At the time the trajectories are terminated at 1.6 ps, the ratio of the trajectory and RRKM values of the CH3CHO + H2COO product yield is 1.6 if the symmetries of the initiation and dissociation TSs are the same and 0.6 if their symmetries are different. There are coherences in the intramolecular energy flow, which depend on molozonide's symmetry (i.e., anti or syn). This symmetry related dynamics is not completely understood, but it is clearly related to the non-RRKM dynamics for anti<-->syn isomerization and anti molozonide dissociation to CH3CHO + H2COO. Correlations are found between the stretching motions of molozonide, indicative of nonchaotic and non-RRKM dynamics. The non-RRKM dynamics of molozonide dissociation partitions vibration energy to H2COO that is larger than statistical partitioning. Though the direct dynamics simulations are classical, better agreement is obtained using quantum instead of classical harmonic RRKM theory. This may result from the neglect of anharmonicity in the RRKM calculations, the non-RRKM dynamics of the classical trajectories, or a combination of these two effects. The trajectories suggest that the equilibrium syn/anti molozonide ratio is approximately 1.1-1.2 times larger than that predicted by the harmonic densities of state, indicating an anharmonic correction.
1686448	Laboratory work has shown that mosquitoes obtaining blood meals from animals treated with ivermectin exhibit lowered adult survival, fecundity, egg hatch and larval survival. Computer simulation evaluated the consequences of this phenomenon in field populations of Psorophora columbiae feeding on cattle in the rice agroecosystem. Results suggest that rather minor reductions, on the order of 10% below normal, in these life history parameters would significantly affect the population dynamics of this species in this particular system. Significant reductions in the amount of insecticide used for mosquito abatement are also projected.
16865332	The high-quality rice genome sequence is serving as a reference for comparative genome analysis in crop plants, especially cereals. However, early comparisons with bread wheat showed complex patterns of conserved synteny (gene content) and colinearity (gene order). Here, we show the presence of ancient duplicated segments in the progenitor of wheat, which were first identified in the rice genome. We also show that single-copy (SC) rice genes, those representing unique matches with wheat expressed sequence tag (EST) unigene contigs in the whole rice genome, show more than twice the proportion of genes mapping to syntenic wheat chromosome as compared to the multicopy (MC) or duplicated rice genes. While 58.7% of the 1,244 mapped SC rice genes were located in single syntenic wheat chromosome groups, the remaining 41.3% were distributed randomly to the other six non-syntenic wheat groups. This could only be explained by a background dispersal of genes in the genome through transposition or other unknown mechanism. The breakdown of rice-wheat synteny due to such transpositions was much greater near the wheat centromeres. Furthermore, the SC rice genes revealed a conserved primordial gene order that gives clues to the origin of rice and wheat chromosomes from a common ancestor through polyploidy, aneuploidy, centromeric fusions, and translocations. Apart from the bin-mapped wheat EST contigs, we also compared 56,298 predicted rice genes with 39,813 wheat EST contigs assembled from 409,765 EST sequences and identified 7,241 SC rice gene homologs of wheat. Based on the conserved colinearity of 1,063 mapped SC rice genes across the bins of individual wheat chromosomes, we predicted the wheat bin location of 6,178 unmapped SC rice gene homologs and validated the location of 213 of these in the telomeric bins of 21 wheat chromosomes with 35.4% initial success. This opens up the possibility of directed mapping of a large number of conserved SC rice gene homologs in wheat. Overall, only 46.4% of these SC genes code for proteins with known functional domains; the remaining 53.6% have unknown function, and hence, represent an important, but yet, under explored category of genes.
16868041	Genetic load in the genome of the model species, rice, was genetically dissected by mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting the radiosensitivity of 226 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) to gamma-ray- and spaceflight-induced radiation. The parents and RILs varied considerably in their radiosensitivity to gamma-ray irradiation. A total of 28 QTLs affecting the two index traits, seedling height (SH) and seed fertility (SF), of radiosensitivity were identified. The japonica parent, Lemont, was much more sensitive to gamma-ray irradiation than the indica parent, Teqing, and its alleles at almost all QTLs were associated with increased radiosensitivity, suggesting a much higher genetic load in the japonica genome of rice. Six QTLs (QSh2a, QSh2b, QSh5a, QSh7, QSf3b, and QSf10b) were located in the genomic regions particularly sensitive to radiation and thus might represent possible 'mutation hot spots' in the japonica genome. Detailed characterization of these genomic regions may shed light on the evolution and subspecific differentiation of rice.
16868777	Several calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are located in plant plasma membranes where they phosphorylate enzymes and transporters, like the H(+)-ATPase and water channels, thereby regulating their activities. In order to determine which kinases phosphorylate the H(+)-ATPase, a calcium-dependent kinase was purified from beetroot (Beta vulgaris L.) plasma membranes by anion-exchange chromatography, centrifugation in glycerol gradients and hydrophobic interaction chromatography. The kinetic parameters of this kinase were determined (V(max): 3.5 micromol mg(-1) min(-1), K(m) for ATP: 67 microM, K(m) for syntide 2: 15 microM). The kinase showed an optimum pH of 6.8 and a marked dependence on low-micromolar Ca(2+) concentrations (K(d): 0.77 microM). During the purification procedure, a 63-kDa protein with an isoelectric point of 4.7 was enriched. However, this protein was shown not to be a kinase by mass spectrometry. Kinase activity gels showed that a 50-kDa protein could be responsible for most of the activity in purified kinase preparations. This protein was confirmed to be a CDPK by mass spectrometry, possibly the red beet ortholog of rice CDPK2 and Arabidopsis thaliana CPK9, both found associated with membranes. This kinase was able to phosphorylate purified H(+)-ATPase in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner.
16870236	Large areas of contaminated land are being used for agricultural production in some countries due to the high demand for food. To minimize the influx of pollutants to the human food chain through consumption of agricultural products, we propose the concept of pollution-safe cultivars (PSCs), i.e. cultivars whose edible parts accumulate a specific pollutant at a level low enough for safe consumption, even when grown in contaminated soil. We tested the feasibility of the PSC concept by growing 43 cultivars of paddy rice (Oryza sativa L., including 20 normal and 23 hybrid cultivars) under a high (75.69-77.55 mg kg(-1)) and a low (1.75-1.85 mg kg(-1)) cadmium (Cd) exposure. These pot experiments took place in the spring and summer of 2004. At the low level of Cd exposure, 30 out of the 43 tested cultivars were found to be Cd-PSCs. Grain Cd concentrations were highly correlated (p<0.01) between the two experiments, suggesting that Cd accumulation in rice grain is genotype-dependent and that the selection of PSCs is possible, at least at a certain level of soil contamination. No Cd-PSCs were found under the high level of Cd exposure. Yield was enhanced in some cultivars and depressed in others in response to elevated soil Cd, indicating that farmers cannot rely on yield depression as an indicator of toxicity of the grains. It is therefore important and feasible to screen for PSCs and to establish PSC breeding programs to effectively and efficiently reduce the risk of human exposure to soil pollutants, such as Cd, through crop consumption.
16871522	Fumonisins were produced in a rice culture infected with Fusarium verticillioides. To decrease the possibility of the formation of artifacts, the fumonisins were analyzed by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization ion trap tandem mass spectrometry (RP-HPLC/ESI-IT-MS2) immediately after the extraction of the culture material without any sample clean-up. In addition to already known fumonisins, numerous new fumonisin mycotoxins and fumonisin-like compounds were detected. On the basis of the IT-MS2 data, detailed fragmentation pathways including new mechanisms were proposed for the different series of fumonisins. The retention times, the masses of the protonated molecules and of the product ions including the backbones and the characteristic neutral mass losses from the protonated molecules of the new compounds suggested their structures (applying the well-known designation): iso-FA1a,b, iso-FB1a-d, iso-FB2,3a-e, PHFB2a-c, PHFB4a-d, FB5/iso-FB5a-d, FBK1 2TCA, FBK4 2TCA, FC2, iso-FC2,3, PHFC4, FD and FBX series. The relative quantities of fumonisins and fumonisin-like compounds found in the sample extract were expressed as percentages of FB1 (0.02-100%). The backbone of the compound denoted FD contained fewer carbon atoms than the well-known fumonisins with the C19 or C20 backbone and may well be a precursor of the longer compounds. For the compounds denoted FBX (12 compounds), one or two OH groups attached to the fumonisin backbone were esterified by carboxylic acids other than tricarballylic acid, such as cis-aconitic acid, oxalylsuccinic acid and oxalylfumaric acid.
16872399	Root-derived carbon provides a major source for microbial production and emission of CH4 from rice field soils. Therefore, we characterized the structure and activity of the bacterial community inhabiting rice roots and the rhizosphere. In the first experiment, DNA retrieved from rice roots was analysed for bacterial 16S rRNA genes using cloning, sequencing and in situ hybridization. In the second experiment, rice plants were pulse-labelled with 13CO2 (99% of atom 13C) for 7 days, and the bacterial RNA was isolated from rhizosphere soil and subjected to density gradient centrifugation. RNA samples from density fractions were analysed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism fingerprinting, cloning and sequencing. The experiments showed that the dominant bacteria inhabiting rice roots and the rhizosphere particularly belonged to the Alphaproteobacteria, Betaproteobacteria and Firmicutes. The RNA stable isotope probing revealed that the bacteria actively assimilating C derived from the pulse-labelled rice plants were Azospirillum spp. (Alphaproteobacteria) and members of Burkholderiaceae (Betaproteobacteria). Both anaerobic (e.g. Clostridia) and aerobic (e.g. Comamonas) degraders were present at high abundance, indicating that root environments and degradation processes were highly heterogeneous. The relative importance of iron and sulfate reducers suggested that cycling of iron and sulfur is active in the rhizosphere.
16872405	Northern acidic peatlands are important sources of atmospheric methane, yet the methanogens in them are poorly characterized. We examined methanogenic activities and methanogen populations at different depths in two peatlands, McLean bog (MB) and Chicago bog (CB). Both have acidic (pH 3.5-4.5) peat soils, but the pH of the deeper layers of CB is near-neutral, reflecting its previous existence as a neutral-pH fen. Acetotrophic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis could be stimulated in upper samples from both bogs, and phylotypes of methanogens using H2/CO2 (Methanomicrobiales) or acetate (Methanosarcinales) were identified in 16S rRNA gene clone libraries and by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analyses using a novel primer/restriction enzyme set that we developed. Particularly dominant in the upper layers was a clade in the Methanomicrobiales, called E2 here and the R10 or fen group elsewhere, estimated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction to be present at approximately 10(8) cells per gram of dry peat. Methanogenic activity was considerably lower in deeper samples from both bogs. The methanogen populations detected by T-RFLP in deeper portions of MB were mainly E2 and the uncultured euryarchaeal rice cluster (RC)-II group, whereas populations in the less acidic CB deep layers were considerably different, and included a Methanomicrobiales clade we call E1-E1', as well as RC-I, RC-II, marine benthic group D, and a new cluster that we call the subaqueous cluster. E2 was barely detectable in the deeper samples from CB, further evidence for the associations of most organisms in this group with acidic habitats.
16873616
16874488	Altering root system architecture is considered a method of improving crop water and soil nutrient capture. The analysis of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for root traits has revealed inconsistency in the same population evaluated in different environments. It must be clarified if this is due to genotype x environment interaction or considerations of statistics if the value of QTLs for marker-assisted breeding is to be estimated. A modified split-plot design was used where a main plot corresponded to a separate experiment. The main plot factor had four treatments (environments), which were completely randomized among eight trials, so that each treatment was replicated twice. The sub-plot factor consisted of 168 recombinant inbreed lines of the Bala x Azucena rice mapping population, randomly allocated to the seven soil-filled boxes. The aim of the trial was to quantify QTL x environment interaction. The treatments were chosen to alter partitioning to roots; consisting of a control treatment (high-soil nitrogen, high light and high-water content) and further treatments where light, soil nitrogen or soil water was reduced singly. After 4 weeks growth, maximum root length (MRL), maximum root thickness, root mass below 50 cm, total plant dry mass (%), root mass and shoot length were measured. The treatments affected plant growth as predicted; low nitrogen and drought increased relative root partitioning, low-light decreased it. The parental varieties Bala and Azucena differed significantly for all traits. Broad-sense heritability of most traits was high (57-86%). Variation due to treatment was the most important influence on the variance, while genotype was next. Genotype x environment interaction was detected for all traits except MRL, although the proportion of variation due to this interaction was generally small. It is concluded that genotype x environment interaction is present but less important than genotypic variation. A companion paper presents QTL x environment analysis of data.
16875159	In recent studies it was observed the pleiotropic properties beyond hypolipemic effects of fenofibrate: anti-inflammatory, antioxidants effects, positive impact on glucose metabolism, thrombosis, fibrinolytic system endothelial dysfunction. To estimate the effects of 4-weeks therapy of micronized fenofibrate in dose 267 mg/d on C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen, thiobarbituric acid reaction substances (TBARS) concentrations in isolated erythrocyte membranes and the activities of antioxidants enzymes such: catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), superoxide dismutase (SOD) in erythrocytes in patients with visceral obesity and atherogenic dyslipidemia. The study comprised 55 patients (pts), including 20 healthy volunteers and 35 pts with visceral obesity and dyslipidemia (TG>180 mg/dl, HDL-C < 40 mg/dl for men, <50 mg/dl for women) treated with micronized fenofibrate (267 mg/d). Before and after 4 weeks of active treatment the following parameters were determined: lipids (by enzymatic method using BioMerieux tests), CRP (by immunoturbidimetric method), fibrinogen (by Clauss'a method), TBARS concentrations (by method of Stock and Dormandy), CAT (method of Bartosz et al.), GSH-Px (method of Rice-Evansa), SOD (method of Misra) activities. It was noticed significantly higher concentrations of CRP fibrinogen, TBARS and lower activities of CAT GSH-Px, SOD in patients with visceral obesity and atherogenic dyslipidemia than in the control group. The micronized fenofibrate caused a significant decrease in serum total cholesterol (by 15%), TG (by 38%), CRP (by 35%), fibrinogen (by 26%) and TBARS (by 33%) concentrations associated with a increase in CAT (by 35%), GSH-Px (by 63%), SOD (by 31%) activities. We conclude that micronized fenofibrate beyond hipolipemic efficacy demonstrates the antioxidative and anti-inflammatory properties in patients with visceral obesity and atherogenic dyslipidemia.
16875318	Additive effects, additive by additive epistatic effects, and their environmental interactions of QTLs are important genetic components of quantitative traits. Genetic architecture underlying rice biomass yield and its two component traits (straw yield and grain yield) were analyzed for a population of 125 DH lines from an inter-subspecific cross of IR64/Azucena. The mixed-model based composite interval mapping approach (MCIM) was used to detect QTLs, There were 12 QTLs detected with additive main effects, 27 QTLs involved in digenic interaction with aa and/or aae effects, and 18 QTLs affected by environments with ae and/or aae effects. It was revealed that epistatic effects and QE interaction effects existed on biomass yield and its component traits in rice. In addition, the genetic basis of relationships among these traits were investigated. Four QTLs and one pair of epistatic QTLs were detected to be responsible for the positive correlation between biomass yield and straw yield. Three QTLs might be responsible for the negative correlation between straw yield and grain yield. This result could partially explain the genetic basis of correlation among the three traits, and provide useful information for genetic improvement of these traits by marker-assisted selection.
16875320	On the basis of a JA-inducible EST, the full length cDNA of a putative protein kinase gene, OsSJMKJ, was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L.). The predicted protein of this gene, consisting of 498 amino acids with a predicted PI value of 8.43, contains a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) domain with a dual-phosphorylation activation motif TDY (Thr-Asp-Tyr) and a C-terminus domain that feature a typical MAPK belonging to subgroup V. OsSJMK1 showed 81% sequence identity to the reported BWMK1, a blast fungus and wounding inducible protein, in the N-terminus kinase domain but had low sequence identity in the C-terminus domain. Despite the high similarity of gene structure between OsSJMK1 and BWMK1, the expression of OsSJMK1 was weakly induced by blast fungus but not wounding, rather it was transiently induced by jasmonic acid (JA) and salicylic acid (SA) at early stages of treatment. This gene was not induced by other hormones (such as ABA) or abiotic stresses, such as drought and salinity. The low level of transcript of this gene was detected in the various tissues of rice. The results suggest that OsSJMK1 might be activated specifically by JA and SA and involved in defense signaling pathways.
16875321	Relative tillering ability, available spike, biomass, and grain yield of P1, P2, F1, and F(2,3) were used to study the genetic development of rice related to phosphorus efficiency with a quantitative genetic model. The results indicated that under a low-P condition, the relative tillering ability and the relative available spike were apt to the additivity-dominance-epistasis model with two couples of major genes, between which additive, dominant and epistatic effects existed, and with multi-gene modifications. Their maximum major gene effect mostly indicated additivity, but sub-maximum major gene effect mostly indicated dominance. Relative biomass and grain yield were apt to the additivity-dominance-epistasis and multi-genes model. The heritabilities of the major genes were 60.08% and 37.70%, and those of the multi-genes were 32.15% and 58.9%, respectively. This meant that the heritabilities of the relative tillering ability, the relative available spike, and the relative biomass were high, so they were ideal indexes for rice breeding tolerating to low-P stress; whereas, the heritability of the relative grain yield was low, which meant that the grain yield was easily affected by the environment.
16875322	A new double-haploid (rdh) rice plant with purple stigma and red seeds was discovered by tissue culture. Genetic analysis suggested that the trait of rdh purple stigma was controlled by a pair of dominant gene. Polymorphic analysis of microsatellite markers demonstrated that the purple stigma gene of rdh was located on rice chromosome 6 at 4.2 cM, 0.35 cM and 0.53 cM from microsatellite markers RM276, RM253 and RM111, respectively. It was believed that the purple stigma gene of rdh was the first mapped purple stigma gene on rice chromosome 6. This purple stigma gene was designated tentatively as Ps-4.
16875462	Infection with Bacillus cereus is generally associated with gastrointestinal effects of food poisoning linked to infected rice. Isolates of B. cereus in hospital and clinical settings from any material other than vomitus or feces are commonly dismissed as contaminants. We report a case of B. cereus surgical site infection after fasciotomy in a healthy 31 year-old man admitted to the orthopedic ward with a comminuted fracture of the tibia. No source was identified. This report highlights the risk of surgical site infection with an unlikely bacterium known to contaminate surgical materials. It stresses the importance of vigilance against this infrequent but potentially serious non-gastrointestinal bacillary infection, as organisms dismissed initially as contaminants may lead to rapid clinical deterioration. The use of antimicrobial agents with nosocomial coverage, even of non-nosocomial pathogens, is considered in the treatment of postoperative surgical site infections.
16875714	Many Bangladeshi suffer from arsenic-related health concerns. Most mitigation activities focus on identifying contaminated wells and reducing the amount of arsenic ingested from well water. Food as a source of arsenic exposure has been recently documented. The objectives of this study were to measure the main types of arsenic in commonly consumed foods in Bangladesh and estimate the average daily intake (ADI) of arsenic from food and water. Total, organic and inorganic, arsenic were measured in drinking water and in cooked rice and vegetables from Bangladeshi households. The mean total arsenic level in 46 rice samples was 358 microg/kg (range: 46 to 1,110 microg/kg dry weight) and 333 microg/kg (range: 19 to 2,334 microg/kg dry weight) in 39 vegetable samples. Inorganic arsenic calculated as arsenite and arsenate made up 87% of the total arsenic measured in rice, and 96% of the total arsenic in vegetables. Total arsenic in water ranged from 200 to 500 microg/L. Using individual, self-reported data on daily consumption of rice and drinking water the total arsenic ADI was 1,176 microg (range: 419 to 2,053 microg), 14% attributable to inorganic arsenic in cooked rice. The ADI is a conservative estimate; vegetable arsenic was not included due to limitations in self-reported daily consumption amounts. Given the arsenic levels measured in food and water and consumption of these items, cooked rice and vegetables are a substantial exposure pathway for inorganic arsenic. Intervention strategies must consider all sources of dietary arsenic intake.
16876695	The mechanical actions of the fungus Magnaporthe grisea raise many intriguing questions concerning the forces involved. These include: (1) the material properties of the appressorial wall; (2) the strength of the adhesive that keeps the appressorium anchored to the rice leaf surface; and (3) the forces involved in the penetration process whereby a peg is driven through the host cell wall. In this paper we give order of magnitude estimates for all three of these quantities. A simple Young-Laplace law type argument is used to show that the appressorial wall elastic modulus is of order 10-100 MPa; and an adaptation of standard adhesion theory indicates a lower bound on the strength of the appressorial adhesive to be of the order 500 J/m(2). Drawing on ideas from plasticity theory and ballistics, estimates of the penetration force raise interesting questions about experiments performed on the penetration of inert substrates by the fungus.
16876912	In plants and microbes, sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) is an important enzyme in sucrose biosynthesis. Several different isozymes of SPS exist in plants. Genomic and EST sequence data from Arabidopsis, rice and maize has been analyzed. This analysis has revealed that the Arabidopsis genome contains four unique SPS genes. The rice databases (Monsanto proprietary, and public databases) contain five unique full-length SPS genes. Using the Monsanto maize EST and genomic sequence databases, we have identified five full length and two partial SPS sequences, bringing the total number of presently known maize SPS genes to at least seven. Phylogenetic analysis of all known SPS sequences revealed several putative evolutionary branches of SPS. We have classified SPS genes into three major groups in higher plants, all with distinct features from the known microbial SPS genes. Furthermore, this analysis suggests evolutionary divergence of monocotyledonous (monocot) and dicotyledonous (dicot) SPS sequences. The evidence suggests that several gene duplication events occurred at various points during evolution, both before and after the monocot/dicot split. It appears that at least one of the major forms of SPS genes may have evolved after the divergence of monocots and dicots. In addition, several more recent gene duplication events may have occurred after maize/rice speciation, giving rise to additional SPS genes in maize. Some of the variants lack one or more of the presently known regulatory sites, implying that this evolutionary divergence may have given rise to enzymes with functional differences. We present evidence from transcript distribution studies using cDNA libraries as well as transcriptional profiling experiments and propose that specific SPS genes have diverse patterns of expression that are sometimes responsive to environmental signals. Our data suggests that higher plant SPS isozymes differ with respect to their patterns of expression and regulation and that our proposed phylogenetic classification reflects specific functional categories for higher plant SPS isozymes.
16876928	Arsenic contamination of rice by irrigation with contaminated groundwater and secondarily increased soil arsenic compounds the arsenic burden of populations dependent on subsistence rice-diets. The arsenic concentration of cooked rice is known to increase with the arsenic concentration of the cooking water but the effects of cooking methods have not been defined. We tested the three major rice cooking procedures followed globally. Using low-arsenic water (As < 3 microg/L), the traditional method of the Indian subcontinent (wash until clear; cook with rice: water::1:6; discard excess water) removed up to 57% of the arsenic from rice containing arsenic 203-540 microg/kg. Approximately half of the arsenic was lost in the wash water, half in the discard water. A simple inexpensive rice cooker based on this method has been designed and used for this purpose. Despite the use of low-arsenic water, the contemporary method of cooking unwashed rice at rice:water::1:1.5-2.0 until no discard water remains did not modify the arsenic content. Preliminary washing until clear did remove 28% of the rice arsenic. The results were not influenced by water source (tubewell, dug well, pond or rain); cooking vessel (aluminium, steel, glass or earthenware); or the absolute weight of rice or volume of water. The use of low-As water in the traditional preparation of arsenic contaminated rice can reduce the ingested burden of arsenic.
16877029	Receptor-like kinases (RLKs) are signaling proteins that feature an extracellular domain connected via a transmembrane domain to a cytoplasmic kinase. This architecture indicates that RLKs perceive external signals, transducing them into the cell. In plants, RLKs were first implicated in the regulation of development, in pathogen responses, and in recognition events. RLKs comprise a major gene family in plants, with more than 600 encoded in the Arabidopsis genome and more than 1100 found in rice genomes. The greater number of RLKs in rice is mostly attributable to expansions in the clades that are involved in pathogen responses. Recent functional studies in both monocots and dicots continue to identify individual RLKs that have similar developmental and abiotic stress roles. Analysis of closely related RLKs reveals that family members might have overlapping roles but can also possess distinct functions.
16877030	Transcription factors (TFs) are a group of proteins that control cellular processes by regulating the expression of downstream target genes. Recent progress has been made in the cloning and characterization of Arabidopsis TFs on the genome scale, especially on the cloning of open reading frames (ORFs), sequence analysis and the expression profiling of different TF families. Huge difference in numbers of subfamily members were found for Arabidopsis MYB, C2H2 (Zn), C3H-type 1 (Zn), C3H-type 2 (Zn) TFs by independent research groups, mainly because of differences in bioinformatic search stringency. However, the Arabidopsis and rice genomes contain very different numbers of TFs in the WRKY, NAC, bZIP, MADS, ALFIN-like, GRAS and C2C2 (Zn)-dof families, indicating a possible divergence of biological functions from dicots to monocots. TFs have also been found to play key roles in the biosynthesis and signaling of plant hormones, in cell growth and differentiation, and in photomorphogenesis.
16877058	The spread of plant virus disease between fields is reviewed for several horticultural and agricultural crops. Previous studies have focused on cropping systems where there is scope for using separation in time and space to reduce the potential for virus spread between plantings. In our study, data are presented on virus disease spread between fields in an irrigated rice area in the tropics where crops are grown continuously throughout the year. An intensive survey was conducted in rice fields planted from November 1992 to October 1994 in which the occurrence of new infections of rice tungro virus disease was recorded. The effect of a number of variables on disease incidence, including the proximity of a field to inoculum sources, was examined using ordinal regression analysis. Primary infection showed large seasonal fluctuation. In addition, the number of leafhopper vectors had a significant effect, as did the tungro vector resistance of the rice variety grown. The distance to nearest inoculum source and the tungro incidence of this source significantly affected the level of infection occurring in a vulnerable field. The results are discussed in relation to management strategies to reduce the spread of tungro disease between fields in irrigated lowland rice cropping systems.
16877494	The centromere is the chromosomal site for assembly of the kinetochore where spindle fibers attach during cell division. In most multicellular eukaryotes, centromeres are composed of long tracts of satellite repeats that are recalcitrant to sequencing and fine-scale genetic mapping. Here, we report the genomic and genetic characterization of the complete centromere of rice (Oryza sativa) chromosome 3. Using a DNA fiber-fluorescence in situ hybridization approach, we demonstrated that the centromere of chromosome 3 (Cen3) contains approximately 441 kb of the centromeric satellite repeat CentO. Cen3 includes an approximately 1,881-kb domain associated with the centromeric histone CENH3. This CENH3-associated chromatin domain is embedded within a 3,113-kb region that lacks genetic recombination. Extensive transcription was detected within the CENH3 binding domain based on comprehensive annotation of protein-coding genes coupled with empirical measurements of mRNA levels using RT-PCR and massively parallel signature sequencing. Genes <10 kb from the CentO satellite array were expressed in several rice tissues and displayed histone modification patterns consistent with euchromatin, suggesting that rice centromeric chromatin accommodates normal gene expression. These results support the hypothesis that centromeres can evolve from gene-containing genomic regions.
16880545	Rice bifunctional alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitor (RASI) can inhibit both alpha-amylase from larvae of the red flour beetle (Tribolium castaneum) and subtilisin from Bacillus subtilis. The synthesis of RASI is up-regulated during the late milky stage in developing seeds. The 8.9 kDa molecular-weight RASI from rice has been crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. According to 1.81 angstroms resolution X-ray diffraction data from rice RASI crystals, the crystal belongs to space group P2(1)2(1)2, with unit-cell parameters a = 79.99, b = 62.95, c = 66.70 angstroms. Preliminary analysis indicates two RASI molecules in an asymmetric unit with a solvent content of 44%.
16880561	Rice (Oryza sativa) BGlu1 beta-glucosidase was expressed in Escherichia coli with N-terminal thioredoxin and hexahistidine tags and purified by immobilized metal-affinity chromatography (IMAC). After removal of the N-terminal tags, cation-exchange and S-200 gel-filtration chromatography yielded a 50 kDa BGlu1 with >95% purity. The free enzyme and a complex with 2,4-dinitrophenyl-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-beta-D-glucopyranoside inhibitor were crystallized by microbatch and hanging-drop vapour diffusion. Small tetragonal crystals of BGlu1 with and without inhibitor grew in 18%(w/v) PEG 8000 with 0.1 M sodium cacodylate pH 6.5 and 0.2 M zinc acetate. Crystals of BGlu1 with inhibitor were streak-seeded into 23%(w/v) PEG MME 5000, 0.2 M ammonium sulfate, 0.1 M MES pH 6.7 to yield larger crystals. Crystals with and without inhibitor diffracted to 2.15 and 2.75 angstroms resolution, respectively, and had isomorphous orthorhombic unit cells belonging to space group P2(1)2(1)2(1).
16881292	In a field experiment, five fertilizer treatments including chemical fertilizer (CF), rapeseed cake + chemical fertilizer (RC + CF), wheat straw + chemical fertilizer (WS + CF), cow manure + chemical fertilizer (CM + CF), and pig manure + chemical fertilizer (PM + CF), were dedicated to examine the effect of organic materials incorporation in the rice season on N2O emissions from the following winter wheat season and to assess the climatic impacts from CH4 and N2O emissions in a rice-wheat rotation. Organic material was incorporated at the same rate (225 g x m(-2)) for organic treatments at the depth of 10 cm in the soil as the basal fertilizer just before rice transplanting. An identical synthetic nitrogen fertilizer was adopted for all treatments. Results show that the seasonal amount of N20 emissions from the following wheat season differed with organic material applied in rice season. No pronounced difference in N20 emissions was found between the CF and RC + CF treatments. In contrast with the CF treatment, however, N2O emission was decreased by 15% for the WS + CF treatment, but increased by 29% and 16% for the CM + CF and PM + CF treatments, respectively. Over the entire annual rotation cycle, N2O amount was increased by 17% for the CM + CF treatment, 7% for the PM + CF treatment, and 6% for the RC + CF treatment, but decreased by 16% for the WS + CF treatment in comparison with the CF treatment. Based on total emissions of CH4 in rice season and N2O over the entire rotation cycle, the estimation of combined Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) for CH4 and N20 shows that over a 20 years horizon or a 500 years horizon, the value of annual total GWPs was ranked in the order of RC + CF > WS + CF > CM + CF > PM + CF > CF or RC + CF > CM + CF > PM + CF > WS + CF > CF. The highest, middle and the lowest value of the GWPs per unit crop grain yield occurred for the crop residue, farmyard manure and pure synthetic fertilizer treatments, respectively. Compared to the chemical fertilizer treatment, accordingly, organic material combined with chemical fertilizer application in rice season increased climatic impacts from CH4 and N20 emissions in a rice-winter wheat rotation system.
16881301	Taking Yuanjiang City (112 degrees 16' - 112 degrees 56' E, 28 degrees 42' - 29 degrees 11' N) in Hunan Province as an example, the changes of soil organic carbon content and its distribution in farmland soils in Dongting Lake region were investigated, based on the dense sampling in typical plots and the investigation of historical materials. The results showed that soil organic carbon in different land uses and cropping systems, such as rice/rice, rice, paddy-upland rotation, increased stably, but soil organic carbon in dry land induced in some extent. Mean soil organic carbon content in farmland soils of the typical sampling region in 2004 was (26.66 +/- 4.93)g x kg(-1). Compared with that in 1979,soil organic carbon content increased by 22.64%. In 1979,soil organic carbon content in paddy soil mainly ranged from 20 g x kg(-1) to 25 g x kg(-1) (frequency is 62.5% in all sampling plots), and in 2004 increased to 20-35 g x kg(-1) (frequency is 88.0%). This indicated that soils under different types of land use in Dongting Lake region could all store carbon, and organic carbon pool in farmland soils would play "sink" role in the cycle of atmosphere CO2.
16881316	The objective of study was to investigate effect of silicon on arsenic uptake by rice seedlings in two soils with different arsenic concentrations. The results show that the addition of silicon has little effect on shoot and root dry weights of rice seedlings. The addition of silicon did not affect shoot and root P concentrations of rice seedlings grown in low arsenic soil, but significantly increased shoot P concentrations on rice grown in high arsenic soil. Irrespective of the initial pH of K2SiO3 solution, the addition of silicon significantly decreased shoot and root As concentrations of rice seedlings compared with the control. For seedlings grown in low As-contaminated soil, As concentrations in shoot and root were reduced by 36%-59% and 15%-37% with the application of silicon, respectively. For seedlings grown in high As-contaminated soil, As concentrations in shoot and root were reduced by 42%-58% and 70%-82% with the application of silicon, respectively. These results are in agreement with our previous reports based on a solution culture experiment. Possible mechanisms of the effect of Si on As uptake was also discussed.
16881641	We have developed a two-phase approach for the synthesis of shape-controlled colloidal zirconia nanocrystals, including spherical-, teardrop-, rod-, and rice grain-shaped particles. We found that the key factors for controlling the shape were the reaction time, the nature of the capping agent, and the monomer concentration. We have analyzed the morphologies, crystallinity, optical properties, and structural features of the as-prepared ZrO2 nanoparticles by using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), high-resolution TEM, X-ray powder diffraction, and UV-vis absorption and fluorescence spectroscopy. The possible nucleation and growth process is also discussed.
16881690	The degradation rates of rice and corn starches with different contents of amylose treated in methanol containing 0.36% HCl at 25 degrees C for 1-15 days were evaluated by monitoring the weight average degree of polymerization of starch. A two-stage degradation pattern during acid-methanol treatment was found for the starches studied, which were the slow (first) and the rapid (second) degradation stages. Waxy starches showed a shorter time period of the first stage than that of nonwaxy starch. Rice starch showed a shorter time period of the first stage and a higher degradation rate of the second stage than the counterpart corn starch with similar amylose content. Despite the botanic source and amylose content of starch, the degradation rate of starch in the second stage significantly (p < 0.05) correlated to the S/L ratio (r = -0.886) and polydispersity (r = 0.859) of amylopectin branch chains of native starch.
16881702	The degradation of penoxsulam [2-(2,2-difluoroethoxy)-N-5,8-dimethoxy[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-C]pyrimidin-2-yl-6-(trifluoromethyl)benzene-sulfonamide] was studied in flasks simulating flooded rice field conditions using four representative rice field soils from the Sacramento Valley. Degradation half-lives (t(1/2) values) ranged between 2 and 13 days. Increased degradation rates were observed in flask systems with steeper redox gradients between the flooded soil layer and the overlaying water. Two transient metabolites were identified that were temporarily formed in amounts exceeding 5% of the total initial mass of penoxsulam. The results of high-performance liquid chromatography/(14)C radiodetection studies indicate that the degradation of the triazolopyrimidine system and its substituents is the main pathway of microbial transformation processes. Microbial activity, as measured by dehydrogenase activity, was not affected by penoxsulam concentrations corresponding to the proposed maximum annual use rate of 40 g active ingredient/ha.
16881908	Philippine complementary foods are predominantly plant-based, with a low content of readily available iron, zinc, and calcium, and a relatively high amount of phytate, a potent inhibitor of mineral absorption. Some of the phytate is water soluble, and hence can be removed by soaking. In this study we have compared the iron, zinc, and calcium content, and estimated iron and zinc bioavailability of rice- and maize-based Filipino complementary foods prepared with and without soaking and/or enrichment with chicken liver, egg yolk, small soft-boned fish, and mung bean grits. Analysis of iron, zinc, and calcium were performed by atomic absorption spectrometry, and phytate (based on hexa-(IP6) and penta-inositol phosphate (IP5) by HPLC; corresponding [Phy]/[Fe] and [Phy]/[Zn] molar ratios were calculated as predictors of iron and zinc bioavailability. Addition of chicken liver, followed by egg yolk, resulted in the greatest increases in iron and zinc content for both the rice- and maize-based complementary foods, whereas addition of small dried fish with bones had the greatest effect on calcium. The IP5 + IP6 content and [Phy]/[Zn] molar ratios were higher in the maize- than rice-based complementary foods, and were reduced by soaking, although only the maize plus mung bean grits, with and without soaking, had [Phy]/[Zn] molar ratios above 15. Enrichment with animal protein or soaking has the potential to enhance the content of absorbable iron, zinc, and probably calcium to varying degrees in rice- and maize-based Philippine complementary foods.
16883297	In order to evaluate the current arsenic exposure status and its determinants in Japan, we collected toenail samples from 212 subjects residing in a town with a population of 6,900 in Amami-Oshima Island in August 1999. We measured arsenic concentrations of the toenails using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. In addition, we examined the association of arsenic levels with lifestyles and dietary habits, including the consumption of fish, seaweed, and rice. The mean toenail arsenic level was 0.41 ppm (95% confidence interval, 0.36-0.47), which was about 3-fold higher than those observed in other populations of mainland Kagoshima. Arsenic levels were elevated among current smokers (mean = 0.65; 95% confidence interval, 0.32-1.29) when compared with non-smokers (mean = 0.40; 95% confidence interval, 0.34-0.46), and among the residents consuming 4 bowls or more, of rice every day (mean = 1.97; 95% confidence interval, 0.25-15.75) when compared to residents consuming 3 bowls or less (mean = 0.39; 95% confidence interval, 0.34-0.45). Sex, age, alcohol intake, fish consumption, or seaweed consumption was not associated with toenail arsenic concentration. Further studies seem warranted to examine the cause of relatively high arsenic levels in our study area.
16883824	To assess the potential ecological risk of transgenic Bt rice to non-target soil organisms in paddy field, transgenic crylAb rice KMD1 and KMD2 and their parental control rice line XS11 were planted in experimental fields, and collembolan species and their densities were investigated during grain-filling and post-harvest stages in 2003 to approximately 2004. By using an arthropod-sucking machine, two collembolan species, Entomobrya griseoolivata and Bourletiella christianseni, were collected from the leaf litter at soil surface during grain-filling stage (September,2003), and the population densities of E. griseoolivata in KMD1 and KMD2 paddy fields were significantly higher than those in XS11 paddy field. With bags contained rice stem-leaf litter and initially placed in the paddy field at harvest time (November,2003), four collembolan species, E. griseoolivata, B. christianseni, Hypogastrura matura and Isotoma monochaeta, were collected during post-harvest stages (April, 2004), and the densities of E. griseoolivata and H. matura in KMD1 and KMD2 paddy fields were also significantly higher than those in XS11 paddy field. The biomass loss of KMD1 and KMD2 stem-leaf litter was significantly greater than that of XS11's.
16883826	This paper studied the effects of triazophos, shachongshuang, abamectin, and Bt + imidacloprid on the insect pest-natural enemy community in early rice fields in the Yangtze-Huaihe region of Anhui Province. The results showed that all of the test insecticides had significant effects in controlling the growth of major insect pest populations. The average value of insect pest-natural enemy community diversity under effects of triazophos, shachongshuang, abamectin, and Bt + imidacloprid was 1.545, 1.562, 1.691 and 1.915, respectively, while that in control plot was 1.897. After two weeks of applying insecticides, the plots applied with shachongshuang and abamectin had a similar composition of insect pest-natural enemy community, but the community composition was significantly different between the plots applied with triazophos and Bt + imidacloprid. From the viewpoints of community stability and pest control, Bt + imidacloprid had the best effect, and shachongshuang and abamectin were better than triazophos.
16883833	Pot experiment showed that after 30 days of transgenic Bt rice planting and by the end of the growth season of transgenic Bt cotton, the contents of soil total C, total N, alkali-hydrolyzable N, and available P and S had no significant difference with the control, which suggested that there was a little disturbance in the cycle and balance of soil nutrients after a short period of transgenic Bt crops planting.
16883848	A hundred and ninety one representative brown rice samples from the Chinese Rice Genebank and the DH population derived from the cross of japonica upland rice IRAT109 with paddy rice Yuefu were selected for this study. Their protein content range was 5.90%-14.50%. Near-infrared diffusive spectroscopy (NIDRS) and partial least square (PLS) were used to determine protein content with different wavelength ranges and data preprocessing methods for regression and information extraction. The object function [R/(1+RMSECV)] of quantitative model was defined, and the samples of calibration and validation tests were classified by projective distribution of PLS loadings. These methods were applied to the optimization of the calibration model. It is demonstrated that the calibration model developed by the spectral data pretreatment of the first derivative + standard vector normalization with the same spectral region (5 000-9 000 cm(-1) resulted in the best determination of protein content in brown rice when the maximum values of the object function were reached. The maximum values of the object functions of calibration and validation sets were 0.701 and 0.687, respectively. Projective distributions of PLS loadings were used to validate the models, and the result was the same as that of validating model by object function [R/(1+RMSECV)].
16885296	Flooded rice fields have become a model system for the study of soil microbial ecology. In Italian rice fields, in particular, aspects from biogeochemistry to molecular ecology have been studied, but the impact of protistan grazing on the structure and function of the prokaryotic community has not been examined yet. We compared an untreated control soil with a gamma-radiation-sterilized soil that had been reinoculated with a natural bacterial assemblage. In order to verify that the observed effects were due to protistan grazing and did not result from sterilization, we set up a third set of microcosms containing sterilized soil that had been reinoculated with natural assemblage bacteria plus protists. The spatial and temporal changes in the protistan and prokaryotic communities were examined by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) analysis, respectively, both based on the small-subunit gene. Sequences retrieved from DGGE bands were preferentially affiliated with Cercozoa and other bacteriovorous flagellates. Without protists, the level of total DNA increased with incubation time, indicating that the level of the microbial biomass was elevated. Betaproteobacteria were preferentially preyed upon, while low-G + C-content gram-positive bacteria became more dominant under grazing pressure. The bacterial diversity detectable by T-RFLP analysis was greater in the presence of protists. The level of extractable NH4+ was lower and the level of extractable SO4(2-) was higher without protists, indicating that nitrogen mineralization and SO4(2-) reduction were stimulated by protists. Most of these effects were more obvious in the partially oxic surface layer (0 to 3 mm), but they could also be detected in the anoxic subsurface layer (10 to 13 mm). Our observations fit well into the overall framework developed for protistan grazing, but with some modifications pertinent to the wetland situation: O2 was a major control, and O2 availability may have limited directly and indirectly the development of protists. Although detectable in the lower anoxic layer, grazing effects were much more obvious in the partially oxic surface layer.
16885928	To evaluate the dietary fiber (DF) intake pattern among the Japanese general population. We performed a dietary survey among the general population in northern Japan to evaluate the intake patterns. DF intake was calculated by substituting the DF content of each food in the Dietary Fiber Table for the intake of each food from this dietary survey. Five hundred and seventy-seven subjects participated in the study, 198 men and 379 women. In subjects with higher DF intakes the origins of the DF that were from all food groups, but with the notable exception of rice. The contribution of the seaweed group was of particular interest. From multiple regression analysis, as for food group, seaweeds showed the highest positive correlation with DF intake in both genders, followed by vegetables, pulses, fruits. On the other hand, rice showed the negative correlation with DF intake in both genders. As for life factor, body mass index showed the negative correlation with DF intake in women. Seaweed, a typical Japanese food, was most related to the increase in DF intake for the Japanese general population, whereas rice, the Japanese staple, had a small influence on decreased DF intake.
16887164	An increasingly large number of bacteriophage genomes are being sequenced each year. What is an efficient experimental and computational procedure to analyze transcription strategies of newly sequenced novel bacteriophages? We address this issue using an example of bacteriophage Xp10, which infects rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae. This phage is particularly challenging for analysis, since part of its genome is jointly transcribed by two (host and viral) RNA polymerases. To understand the roles played by the two RNA polymerases, we developed a novel method of data analysis which combines quantitative analysis of Xp10 global gene expression data and kinetic modeling of the infection process. To generalize our approach, we discuss how our method can be applied to other systems and argue that genomic array experiments combined with the methods of data analysis that we present provide an efficient way to analyze gene expression strategies of novel bacteriophages.
16887243	(137)Cs and (90)Sr background levels in soil and plant around Tianwan Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) are reported. Eighty-four soil samples and 44 plant samples were collected from March 2000 to April 2002. The samples were analyzed by gamma spectrometry and radiochemical separation procedure to quantify (137)Cs and (90)Sr radioactivities. The concentrations (Bqkg(-1) dry weight) have been observed in the range of 0.6-1.6 for (90)Sr and 1.4-6.9 for (137)Cs in soils, their average values are 1.0+/-0.3 and 4.6+/-1.6, respectively, which are relatively lower than the reported values in neighboring countries. The mean concentrations (in Bqkg(-1) fresh weight except for tea and grass which is expressed in Bqkg(-1) dry weight) of (137)Cs and (90)Sr are 0.1+/-0.03 and 7.7+/-4.1 in pine needle, 0.27+/-0.05 and 3.0+/-1.1 in tea, 0.65+/-0.19 and 2.1+/-0.3 in grass, 0.033+/-0.021 and 0.084+/-0.045 in wheat, 0.019+/-0.01 and 0.23+/-0.06 in China cabbage, and 0.009+/-0.007 and 0.024+/-0.084 in rice, respectively. The pine needle and tea can be regarded as indicator species for (90)Sr and (137)Cs. The soil-to-plant transfer factor (TF) values of (90)Sr and (137)Cs are, respectively, 0.022 and 0.031 for rice, 0.066 and 3.83 for China cabbage, 0.0088 and 0.089 for wheat, and 0.037 and 0.56 for grass.
16887318	Plants respond to both biotic and abiotic stresses through a common signaling system to provide defense and protection against many adverse environments. Many genes/QTLs governing resistance to both biotic and abiotic stresses have been studied and mapped in rice. Sub1, a major QTL for submergence tolerance is collocated with a gene Gm1 for gall midge resistance on chromosome 9 (Region 1). Likewise a bigger region on chromosome 5 (Region 2) has a minor QTL for submergence tolerance collocated with genes for bacterial blight resistance. Utilizing the rice sequence and annotation data (TIGR) and rice genome annotation project database (RAP-DB), we wanted to know the kinds of genes underlying these two chromosomal regions where genes/QTL governing tolerance to both biotic and abiotic stresses are collocated. We also analyzed the pattern of distribution of these genes across the BAC/PAC clones spanning the region so that candidate genes can be short listed for a functional analysis. Genes known to have a role in submergence tolerance were present in both the regions. Region 1, had a unique transcription factor like trithorax protein, which is a positional candidate gene for submergence tolerance. Pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) gene for alcohol fermentation and cation transporting ATPase c-terminal domain are likely candidates for submergence QTL in Region 2. Genes such as SKP1 and elicitor induced cytochrome p450 associated with tissue necrosis and insect resistance were found in region 1. Multiple copies of ORFs for signal transduction proteins, transcription factors, genes for systemic acquired resistance, Ubiquitin proteins and pathogen elicitor identification and degrading proteins were located as a cluster in Region 2, where bacterial blight resistance genes mapped. Validation of the data obtained from TIGR with other databases (RAP and KOME) confirmed our findings. The functional role of some of the significant candidate genes needs to be established. Allele/gene specific markers can then be designed for use in MAS thus enhancing durable tolerance/resistance faster.
16887895	To clarify the molecular mechanism that regulates iron (Fe) acquisition in graminaceous plants, a time-course analysis of gene expression during Fe deficiency stress was conducted using a rice 22K oligo-DNA microarray. Twenty-one genes for proteins that function in gene regulation were induced by Fe deficiency. Of these genes, a putative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor gene, named OsIRO2, was strongly expressed in both roots and shoots during Fe deficiency stress. The expression of OsIRO2 was induced exclusively by Fe deficiency, and not by deficiencies in other metals. Expression of the barley HvIRO2 gene, which is a homologue of OsIRO2, was also induced by Fe deficiency. An in silico search revealed that IRO2 is highly conserved among graminaceous plants, which include wheat, sorghum, and maize. The cyclic amplification and selection of targets (CASTing) technique revealed that OsIRO2 bound preferentially to the sequence 5'-ACCACGTGGTTTT-3', and the electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed 5'-CACGTGG-3' as the core sequence for OsIRO2 binding. Sequences similar to the OsIRO2-binding sequence were found upstream of several genes that are involved in Fe acquisition, such as OsNAS1, OsNAS3, OsIRT1, OsFDH, OsAPT1, and IDS3. The core sequence of the OsIRO2-binding sequence occurred more frequently in the upstream regions of Fe deficiency-inducible genes than in the corresponding regions of non-inducible genes. These results suggest that IRO2 is involved in the regulation of gene expression under Fe-deficient conditions.
16889974	In this study, the gene for a rice (Oryza sativa L.) 90 kDa heat shock protein (rHsp90, GenBank accession no. AB037681) was identified by screening rice root cDNAs that were up-regulated under carbonate (NaHCO(3)) stress using the method of differential display, and cloned. The open-reading-frame of rHsp90-cDNA was predicted to encode a protein containing 810 amino acids, which showed high similarity to proteins in Hordeum vulgare (accession no. X67960) and Catharathus roseus (accession no. L14594). Further studies showed that rHsp90 mRNA accumulated following exposure to several abiotic stresses, including salts (NaCl, NaHCO(3) and Na(2)CO(3)), desiccation (using polyethylene glycol), high pH (8.0 and 11.0) and high temperature (42 and 50 degrees C). Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) over-expressing rHsp90 exhibited greater tolerance to NaCl, Na(2)CO(3) and NaHCO(3) and tobacco seedlings over-expressing rHsp90 could tolerate salt concentrations as high as 200 mM NaCl, whereas untransformed control seedlings couldn't. These results suggest that rHsp90 plays an important role in multiple environmental stresses.
16890347	Root uptake of atrazine (ATR) by rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) from nutrient solution was investigated with exposure periods of 48, 96, and 240h. A similar ATR uptake was carried out with two co-existing organic compounds (o-chlorophenol (CP) and 2,4-dichlorophenol (DCP)) with 48h exposure. In contact with the seedlings, the ATR level in nutrient solution decreased sharply during the early exposure and then reached relatively steady levels after 48h. It was observed that the ATR levels within whole seedlings approached the estimated equilibrium partition limits in about 48h, according to the partition-limited model utilizing the measured plant water and organic matter contents and the ATR partition coefficients with whole seedlings. However, when roots and shoots were consisted separately, the detected ATR levels in roots were lower than estimated equilibrium limit while the levels in shoots exceeded the equilibrium limit. The data with roots suggested the occurrence of rapid ATR degradation in roots. The results with shoots are intrinsically consistent with the suggested complex formation of ATR with free metal ions in shoots. The ATR levels in roots and shoots varied to a moderate extent when the seedlings were exposed to different levels of ATR-CP-DCP mixtures. The variation results presumably from the interference of coexisting CP and DCP and the phytotoxicity of the mixed chemicals.
16891402	One of the mechanisms plants have developed for chloroplast protection against oxidative damage involves a 2-Cys peroxiredoxin, which has been proposed to be reduced by ferredoxin and plastid thioredoxins, Trx x and CDSP32, the FTR/Trx pathway. We show that rice (Oryza sativa) chloroplast NADPH THIOREDOXIN REDUCTASE (NTRC), with a thioredoxin domain, uses NADPH to reduce the chloroplast 2-Cys peroxiredoxin BAS1, which then reduces hydrogen peroxide. The presence of both NTR and Trx-like domains in a single polypeptide is absolutely required for the high catalytic efficiency of NTRC. An Arabidopsis thaliana knockout mutant for NTRC shows irregular mesophyll cell shape, abnormal chloroplast structure, and unbalanced BAS1 redox state, resulting in impaired photosynthesis rate under low light. Constitutive expression of wild-type NTRC in mutant transgenic lines rescued this phenotype. Moreover, prolonged darkness followed by light/dark incubation produced an increase in hydrogen peroxide and lipid peroxidation in leaves and accelerated senescence of NTRC-deficient plants. We propose that NTRC constitutes an alternative system for chloroplast protection against oxidative damage, using NADPH as the source of reducing power. Since no light-driven reduced ferredoxin is produced at night, the NTRC-BAS1 pathway may be a key detoxification system during darkness, with NADPH produced by the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway as the source of reducing power.
16891544	The two-component system (TCS), which works on the principle of histidine-aspartate phosphorelay signaling, is known to play an important role in diverse physiological processes in lower organisms and has recently emerged as an important signaling system in plants. Employing the tools of bioinformatics, we have characterized TCS signaling candidate genes in the genome of Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica. We present a complete overview of TCS gene families in O. sativa, including gene structures, conserved motifs, chromosome locations, and phylogeny. Our analysis indicates a total of 51 genes encoding 73 putative TCS proteins. Fourteen genes encode 22 putative histidine kinases with a conserved histidine and other typical histidine kinase signature sequences, five phosphotransfer genes encoding seven phosphotransfer proteins, and 32 response regulator genes encoding 44 proteins. The variations seen between gene and protein numbers are assumed to result from alternative splicing. These putative proteins have high homology with TCS members that have been shown experimentally to participate in several important physiological phenomena in plants, such as ethylene and cytokinin signaling and phytochrome-mediated responses to light. We conclude that the overall architecture of the TCS machinery in O. sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana is similar, and our analysis provides insights into the conservation and divergence of this important signaling machinery in higher plants.
16895597	With the completion of the genome sequence for rice (Oryza sativa L.), the focus of rice genomics research has shifted to the comparison of the rice genome with genomes of other species for gene cloning, breeding, and evolutionary studies. The genus Oryza includes 23 species that shared a common ancestor 8-10 million years ago making this an ideal model for investigations into the processes underlying domestication, as many of the Oryza species are still undergoing domestication. This study integrates high-throughput, hybridization-based markers with BAC end sequence and fingerprint data to construct physical maps of rice chromosome 1 orthologues in two wild Oryza species. Similar studies were undertaken in Sorghum bicolor, a species which diverged from cultivated rice 40-50 million years ago. Overgo markers, in conjunction with fingerprint and BAC end sequence data, were used to build sequence-ready BAC contigs for two wild Oryza species. The markers drove contig merges to construct physical maps syntenic to rice chromosome 1 in the wild species and provided evidence for at least one rearrangement on chromosome 1 of the O. sativa versus Oryza officinalis comparative map. When rice overgos were aligned to available S. bicolor sequence, 29% of the overgos aligned with three or fewer mismatches; of these, 41% gave positive hybridization signals. Overgo hybridization patterns supported colinearity of loci in regions of sorghum chromosome 3 and rice chromosome 1 and suggested that a possible genomic inversion occurred in this syntenic region in one of the two genomes after the divergence of S. bicolor and O. sativa. The results of this study emphasize the importance of identifying conserved sequences in the reference sequence when designing overgo probes in order for those probes to hybridize successfully in distantly related species. As interspecific markers, overgos can be used successfully to construct physical maps in species which diverged less than 8 million years ago, and can be used in a more limited fashion to examine colinearity among species which diverged as much as 40 million years ago. Additionally, overgos are able to provide evidence of genomic rearrangements in comparative physical mapping studies.
16895613	Serine proteases are one of the largest groups of proteolytic enzymes found across all kingdoms of life and are associated with several essential physiological pathways. The availability of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa) genome sequences has permitted the identification and comparison of the repertoire of serine protease-like proteins in the two plant species. Despite the differences in genome sizes between Arabidopsis and rice, we identified a very similar number of serine protease-like proteins in the two plant species (206 and 222, respectively). Nearly 40% of the above sequences were identified as potential orthologues. Atypical members could be identified in the plant genomes for Deg, Clp, Lon, rhomboid proteases and species-specific members were observed for the highly populated subtilisin and serine carboxypeptidase families suggesting multiple lateral gene transfers. DegP proteases, prolyl oligopeptidases, Clp proteases and rhomboids share a significantly higher percentage orthology between the two genomes indicating substantial evolutionary divergence was set prior to speciation. Single domain architectures and paralogues for several putative subtilisins, serine carboxypeptidases and rhomboids suggest they may have been recruited for additional roles in secondary metabolism with spatial and temporal regulation. The analysis reveals some domain architectures unique to either or both of the plant species and some inactive proteases, like in rhomboids and Clp proteases, which could be involved in chaperone function. The systematic analysis of the serine protease-like proteins in the two plant species has provided some insight into the possible functional associations of previously uncharacterised serine protease-like proteins. Further investigation of these aspects may prove beneficial in our understanding of similar processes in commercially significant crop plant species.
16895888	Measurement of the major variables of zinc homeostasis is an essential prerequisite for estimating human zinc requirements, which currently require a factorial approach. The data required for this approach have not been available for toddlers, whose requirements have been estimated by extrapolation from other age groups. The objective of the study was to measure key variables of zinc homeostasis in rural and small-town Chinese toddlers. Zinc stable-isotope tracers were administered intravenously and orally with all meals for 1 d to 43 toddlers. Subsequent metabolic collections in the homes included duplicate diets, quantitative fecal collections, and spot urine sampling. Fractional absorption of zinc (FAZ) was measured by a dual-isotope tracer ratio technique, and endogenous fecal zinc (EFZ) was measured by an isotope dilution technique. No group or sex differences were found. Therefore, results were combined for 43 toddlers aged 19-25 mo whose major food staple was white rice. Selected results (x+/- SD) were 1.86 +/- 0.55 mg total dietary Zn/d; 0.35 +/- 0.12 FAZ; 0.63 +/- 0.24 mg total absorbed Zn/d; 0.67 +/- 0.23 mg EFZ/d; and 65.0 +/- 8.3 microg plasma Zn/dL. The molar ratio of dietary phytate to zinc was 2.7:1. The mean intake and absorption of zinc in this population are low in comparison with estimated average dietary and physiologic requirements for zinc, and plasma zinc values are consistent with zinc deficiency. Intestinal losses of endogenous zinc exceed previous estimates for toddlers, and only modest evidence exists of conservation in response to low zinc intake and absorption.
16896230	The basic/helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors and their homologs form a large family in plant and animal genomes. They are known to play important roles in the specification of tissue types in animals. On the other hand, few plant bHLH proteins have been studied functionally. Recent completion of whole genome sequences of model plants Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) allows genome-wide analysis and comparison of the bHLH family in flowering plants. We have identified 167 bHLH genes in the rice genome, and their phylogenetic analysis indicates that they form well-supported clades, which are defined as subfamilies. In addition, sequence analysis of potential DNA-binding activity, the sequence motifs outside the bHLH domain, and the conservation of intron/exon structural patterns further support the evolutionary relationships among these proteins. The genome distribution of rice bHLH genes strongly supports the hypothesis that genome-wide and tandem duplication contributed to the expansion of the bHLH gene family, consistent with the birth-and-death theory of gene family evolution. Bioinformatics analysis suggests that rice bHLH proteins can potentially participate in a variety of combinatorial interactions, endowing them with the capacity to regulate a multitude of transcriptional programs. In addition, similar expression patterns suggest functional conservation between some rice bHLH genes and their close Arabidopsis homologs.
16896505	Monacolin K is a secondary metabolite produced by Monascus species. It was found that it is able to decrease cholesterol levels. In this study, red mold rice (RMR) was added to the diet of Arbor Acres broiler chickens, and the cholesterol level in meat, as well as the concentration of triglyceride, the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in the serum were evaluated. Four-week-old broilers are studied and divided into four groups in that each group contains 15 subjects. A 3-week experimental feeding trial was conducted in which three groups of broilers were fed 2.0, 5.0, and 8.0% of RMR (RMR groups) within their diet, respectively, and the result was compared to the control group. The results indicated that for each RMR group, the cholesterol content was significantly lower than that of the control group; in addition, their meat products contain higher level of unsaturated fatty acids. Triglyceride and cholesterol concentration in serum was also found to be considerably lower in RMR groups when compared to control group. Finally, in RMR groups, HDL-C/LDL-C and HDL-C/cholesterol ratios were all higher than those of the control group. In short, the results demonstrated that the cholesterol levels could be lowered by adding RMR to the diet of chickens.
16896530	gamma-Aminobutyrate transaminase (GABA-T) catalyzes the conversion of GABA to succinic semialdehyde. Using differential display PCR and cDNA library screening, a full-length GABA-T cDNA (OsGABA-T) was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa) leaves infected with an incompatible race of Magnaporthe grisea. The deduced amino acid sequence comprises 483 amino acid residues and shares 85-69% identity with GABA-T sequences from other plants. OsGABA-T expression is induced by blast fungus infection, mechanical wounding and ultraviolet radiation in rice leaves and is not detected in normal rice organs. This gene is also induced by defense signal molecules such as salicylic acid and abscisic acid, but not by jasmonic acid. Our data suggest that OsGABA-T (GABA shunt) may play a role in restricting the levels of cell death during the host-pathogen interaction.
16896793	Previous research has demonstrated that the thermo-sensitive genic male-sterile (TGMS) gene in rice was regulated by temperature. TGMS rice is important to hybrid rice production because the application of the TGMS system in two-line breeding is cost-effective, simple, efficient and overcomes the limitations of the cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) system. AnnongS is the first discovered and deeply studied TGMS rice line in China. Previous studies have suggested that AnnongS-1 and Y58S, two derivative TGMS lines of AnnongS, were both controlled by a single recessive gene named tms5, which was genetically mapped on chromosome 2. In the current study, three populations (AnnongS-1 x Nanjing11, Y58S x Q611, and Y58S x Guanghui122) were developed to investigate the tms5 gene molecular map. Analysis of recombination events of sterile samples, utilizing 125 probes covering the tms5 region, suggested that the tms5 gene was physically mapped to a 19 kb DNA fragment between two markers, 4039-1 and 4039-2, located on the BAC clone AP004039. Following the construction of a physical map between the two markers, ONAC023, a member of the NAC (NAM-ATAF-CUC-related) gene family, was identified as the candidate of the tms5 gene.
16897088	Mannans are widespread hemicellulosic polysaccharides in plant cell walls. Hydrolysis of the internal beta-1,4-D: -mannopyranosyl linkage in the backbone of mannans is catalyzed by endo-beta-mannanase. Plant endo-beta-mannanase has been well studied for its function in seed germination. Its involvement in other plant biological processes, however, remains poorly characterized or elusive. The completed genome sequences of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), rice (Oryza sativa), and poplar (Populus trichocarpa) provide an opportunity to conduct comparative genomic analysis of endo-beta-mannanase genes in these three species. In silico sequence analysis led to the identification of eight, nine and 11 endo-beta-mannanase genes in the genomes of Arabidopsis, rice, and poplar, respectively. Sequence comparisons revealed the conserved amino acids and motifs that are critical for the active site of endo-beta-mannanases. Intron/exon structure analysis in conjunction with phylogenetic analysis implied that both intron gain and intron loss has played roles in the evolution of endo-beta-mannanase genes. The phylogenetic analysis that included the endo-beta-mannanases from plants and other organisms implied that plant endo-beta-mannanases have an ancient evolutionary origin. Comprehensive expression analysis of all Arabidopsis and rice endo-beta-mannanase genes showed divergent expression patterns of individual genes, suggesting that the enzymes encoded by these genes, while carrying out the same biochemical reaction, are involved in diverse biological processes.
16897470	A tapetum-specific gene, RTS, has been isolated by differential screening of a cDNA library from rice panicles. RTS is a unique gene in the rice genome. RNA blot analysis and in situ hybridization indicates that this gene is predominantly expressed in the anther's tapetum during meiosis and disappears before anthesis. RTS has no introns and encodes a putative polypeptide of 94 amino acids with a hydrophobic N-terminal region. The nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence of the gene do not show significant homology to any known sequences. However, a sequence in the promoter region, GAATTTGTTA, differs only by one or two nucleotides from one of the conserved motifs in the promoter region of two pollen-specific genes of tomato. Several other sequence motifs found in other anther-specific promoters were also identified in the promoter of the RTS gene. Transgenic and antisense RNA approaches revealed that RTS gene is required for male fertility in rice. The promoter region of RTS, when fused to the Bacillus amyloliquefaciens ribonuclease gene, barnase, or the antisense of the RTS gene, is able to drive tissue-specific expression of both genes in rice, creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera L.) and Arabidopsis, conferring male sterility to the transgenic plants. Light and near-infrared confocal microscopy of cross-sections through developing flowers of male-sterile transgenics shows that tissue-specific expression of barnase or the antisense RTS genes interrupts tapetal development, resulting in deformed non-viable pollen. These results demonstrate a critical role of the RTS gene in pollen development in rice and the versatile application of the RTS gene promoter in directing anther-specific gene expression in both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, pointing to a potential for exploiting this gene and its promoter for engineering male sterility for hybrid production of various plant species.
16897471	The Arabidopsis ETO1 protein is a negative regulator of ethylene biosynthesis. It specifically inhibits the enzyme activity of type 2 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthases (ACC synthases or ACS) and promotes their degradation by a proteasome-dependent pathway. To further understand the function of the ETO1 family in the plant kingdom, we cloned a cDNA of LeEOL1 (Lycopersicon esculentum ETO 1- LIKE 1), an ETO1 homolog from tomato. LeEOL1 encodes a putative protein with domain architecture conserved in the Arabidopsis ETO1/EOL1/EOL2 proteins and in the predicted rice EOL proteins. LeEOL1 is expressed in leaf, stem, root, flower, and the full ripe stage of fruit, suggesting diverse regulatory roles in the development of tomato. Yeast two-hybrid analysis revealed specific interactions between LeEOL1 and type 2 ACC synthases. When the C-terminal 14 amino acids (TOE; target of ETO1) of LE-ACS3 specific to type 2 ACC synthases were fused to a type 1 ACS, LE-ACS2, at the corresponding position, it allowed LE-ACS2 to strongly interact with LeEOL1. A GFP-TOE(LE-ACS3) fusion protein expressed in rice calli and in the roots of wild-type Arabidopsis showed reduced stability compared to native GFP. However, the fluorescence of GFP-TOE(LE-ACS3) was comparable to that of the native GFP in Arabidopsis eto1-4 mutant. Furthermore, MG132 treatment significantly enhanced the fluorescence of GFP-TOE(LE-ACS3) in the roots of wild-type Arabidopsis. These results suggest that the ETO1-family-mediated ACS protein degradation pathway is conserved in both monocots and dicots, and that TOE acts as a protein destabilization signal recognized by the ETO1 protein family.
16897489	Alternative splicing of introns is essential to ensure the complexity of mammalian genome functions. In particular, the generation of a high number of different isoforms by alternative splicing is an important characteristic of genes coding for signalling proteins such as mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPKs). This is thought to allow these proteins to transduce multiple stimuli in a highly regulated manner. Plant genes are also subjected to alternative splicing. Nevertheless, clear examples of the functional consequences of this phenomenon are still scarce in plants. MIK is a maize gene coding for a GCK-like MAP4K that can be activated by interaction with maize atypical receptor kinase (MARK), an atypical receptor kinase. Here we show that MIK is subjected to alternative splicing. Expression of MIK leads to, at least, 4 different mature mRNAs that accumulate with particular expression profiles during maize development. Our results show that the polypeptides encoded by the different MIK mRNAs display different kinase activity and are differentially activated by interaction with the MARK receptor. Two MIK isoforms display constitutive kinase activity, one isoform is inactive but can be activated by MARK, and the fourth MIK isoform is inactive and cannot be activated by MARK. Our results constitute a clear example of the biochemical consequences of alternative splicing in plants. The selective conservation during evolution of the intron-exon structure of the region coding for the regulator domain of MIK, as well as the maintenance in maize, rice and Arabidopsis of the alternative splicing of some of these introns, are strong indications of its functional importance.
16897522	Biodiversity studies in ecology often begin with the fitting and documentation of sampling data. This study is conducted to make function approximation on sampling data and to document the sampling information using artificial neural network algorithms, based on the invertebrate data sampled in the irrigated rice field. Three types of sampling data, i.e., the curve species richness vs. the sample size, the curve rarefaction, and the curve mean abundance of newly sampled species vs.the sample size, are fitted and documented using BP (Backpropagation) network and RBF (Radial Basis Function) network. As the comparisons, The Arrhenius model, and rarefaction model, and power function are tested for their ability to fit these data. The results show that the BP network and RBF network fit the data better than these models with smaller errors. BP network and RBF network can fit non-linear functions (sampling data) with specified accuracy and don't require mathematical assumptions. In addition to the interpolation, BP network is used to extrapolate the functions and the asymptote of the sampling data can be drawn. BP network cost a longer time to train the network and the results are always less stable compared to the RBF network. RBF network require more neurons to fit functions and generally it may not be used to extrapolate the functions. The mathematical function for sampling data can be exactly fitted using artificial neural network algorithms by adjusting the desired accuracy and maximum iterations. The total numbers of functional species of invertebrates in the tropical irrigated rice field are extrapolated as 140 to 149 using trained BP network, which are similar to the observed richness.
16898765	The accuracy of three force fields for predicting the physical properties of dimethylnitramine (DMNA) has been investigated by using molecular dynamics simulations. The Sorescu, Rice, and Thompson (SRT) (J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 798) rigid-molecule, flexible generalized AMBER (J. Comput. Chem. 2004, 25, 1157), and Smith et al. flexible force fields (J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 705) were tested. The density, lattice parameters, isotherm, and melting point of DMNA are calculated using classical molecular dynamics. Except for the melting point, the predictions of the three force fields are in reasonable agreement with experimental values. The calculated thermodynamic melting points (Tmp) for the SRT, AMBER, and Smith et al. force fields are 380, 360, and 260 K, respectively. The experimental value is 331 K. Modifications of the torsional barriers in the AMBER force field resulted in Tmp = 346 K, in good agreement with the experimental value of 331 K. The calculated lattice parameters and bulk modulus are also improved with the modifications of the AMBER potential. The results indicate that, although not sufficiently accurate without modifications, the general force fields such as AMBER provide the basis for developing force fields that correctly predict the physical properties of nitramines.
16900186
16900200	Most Oryza sativa cultivars die within a week of complete submergence--a major constraint to rice production in south and southeast Asia that causes annual losses of over US 1 billion dollars and affects disproportionately the poorest farmers in the world. A few cultivars, such as the O. sativa ssp. indica cultivar FR13A, are highly tolerant and survive up to two weeks of complete submergence owing to a major quantitative trait locus designated Submergence 1 (Sub1) near the centromere of chromosome 9 (refs 3, 4, 5-6). Here we describe the identification of a cluster of three genes at the Sub1 locus, encoding putative ethylene response factors. Two of these genes, Sub1B and Sub1C, are invariably present in the Sub1 region of all rice accessions analysed. In contrast, the presence of Sub1A is variable. A survey identified two alleles within those indica varieties that possess this gene: a tolerance-specific allele named Sub1A-1 and an intolerance-specific allele named Sub1A-2. Overexpression of Sub1A-1 in a submergence-intolerant O. sativa ssp. japonica conferred enhanced tolerance to the plants, downregulation of Sub1C and upregulation of Alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (Adh1), indicating that Sub1A-1 is a primary determinant of submergence tolerance. The FR13A Sub1 locus was introgressed into a widely grown Asian rice cultivar using marker-assisted selection. The new variety maintains the high yield and other agronomic properties of the recurrent parent and is tolerant to submergence. Cultivation of this variety is expected to provide protection against damaging floods and increase crop security for farmers.
16900577	Agricultural insecticides can affect mosquito production in rice fields by controlling mosquitoes, disrupting biological control or contributing to selection of insecticide resistance. The duration of insecticidal activity of the pyrethroid lambda-cyhalothrin was quantified on predatory insects in rice fields and on three kinds of mosquito larva: a pyrethroid-susceptible strain of Culex tarsalis Coquillet, a pyrethroid-resistant strain of Cx pipiens L. (sensu lato) and non-resistant Cx pipiens s.l. Lambda-cyhalothrin killed most caged, susceptible mosquitoes for up to 21 days. It killed fewer resistant Cx pipiens s.l., but suppressed their survival for over a week. Lambda-cyhalothrin suppressed field populations of predatory insects through day 29. Agricultural use of lambda-cyhalothrin can provide incidental mosquito control. However, the pyrethroid persisted in sediment and gradually decreased in activity, which could contribute to selection of pyrethroid-resistant mosquitoes. Because caged mosquitoes showed good survival before predators recovered, disruption of biological control is possible. It is therefore advisable for growers and mosquito control agencies to communicate about pesticide use.
16901582	Rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) were incubated at 5-30 degrees C for 48 h and the effect of temperature on ethanolic fermentation in the seedlings was investigated in terms of low-temperature adaptation. Activities of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH, EC 1.1.1.1) and pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC, EC 4.1.1.1) in roots and shoots of the seedlings were low at temperatures of 20-30 degrees C, whereas temperatures of 5, 7.5 and 10 degrees C significantly increased ADH and PDC activities in the roots and shoots. Temperatures of 5-10 degrees C also increased ethanol concentrations in the roots and shoots. The ethanol concentrations in the roots and shoots at 7.5 degrees C were 16- and 12-times greater than those in the roots and shoots at 25 degrees C, respectively. These results indicate that low temperatures (5-10 degrees C) induced ethanolic fermentation in the roots and shoots of the seedlings. Ethanol is known to prevent lipid degradation in plant membrane, and increased membrane-lipid fluidization. In addition, an ADH inhibitor, 4-methylpyrazole, decreased low-temperature tolerance in roots and shoots of rice seedlings and this reduction in the tolerance was recovered by exogenous applied ethanol. Therefore, production of ethanol by ethanolic fermentation may lead to low-temperature adaptation in rice plants by altering the physical properties of membrane lipids.
16901716	The Class II fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolase from the Rice Blast causative agent Magnaporthe grisea was subcloned in the Escherichia coli vector pT7-7. The enzyme was overexpressed using fed-batch fermentation in a small bench-top reactor. A total of 275 g of cells and 1.3 g of highly purified enzyme with a specific activity of 70 U/mg were obtained from a 1.5L culture. The purified enzyme is a homodimer of 39.6 kDa subunits with a zinc ion at the active site. Kinetic characterization indicates that the enzyme has a K(m) of 51 microM, a k(cat) of 46 s(-1), and a pH optimum of 7.8 for fructose 1,6-bisphosphate cleavage. The fermentation system procedure reported exemplifies the potential of using a lab-scale bioreactor for the large scale production of recombinant enzymes.
16901985	Tandemly arrayed genes (TAGs) play an important functional and physiological role in the genome. Most previous studies have focused on individual TAG families in a few species, yet a broad characterization of TAGs is not available. Here we identified all TAGs in the genomes of humans, mouse, and rat and performed a comprehensive analysis of TAG distribution, TAG sizes, TAG orientations and intergenic distances, and TAG functions. TAGs account for about 14-17% of all genes in the genome and nearly one-third of all duplicated genes, highlighting the predominant role that tandem duplication plays in gene duplication. For all species, TAG distribution is highly heterogeneous along chromosomes and some chromosomes are enriched with TAG forests, whereas others are enriched with TAG deserts. The majority of TAGs are of size 2 for all genomes, similar to the previous findings in Caenorhabditis elegans, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Oryza sativa, suggesting that it is a rather general phenomenon in eukaryotes. The comparison with the genome patterns shows that TAG members have a significantly higher proportion of parallel gene orientation in all species, corroborating Graham's claim that parallel orientation is the preferred form of orientation in TAGs. Moreover, TAG members with parallel orientation tend to be closer to each other than all neighboring genes in the genome with parallel orientation. The analyses of Gene Ontology function indicate that genes with receptor or binding activities are significantly overrepresented by TAGs. Computer simulation reveals that random gene rearrangements have little effect on the statistics of TAGs for all genomes. Finally, the average proportion of TAGs shows a trend of increase with the increase of family sizes, although the correlation between TAG proportions in individual families and family sizes is not significant.
16902087	Maize (Zea mays or corn), both a major food source and an important cytogenetic model, evolved from a tetraploid that arose about 4.8 million years ago (Mya). As a result, maize has extensive duplicated regions within its genome. We have sequenced the two copies of one such region, generating 7.8 Mb of sequence spanning 17.4 cM of the short arm of chromosome 1 and 6.6 Mb (25.6 cM) from the long arm of chromosome 9. Rice, which did not undergo a similar whole genome duplication event, has only one orthologous region (4.9 Mb) on the short arm of chromosome 3, and can be used as reference for the maize homoeologous regions. Alignment of the three regions allowed identification of syntenic blocks, and indicated that the maize regions have undergone differential contraction in genic and intergenic regions and expansion by the insertion of retrotransposable elements. Approximately 9% of the predicted genes in each duplicated region are completely missing in the rice genome, and almost 20% have moved to other genomic locations. Predicted genes within these regions tend to be larger in maize than in rice, primarily because of the presence of predicted genes in maize with larger introns. Interestingly, the general gene methylation patterns in the maize homoeologous regions do not appear to have changed with contraction or expansion of their chromosomes. In addition, no differences in methylation of single genes and tandemly repeated gene copies have been detected. These results, therefore, provide new insights into the diploidization of polyploid species.
16902336	Human milk provides proteins that benefit newborn infants. They not only provide amino acids, but also facilitate the absorption of nutrients, stimulate growth and development of the intestine, modulate immune function, and aid in the digestion of other nutrients. Breastfed infants have a lower prevalence of infections than formula-fed infants. Since many women in industrialized countries choose not to breastfeed, and an increasing proportion of women in developing countries are advised not to breastfeed because of the risk of HIV transmission, incorporation of recombinant human milk proteins into infant foods is likely to be beneficial. We are expressing human milk proteins known to have anti-infective activity in rice. Since rice is a normal constituent of the diet of infants and children, limited purification of the proteins is required. Lactoferrin has antimicrobial and iron-binding activities. Lysozyme is an enzyme that is bactericidal and also acts synergistically with lactoferrin. These recombinant proteins have biological activities identical to their native counterparts. They are equally resistant to heat processing, which is necessary for food applications, and to acid and proteolytic enzymes which are needed to maintain their biological activity in the gastrointestinal tract of infants. These recombinant human milk proteins may be incorporated into infant formulas, baby foods and complementary foods, and used with the goal to reduce infectious diseases.
16903350	The soilborne filamentous fungus Trichoderma virens is a biocontrol agent with a well-known ability to produce antibiotics, parasitize pathogenic fungi, and induce systemic resistance in plants. Even though a plant-mediated response has been confirmed as a component of bioprotection by Trichoderma spp., the molecular mechanisms involved remain largely unknown. Here, we report the identification, purification, and characterization of an elicitor secreted by T. virens, a small protein designated Sm1 (small protein 1). Sm1 lacks toxic activity against plants and microbes. Instead, native, purified Sm1 triggers production of reactive oxygen species in monocot and dicot seedlings, rice, and cotton, and induces the expression of defense-related genes both locally and systemically in cotton. Gene expression analysis revealed that SM1 is expressed throughout fungal development under different nutrient conditions and in the presence of a host plant. Using an axenic hydroponic system, we show that SM1 expression and secretion of the protein is significantly higher in the presence of the plant. Pretreatment of cotton cotyledons with Sm1 provided high levels of protection to the foliar pathogen Colletotrichum sp. These results indicate that Sm1 is involved in the induction of resistance by Trichoderma spp. through the activation of plant defense mechanisms.
16903676	Starch granule types from a variety of botanical sources were selected to represent differences in crystalline polymorph, amylose and phosphate content, and amylopectin chain length distribution. Equimolar labeling of starch molecules with the fluorophore 8-amino-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulfonic acid (APTS) was used to construct a detailed map of the distribution of amylose and amylopectin within the granule by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) analysis. Medium- and high-resolution scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used to provide detailed images of granule surface structures. By using a combined surface and internal imaging approach, interpretations of a number of previous structural observations is presented. In particular, internal images of high amylose maize and potato suggest that multiple initiations of new granules are responsible for the compound or elongated structures observed in these starches. CLSM optical sections of rice granules revealed an apparent altered distribution of amylose in relation to the proposed growth ring structure, hinting at a novel mechanism of starch molecule deposition. Well-described granule features, such as equatorial grooves, channels, cracks, and growth rings were documented and related to both the internal and external observations. A new method for probing the phosphate distribution in native granules was developed using a phosphate-binding fluorescent dye and CLSM.
16904009	Hypertension leads to many degenerative diseases, the most common being cardiovascular in origin. This study has been designed to estimate the prevalence of self-reported hypertension in a random nationwide sample of adult Greek population, while focus was set to the assessment of participants' nutritional habits in relation to their hypertension status. A random-digit dialed telephone survey. Based on a multistage, stratified sampling, 5003 adults (18 - 74 yr) participated (men: 48.8%, women: 51.2%). All participants were interviewed via telephone by trained personnel who used a standard questionnaire. The questionnaire included demographic and socioeconomic characteristics, medical history, lifestyle habits and nutritional assessment. The prevalence of self-reported hypertension was 13.3% in men and 17.7% in women (P < 0.001). Furthermore, women reported higher values of systolic blood pressure (180 +/- 27 mmHg) than men (169 +/- 24 mmHg). Positive relationships were found between hypertension status and the prevalence of the rest investigated health conditions (i.e. hypercholesterolaemia, diabetes mellitus, renal failure and obesity). Nutritional assessment showed that consumption of fish, fruits and juices, cereals, and low fat milk and yogurt was significantly higher among hypertensive subjects while the opposite was observed for food items as red meat, pork, egg, pasta and rice, full fat dairy products and desserts. Hypertension seems to be a serious public health problem in Greece. It is encouraging that hypertensives may have started adopting some more healthy nutritional behaviour compared to normotensive ones. However, they can gain significant benefits regarding to blood pressure control, if they increase the level of compliance with dietary recommendations.
16904889	Disposal of biomass wastes, produced in different agricultural activities, is frequently an environmental problem. A solution for such situation is the recycling of these residues for the production of activated carbon, an adsorbent which has several applications, for instance in the elimination of contaminants. For some uses, high mechanical strength and good adsorption characteristics are required. To achieve this, carbonaceous materials are conformed as pellets or briquettes, in a process that involves mixing and pressing of char with adhesive materials prior to activation. In this work, the influence of the operation conditions on the mechanical and surface properties of briquettes was studied. Eucalyptus wood and rice husk from Uruguay were used as lignocellulosic raw materials, and concentrated grape must from Cuyo Region-Argentina, as a binder. Different wood:rice and solid:binder ratios were used to prepare briquettes in order to study their influence on mechanical and surface properties of the final products.
16905658	Expression of alpha-amylase genes during cereal grain germination and seedling growth is regulated negatively by sugar in embryos and positively by gibberellin (GA) in endosperm through the sugar response complex (SRC) and the GA response complex (GARC), respectively. We analyzed two alpha-amylase promoters, alphaAmy3 containing only SRC and alphaAmy8 containing overlapped SRC and GARC. alphaAmy3 was sugar-sensitive but GA-nonresponsive in both rice (Oryza sativa) embryos and endosperms, whereas alphaAmy8 was sugar-sensitive in embryos and GA-responsive in endosperms. Mutation of the GA response element (GARE) in the alphaAmy8 promoter impaired its GA response but enhanced sugar sensitivity, and insertion of GARE in the alphaAmy3 promoter rendered it GA-responsive but sugar-insensitive in endosperms. Expression of the GARE-interacting transcription factor MYBGA was induced by GA in endosperms, correlating with the endosperm-specific alphaAmy8 GA response. alphaAmy8 became sugar-sensitive in MYBGA knockout mutant endosperms, suggesting that the MYBGA-GARE interaction overrides the sugar sensitivity of alphaAmy8. In embryos overexpressing MYBGA, alphaAmy8 became sugar-insensitive, indicating that MYBGA affects sugar repression. alpha-Amylase promoters active in endosperms contain GARE, whereas those active in embryos may or may not contain GARE, confirming that the GARE and GA-induced MYBGA interaction prevents sugar feedback repression of endosperm alpha-amylase genes. We demonstrate that the MYBGA-GARE interaction affects sugar feedback control in balanced energy production during seedling growth and provide insight into the control mechanisms of tissue-specific regulation of alpha-amylase expression by sugar and GA signaling interference.
16905666	Zinc (Zn) deficiency is the most widespread micronutrient disorder in rice (Oryza sativa), but efforts to develop cultivars with improved tolerance have been hampered by insufficient understanding of genetic factors contributing to tolerance. The objective of this paper was to examine alternative evaluation methods and to identify the most informative traits that would provide realistic information for rice breeders and to map quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with tolerance. Screening experiments in low-Zn nutrient solution and in a Zn-deficient field did not produce similar tolerance rankings in a set of segregating lines, which suggested that rhizosphere effects were of greater importance for lowland rice than internal Zn efficiency. The most severe symptom in the field was high plant mortality. The occurrence of leaf bronzing, usually regarded as indicative of susceptibility, did not necessarily concur with high plant mortality, which implied that both were under independent genetic control. The QTL mapping experiment conducted in the field with a population derived from a cross of IR74 (intolerant) with Jalmagna (tolerant) largely confirmed this. Four QTLs associated with plant mortality were detected, and only one of those colocalized with one of the four QTLs detected for leaf bronzing. The two most influential QTLs for plant mortality were detected on chromosomes 2 and 12. They explained 16.6% and 24.2% of the variation, and alleles of the tolerant donor parent Jalmagna reduced mortality by 16.6% and 14.8%, respectively. QTLs for plant mortality acted in a purely additive manner, whereas digenic epistatic interactions were important for leaf bronzing.
16905871	Two different types of genes for rice GA-stimulated transcript (GAST) homologue genes, Oryza sativa GA-stimulated transcript-related gene 1 (OsGASR1) and gene 2 (OsGASR2), were found. Both OsGASR proteins contain a cysteine-rich domain highly conserved among GAST family proteins in their C-terminal regions. Gibberellin A3 (GA3) stimulated expression of both OsGASRs in the wild-type Nipponbare and GA3 synthesis-deficient mutant. Expression of both OsGASRs apparently increased when cell proliferation entered the logarithmic phase, and rapidly reduced when cell proliferation was temporarily halted. RT-PCR analysis indicated different expression patterns of these genes in developing panicles. OsGASR1 was limitedly but strongly expressed in florets while OsGASR2 was expressed in both florets and branches. In situ hybridization showed that they were strongly expressed in the root apical meristem (RAM) and shoot apical meristem (SAM), but little signals were detected in mature leaves. Transient expression of OsGASR-GFP fusion proteins in onion epidermal cells revealed that both OsGASR proteins localized to the apoplasm or cell wall. These results suggest that OsGASR1 and OsGASR2 were involved in cell division and might play diverse roles in differentation of panicles.
16905876	The DNA content of individual mitochondria in rice root cells was analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. Differences in DNA content were detected between individual mitochondria. Some mitochondria contained no detectable nucleoid (DNA-protein complexes). The percent of mitochondria with DAPI(4',6-Diamidino-2-phenylindole) -stained nucleoids varied over the length of the root (root base, 33%; middle portion of root, 41%; root tip, 91%). The mean amounts of DNA per mitochondrial nucleoid were equivalent to 46.4 kbp in the root base, 52.0 kbp in the middle portion of root and 124.2 kbp in the root tip. The amount of DNA in individual mitochondria and the ratio of mitochondria with visible nucleoids were higher in the root tip than in other parts of the root. The estimated amount of DNA in almost all of the observed mitochondria was smaller than the amount of DNA equivalent to the rice mitochondrial genome size (490 kbp), even in root tip.
16906220	Helicobacter pylori has now been widely recognized as a causative agent of gastroduodenal diseases. The development of safer anti- H. pylori compounds is desirable due to the antibiotic-resistant strains emerged to date. We successfully developed the compounds of Rice-fluid derived from unpolished, polished, and usually cooked Japanese rice, and investigated their in vitro antibacterial activities by means of the Time-Kill-Curve methods against various species of bacteria including H. pylori strains. All of the compounds revealed keen bactericidal activities against H. pylori, followed by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Campylobacter jejuni strains, but failed to affect the viability of other bacterial species investigated including staphylococci, enterococci, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and other gram-negative rods belonging to the family Enterobacteraceae. The bactericidal activities were demonstrated to be time- and concentration-dependent. The compounds of Rice-fluid are considered to be potentially new and safe therapeutic regimens against H. pylori infections. The mechanism of their bactericidal activities against H. pylori strains remains to be elucidated.
16906440	To feed an estimated world population of 8.9 billion by 2050, strategies for increasing grain production must be developed. Several agronomically important traits for increasing yield, such as plant height, grain number, and leaf erectness, have recently been characterized in rice (Oryza sativa L.). These traits are regulated primarily by three phytohormones: gibberellins, cytokinins, and brassinosteroids. The control of biosynthesis and degradation of these key phytohormones is discussed in terms of its importance for normal plant growth. Genes involved in the biosynthesis and regulation of these phytohormones can be used to develop effective strategies to increase grain yield. Genetic manipulation of phytohormone-related gene expression is thus a practical strategy to generate high-yielding transgenic plants through the modification of levels and profile of endogenous phytohormones.
16906988	We use Rice's theory of shot noise random processes to provide a statistical analysis of the evolution of the amplitude and phase of the chaotic optical field from a high-gain, self-amplified, spontaneous-emission (SASE) free-electron laser. The theoretical framework developed is compared with recent frequency-resolved optical-gating measurements of the SASE output at the LEUTL facility at Argonne National Laboratory.
16908037	The cytotoxicity of methanolic extracts from rice cultures of 53 Fusarium avenaceum strains, which had been isolated from different host organisms in Northern Europe, Canada and Australia/New Zealand, was investigated in a rat hepatoma (H4IIE-W), porcine epithelial kidney (PK-15), foetal feline lung fibroblast, dog lymphoblast (D3447), and a human hepatocarcinoma (Hep G2) cell line using the Alamar Bluetrade mark assay. All extracts were screened for known fungal metabolites using high-performance liquid chromatography with photodiode array and mass spectrometric detection, and both known and unknown metabolites were semi-quantified. Known metabolites that were determined in the cultures include acuminatopyrone, 2-amino-14,16-dimethyloctadecan-3-ol (2-AOD-3-ol), antibiotic Y, aurofusarin, chlamydosporol, chlamydospordiol, enniatins, fusarin A and C, and moniliformin. Multiple regression analysis was used in order to relate fungal metabolites to the cytotoxicity of the extracts. Separate linear regression models were constructed for each cell line. Eleven different fungal metabolites were related to the cytotoxicity (P<0.05). Out of these, nine metabolites were siginificantly related to the cytotoxicity in only one of the five models, while two, namely enniatins and 2-AOD-3-ol, were significant contributors in three or four regression models, respectively. This paper describes how multiple regression analysis may be applied for the assignment of bioactivity/toxicity to the constituents of a multi-component mixture.
16908506	Metabolic manipulation of plants to improve their nutritional quality is an important goal of plant biotechnology. Expression in rice (Oryza sativa L.) of a transgene (OASA1D) encoding a feedback-insensitive alpha subunit of rice anthranilate synthase results in the accumulation of tryptophan (Trp) in calli and leaves. It is shown here that the amount of free Trp in the seeds of such plants is increased by about two orders of magnitude compared with that in the seeds of wild-type plants. The total Trp content in the seeds of the transgenic plants was also increased. Two homozygous lines, HW1 and HW5, of OASA1D transgenic rice were generated for characterization of agronomic traits and aromatic metabolite profiling of seeds. The marked overproduction of Trp was stable in these lines under field conditions, although spikelet fertility and yield, as well as seed germination ability, were reduced compared with the wild type. These differences in agronomic traits were small, however, in HW5. In spite of the high Trp content in the seeds of the HW lines, metabolic profiling revealed no substantial changes in the amounts of other phenolic compounds. The amount of indole acetic acid was increased about 2-fold in the seeds of the transgenic lines. The establishment and characterization of these OASA1D transgenic lines have thus demonstrated the feasibility of increasing the Trp content in the seeds of rice (or of other crops) as a means of improving its nutritional value for human consumption or animal feed.
16910937	To inhibit the growth of the bloom-forming cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa using a rice straw extract. The cell numbers of the algal strain M. aeruginosa UTEX 2388 significantly decreased after treatment with different concentrations (0.01, 0.1, 1 and 10 mg l(-1)) of a rice straw extract for an 8-day cultivation period. Among seven tested allelochemicals from rice straw, salicylic acid at 0.1 mg l(1) exhibited the highest allelopathic activity (26%) on day 8. A synergistic effect on algal growth inhibition was found when adding two or three phenolic compounds from the rice straw. The growth of M. aeruginosa was inhibited by rice straw extract concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 10 mg l(1). This activity was due to the synergistic effects of various phenolic compounds in the rice straw. The identification of rice straw as an effective material for the growth inhibition of M. aeruginosa implies it may have the potential to be used as an environment-friendly biomaterial for controlling the algal bloom of M. aeruginosa in eutrophic water.
16912923	A metallothionein-like (rgMT) gene was isolated from a rice (Oryza sativa L.) root cDNA library that was prepared from plants grown under NaHCO3 stress. The rgMT gene expression was induced in rice leaves and roots under several abiotic stresses from salts (NaCl and NaHCO3), drought (PEG) and metals (CuCl2, ZnCl2, CdCl2). The results suggested that the rgMT gene was expressed in response to environmental stresses. The rgMT gene was expressed in Escherichia coli, and the final yield of the purified rgMT protein was 4.8 mg g(-1) dry cells. Tolerance of E. coli expressing GST-rgMT fusion protein to Cu2+, Zn2+ and Cd2+ was enhanced, and cells dry weight increased 0.04 mg, 0.17 mg and 0.07 mg in 1 ml culture treated with either CuCl2, ZnCl2 or CdCl2, respectively, compared with control after 6 h culture.
16912927	Helicobacter pylori ureB antigen gene was cloned to the 5'-end of gus (beta-glucuronidase) reporter gene between CaMV35S promoter and the octopine synthase (OCS) terminator in the plasmid, pCAMBIA13011. It was then introduced into rice genome by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. A total of 30 regenerated plants with hygromycin resistance were obtained in the selection media. The putative transgenic individuals were tested for the presence of ureB in the nuclear genome of rice plants by PCR analysis. Expression of ureB gene in rice plants was verified by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis using polyclonal human antiserum for transcription and translation levels respectively. These results provide a basis for further studies on the accumulation level of UreB recombinant protein in transgenic rice and potential utilization of transgenic rice for delivery of edible vaccines against Helicobacter pylori.
16914031	Retrotransposons are commonly occurring eukaryotic transposable elements (TEs). Among these, long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons are the most abundant TEs and can comprise 50-90% of the genome in higher plants. By comparing the orthologous chromosomal regions of closely related species, the effects of TEs on the evolution of plant genomes can be studied in detail. Here, we compared the composition and organization of TEs within five orthologous chromosomal regions among three grass species: maize, sorghum, and rice. We identified a total of 132 full or fragmented LTR retrotransposons in these regions. As a percentage of the total cumulative sequence in each species, LTR retrotransposons occupy 45.1% of the maize, 21.1% of the rice, and 3.7% of the sorghum regions. The most common elements in the maize retrotransposon-rich regions are the copia-like retrotransposons with 39% and the gypsy-like retrotransposons with 37%. Using the contiguous sequence of the orthologous regions, we detected 108 retrotransposons with intact target duplication sites and both LTR termini. Here, we show that 74% of these elements inserted into their host genome less than 1 million years ago and that many retroelements expanded in size by the insertion of other sequences. These inserts were predominantly other retroelements, however, several of them were also fragmented genes. Unforeseen was the finding of intact genes embedded within LTR retrotransposons. Although the abundance of retroelements between maize and rice is consistent with their different genome sizes of 2,364 and 389 Mb respectively, the content of retrotransposons in sorghum (790 Mb) is surprisingly low. In all three species, retrotransposition is a very recent activity relative to their speciation. While it was known that genes re-insert into non-orthologous positions of plant genomes, they appear to re-insert also within retrotransposons, potentially providing an important role for retrotransposons in the evolution of gene function.
16914791	A 61-year-old woman presented with mild pain and swelling on the volar aspect of the wrist, hand, and little finger. Radiography showed a soft-tissue mass shadow, and magnetic resonance imaging showed acute tenosynovitis of the flexor tendons and an inflammatory mass inside the carpal tunnel. Laboratory test results were normal, except for an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (40 mm/h). The patient had an ambiguous Mantoux test result but no history of mycobacterial exposure. Exhaustive investigations for rheumatic disease were negative. Surgical exploration of the lesion revealed rice bodies in the common flexor tendon synovial sheath, extending distally to the tip of the fifth finger. Removal of the rice bodies and thorough excision of the sheath was performed. The patient regained a full and painless range of motion in about 3 months. One-year follow-up revealed no underlying disorder.
16915354	The annotation of the recently released Populus trichocarpa genome, has allowed us to characterize extensively the multigenic families of the redoxin proteins. Proteins with two cysteines separated by two amino acids (CxxC motif) are often involved in redox reactions by promoting the formation, reduction or isomerization of disulfide bonds or by binding prosthetic groups or metals. We report here the presence of a new protein family in higher plants, constituted of 19 members in Populus trichocarpa, 15 in Arabidopsis thaliana and 17 in Oryza sativa. These proteins are almost specific to higher plants, with only two homologous genes found in mammals and arthropoda but none in other kingdoms. While these proteins were predicted as glutaredoxin-like proteins (GRL) in the automatic annotation procedure, they do not share the major conserved features of glutaredoxins but instead they display four conserved CxxC motives. A classification of these proteins, based on sequence similarity, gene structure and predicted cellular localization is proposed. The expression of these genes was also investigated by analyzing EST databases and Arabidopsis microarray results.
16915516	Gibberellins (GAs) are a class of phytohormones that regulate many aspects of plant growth and development processes including stem elongation, flowering, and seed germination. A novel GA-enhanced gene, designated as OsGAE1, was identified using microarray analysis of GA-regulated genes. OsGAE1 expressed in a dose- and time course-dependent manner with minimum expression at 1 microM GA(3) and maximum expression at 50 microM GA(3) starting from 30 min and peaked at 24 h after GA(3) treatment. OsGAE1 expression was up-regulated by GA(3) at transcript level while no significant effect was observed for other hormones. OsGAE1 was expressed in Escherichia coli with N-terminal His(6) tag and the recombinant protein migrated at 38 kDa, slightly larger than the predicted 29 kDa, during SDS-PAGE. Anti-OsGAE1 antibodies immunoreacted with a protein of 40 kDa in rice leaf sheath. OsGAE1 expressed mainly in growing leaf sheath and callus compared to leaf and root. In situ hybridization and OsGAE1 promoter analysis revealed that OsGAE1 expressed in shoot apex meristem and young primary leaves. Northern blot, Western blot, and GUS activities revealed that OsGAE1 is up-regulated by GA(3). Transgenic rice expressing OsGAE1 in antisense orientation exhibited severely affected vegetative and reproductive growth. The transgenic plants were 55-70% short compared to control. These results suggest that OsGAE1 is differentially expressed in rice leaf sheath in relation to GA(3) and it encodes a functional protein which is involved in GA-regulated growth and development of rice.
16915519	Photosynthetic organisms exhibit a green color due to the accumulation of chlorophyll pigments in chloroplasts. Mg-protoporphyrin IX chelatase (Mg-chelatase) comprises three subunits (ChlH, ChlD and ChlI) and catalyzes the insertion of Mg(2+) into protoporphyrin IX, the last common intermediate precursor in both chlorophyll and heme biosyntheses, to produce Mg-protoporphyrin IX (MgProto). Chlorophyll deficiency in higher plants results in chlorina (yellowish-green) phenotype. To date, 10 chlorina (chl) mutants have been isolated in rice, but the corresponding genes have not yet been identified. Rice Chl1 and Chl9 genes were mapped to chromosome 3 and isolated by map-based cloning. A missense mutation occurred in a highly conserved amino acid of ChlD in the chl1 mutant and ChlI in the chl9 mutant. Ultrastructural analyses have revealed that the grana are poorly stacked, resulting in the underdevelopment of chloroplasts. In the seedlings fed with aminolevulinate-dipyridyl in darkness, MgProto levels in the chl1 and chl9 mutants decreased up to 25% and 31% of that in wild-type, respectively, indicating that the Mg-chelatase activity is significantly reduced, causing the eventual decrease in chlorophyll synthesis. Furthermore, Northern blot analysis indicated that the nuclear genes encoding the three subunits of Mg-chelatase and LhcpII in chl1 mutant are expressed about 2-fold higher than those in WT, but are not altered in the chl9 mutant. This result indicates that the ChlD subunit participates in negative feedback regulation of plastid-to-nucleus in the expression of nuclear genes encoding chloroplast proteins, but not the ChlI subunit.
16915523	Exploitation of plant disease resistance (R) gene in breeding programs has been proven to be the most efficient strategy for coping with the threat of pathogens. An understanding of R-gene variation is the basis for this strategy. Here we report a genome-wide investigation on the variation of NBS-LRR-encoding genes, the common type of R genes, between two sequenced rice genomes, Oryza sativa L. var. Nipponbare and 93-11. We show that the allelic nucleotide diversity in 65.0% of 397 least-divergent pairs is not high (0.344% on average), while the remaining 35% display a greater diversity (5.4% on average). The majority of conserved R genes is single-copy and/or located as a singleton. The clustered, particularly the complex-clustered, R-genes contribute greatly to the rich genetic variation. Surprisingly only 11.2% of R-genes have remarkably high ratios of non-synonymous to synonymous rates, which is much less than the 17.4% observed between Arabidopsis genomes. Noticeable "artificially selective sweeping" could be detected in a large proportion of the conserved R-genes, a scenario described in the "arms race" co-evolutionary model. Based on our study, a variation pattern of R-genes is proposed and confirmed by the analysis of R-genes from other rice lines, indicating that the observed variation pattern may be common in all rice lines.
16915628	The National Energy Modeling System (NEMS) is used by the Energy Information Administration (EIA) to forecast US energy production, consumption, and price trends for a 25-yr-time horizon. Biomass is one of the technologies within NEMS, which plays a key role in several scenarios. An endogenously determined biomass supply schedule is used to derive the price-quantity relationship of biomass. There are four components to the NEMS biomass supply schedule including: agricultural residues, energy crops, forestry residues, and urban wood waste/mill residues. The EIA's Annual Energy Outlook 2005 includes updated estimates of the agricultural residue portion of the biomass supply schedule. The changes from previous agricultural residue supply estimates include: revised assumptions concerning corn stover and wheat straw residue availabilities, inclusion of non-corn and non-wheat agricultural residues (such as barley, rice straw, and sugarcane bagasse), and the implementation of assumptions concerning increases in no-till farming. This article will discuss the impact of these changes on the supply schedule.
16915658	In grass cell walls, ferulic acid esters linked to arabinosyl residues in arabinoxylans play a key role in crosslinking hemicellulose. Although such crosslinks have a number of important roles in the cell wall, they also hinder the rate and extent of cell wall degradation by ruminant microbes and by fungal glycohydrolyase enzymes. Ferulic acid esterase (FAE) can release both monomeric and dimeric ferulic acids from arabinoxylans making the cell wall more susceptible to further enzymatic attack. Transgenic plants of Lolium multiflorum expressing a ferulic acid esterase gene from Aspergillus niger, targeted to the vacuole under a constitutive rice actin promoter, have been produced following microprojectile bombardment of embryogenic cell cultures. The level of FAE activity was found to vary with leaf age and was highest in young leaves. FAE expression resulted in the release of monomeric and dimeric ferulic acids from cell walls on cell death and this was enhanced severalfold by the addition of exogenous beta-1,4-endoxylanase. We also show that a number of plants expressing FAE had reduced levels of cell wall esterified monomeric and dimeric ferulates and increased in vitro dry-matter digestibility compared with nontransformed plants.
16915707	Countercurrent fermentation of rice straw and chicken manure to carboxylic acids was performed using a mixed culture of marine mesophilic microorganisms. To increase the digestibility of the biomass, rice straw, and chicken manure were pretreated with 0.1 g Ca(OH)2/g biomass. Fermentation was performed for 80% rice straw and 20% chicken manure at various volatile solid loading rates (VSLR) and liquid residence times (LRT). The highest acid productivity of 1.69 g/(L x d) occurred at a total acid concentration of 32.4 g/L. The highest conversion (0.69 g VS digested/g VS fed) and yield (0.29 g total acids/g VS fed) were at a total acid concentration of 25 g/L. A Continuum Particle Distribution Model of the process predicted the experimental total acid concentration and conversion results with an average error of 6.41% and 6.15%, respectively. Results show how total acid concentrations, conversions, and yields vary with VSLR and LRT in the MixAlco process.
16917806	During the advanced stage of the Maillard reaction (MR) in food processing and cooking, Amadori rearrangement products undergo dehydration and fission and fluorescent substances are formed. Free and total (free + linked to the protein backbone) fluorescence (FIC) due to Maillard compounds in 60 commercial breakfast cereals was evaluated. Pronase was used for efficient release of linked fluorescent Maillard compounds from the protein backbone. Results were correlated with some heat-induced markers of the extent of the MR or sugar caramelisation during cereal processing, such as hydroxymethylfurfural, furfural, glucosilisomaltol and furosine. The effect of sample composition (dietary-fibre added, protein, etc.) on levels of FIC, expressed as fluorescence intensity (FI) per milligram of sample, is discussed. FIC is significantly correlated to the protein content of the sample and fluorescent Maillard compounds are mainly linked to the protein backbone. The ratio of total-FIC to free-FIC was 10.4-fold for corn-based, wheat-based and multicereal-based breakfast cereals but significantly higher in rice-based samples. Addition of dietary fibre or honey increased the FIC values. Data support the usefulness of FIC measurement as an unspecific heat-induced marker in breakfast cereals.
16918541
16919402	We identified four histidine kinase (HK) genes of a cytokinin receptor family, two histidine-containing phosphotransmitter (HPt) genes, thirteen A-type response regulator (RR) genes and six B-type RR genes in the rice genome. The HK genes (OHK2, OHK3, OHK4 and OHK5 for Oryza sativa HK), the HPt genes (OHP1 and OHP2 for O. sativa HPt) and the B-type RR genes (ORR1, ORR2, ORR3, ORR4 and ORR6 for O. sativa RR) except one (ORR5) showed expression in various organs. ORR5 was expressed in callus and flower. Three A-type RR genes (OsRR4, OsRR9 and OsRR10 for O. sativa RR) showed cytokinin-induced expression, and three (OsRR8, OsRR12 and OsRR13) showed expression in flower. We also identified two other genes named OHK1 and CHARK (CHASE domain Receptor-like serine/threonine Kinase). OHK1 encodes an HK similar to Arabidopsis CKI1, which is involved in female gametophyte development. CHARK encodes a protein with an extracellular cytokinin-perceiving CHASE domain and a cytoplasmic serine/threonine kinase domain which are connected with a single transmembrane domain. The presence of all four gene families and CHARK in the rice genome suggests that a cytokinin signal is transduced by the phosphotransfer mechanism as is the case in Arabidopsis, and that rice may have an additional novel signalling pathway involving serine/threonine phosphorylation.
16919842	WRKY proteins are a large family of transcription factors that mainly participate in plant biotic stress responses. So far, one hundred and five OsWRKY genes have been predicted in the rice genome. To identify OsWRKY genes that might function in inducible defense responses, a phylogenetic tree including 184 WRKY proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, and other species was constructed. Based on the phylogenetic analysis, ten candidate OsWRKY genes that may be involved in defense responses were isolated from salicylic acid (SA)-treated rice seedlings. One of them, OsWRKY71, was up-regulated by several defense signaling molecules, such as SA, methyl jasmonate (MeJA), 1-aminocyclo-propane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), as well as wounding and pathogen infection, suggesting that OsWRKY71 might function in rice biotic stress response. Transient expression of OsWRKY71:GFP fusion protein in onion epidermis cells revealed that OsWRKY71 was localized in the nucleus. Overexpression of OsWRKY71 gene in rice resulted in enhanced resistance to virulent bacterial pathogens Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) 13751. Furthermore, two marker genes in defense signaling pathway, OsNPR1 and OsPR1b, were constitutively expressed in OsWRKY71-overexpressing transgenic plants. These results suggest that OsWRKY71 might function as a transcriptional regulator upstream of OsNPR1 and OsPR1b in rice defense signaling pathways.
16919930	Actinomycetes are well known as lignocellulose decomposers. Forty-two cellulolytic actinomycete isolates have been recovered from soil. Those were identified to the genus level as: Streptomyces (26 isolates), Nocardiopsis (5 isolates), Micromonospora (4 isolates), Nocardioides (4 isolates) in addition to three isolates tentatively identified as Nocardia, Kibdelosporangium and Saccharomonospora. These actinomycetes were examined for their cellulolytic activity using filter paper strips and rice straw pieces. Four isolates of the four genera Kibdelosporangium, Micromonospora, Streptomyces and Nocardioides were able to efficiently degrade rice straw pieces in minimal medium causing significant weight loss between 50 and 61%. Application of this knowledge may improve the management of waste rice straw.
16919940	The effect of inoculum source on anaerobic thermophilic digestion of separately collected organic fraction of municipal solid wastes (SC_OFMSW) has been studied. Performance of laboratory scale reactors (V: 1.1 L) were evaluated using six different inoculums sources: (1) corn silage (CS); (2) restaurant waste digested mixed with rice hulls (RH_OFMSW); (3) cattle excrement (CATTLE); (4) swine excrement (SWINE); (5) digested sludge (SLUDGE); and (6) SWINE mixed with SLUDGE (1:1) (SWINE/SLUDGE). The SC_OFMSW was separately and collected from university restaurant. The selected conditions were: 25% of inoculum, 30% of total solid and 55 degrees C of temperature, optimum in the thermophilic range. The six inoculum sources showed an initial start-up phase in the range between 2 and 4 days and the initial methane generation began over 10 days operational process. Results indicated that SLUDGE is the best inoculum source for anaerobic thermophilic digestion of the treatment of organic fraction of municipal solid waste at dry conditions (30%TS). Over 60 days operating period, it was confirmed that SLUDGE reactor can achieve 44.0%COD removal efficiency and 43.0%VS removal. In stabilization phase, SLUDGE reactor showed higher volumetric biogas generated of 78.9 mL/day (or 35.6 mLCH(4)/day) reaching a methane yield of 0.53 LCH(4)/gVS. Also, SWINE/SLUDGE and SWINE were good inoculums at these experimental conditions.
16921518	The complete cDNA sequences of heat shock protein 90 (hsp90) and of heat shock cognate protein 70 (hsc70) were cloned by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction from the rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis Walker. They potentially encode a 717-amino-acids (hsp90) and a 652-amino-acids (hsc70) protein, with calculated molecular weight of 82.5 and 71.3 kDa, respectively. The deduced amino acid sequence of hsp90 showed the highest homology of 97.2% to Spodoptera frugiperda hsp90. The closest match of C. suppressalis hsc70 was with Manduca sexta hsc70 at 98.0% identity. Expression of hsp90 in diapausing larvae was higher than that in non-diapausing larvae. No such up-regulation in diapausing larvae was observed for hsc70. In non-diapausing larvae, but not in diapausing ones, hsp90 expression was up-regulated by cold acclimation. Hsc70 expression slightly decreased during cold acclimation irrespective of the state of diapause. Involvement of hsp90 and hsc70 in larval diapause and cold tolerance acquisition in C. suppressalis is discussed.
16921965	Time-spatial variability of ammonium and nitrate in soil profiles of farmland soil (three main paddy soils: White soil, Huangni soil and Wushan soil) during wheat and rice growth was studied. The results were as follows: the ammonium content was high in February and September and low in April and November in 2004. The spatial variability of ammonium content in soil profiles was gradually decreased from surface soil layer to bottom soil layer. It was stable below 40 cm. The nitrate content was lower than the ammonium content. The nitrate content of the wheat growth season (dry cultivation) was higher than that of the rice growth season (water cultivation) in a year. The spatial variability of the nitrate content in soil profiles was quickly decreased from surface soil layer to bottom soil layer during dry cultivation. But during the rice growth season, the nitrate content of the surface soil layer in soil profiles was lower than that of bottom soil layer. It was leaching phenomenon of nitrate. The nitrate content was in a sharp positive relation with the ammonium and changed with exponential function during dry cultivation. But there was not this relationship during water cultivation. The ammonium and nitrate were significant relation with soil organic matter in straight line. But the ammonium and nitrate content decreased with the soil clay content and pH value increased and changed with logarithmic function.
16921968	Soil samples of current paddy soils, ancient paddy soil/ancient dry land soil, and bottom soils were collected from two sites in Chuodunshan Site of Majiabang Culture (about 6,000a). 15 polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were analyzed with HPLC, and their possible sources were identified. The sum of 15 PAHs was 202.9microg x kg(-1) and 207.7microg x kg(-1) in the surface soils from Site A and Site B respectively, which were mainly deposited from atmosphere. In ancient paddy soil from Site A, the total PAHs concentration sharply decreased to 56.0microg x kg(-1), but was still higher than those in ancient dry land soil and bottom soils with the sum of 32.0 approximately 36.9microg x kg(-1). In ancient paddy soil, the concentrations of 2-ring and 3-ring PAHs took a larger portion of 63 percents to the total PAHs, and naphthalene and phenanthrene were the most abundant compounds, while PAHs of more than 4 rings took a small part. The ratios of phenanthrene anthracene and benzo(a) anthracene chrysene and 13C-NMR spectrum of soil organic matter showed that PAHs in ancient paddy soil mainly originated from rice straw burning, biogenesis under reducing conditions may be another source.
16922842	1. Differences in body size between mainland and island populations have been reported for reptiles, birds and mammals. Despite widespread recognition of insular shifts in body size in these taxa, there have been no reports of such body size shifts in amphibians. 2. We provide the first evidence of an insular shift in body size for an amphibian species, the rice frog Rana limnocharis. We found significant increases in body size of rice frogs on most sampled islands in the Zhoushan archipelago when compared with neighbouring mainland China. 3. Large body size in rice frogs on islands was significantly related to increased population density, in both breeding and non-breeding seasons. Increases in rice frog density were significantly related to higher resource availability on islands. Increased resource availability on islands has led to higher carrying capacities, which has subsequently facilitated higher densities and individual growth rates, resulting in larger body size in rice frogs. We also suggest that large body size has evolved on islands, as larger individuals are competitively superior under conditions of harsh intraspecific competition at high densities. 4. Increases in body size in rice frogs were not related to several factors that have been implicated previously in insular shifts in body size in other taxa. We found no significant relationships between body size of rice frogs and prey size, number of larger or smaller frog species, island area or distance of islands from the mainland. 5. Our findings contribute to the formation of a broad, repeatable ecological generality for insular shifts in body size across a range of terrestrial vertebrate taxa, and provide support for recent theoretical work concerning the importance of resource availability for insular shifts in body size.
16923594	The degradative characteristics of butachlor (N-Butoxymethyl-2-chloro-2',6'-diethyla- cetanilide) were studied under controlled laboratory conditions in clay loam alluvial (AL) soil (Typic udifluvent) and coastal saline (CS) soil (Typic endoaquept) from rice cultivated fields. The application rates included field rate (FR), 2-times FR (2FR) and 10-times FR (10FR). The incubation study was carried out at 30 degrees C with and without decomposed cow manure (DCM) at 60% of maximum water holding capacity (WHC) and waterlogged soil condition. The half-life values depended on the soil types and initial concentrations of butachlor. Butachlor degraded faster in AL soil and in soil amended with DCM under waterlogged condition. Microbial degradation is the major avenue of butachlor degradation from soils.
16924117	Drought and salinity are major abiotic stresses to crop production. Here, we show that overexpression of stress responsive gene SNAC1 (STRESS-RESPONSIVE NAC 1) significantly enhances drought resistance in transgenic rice (22-34% higher seed setting than control) in the field under severe drought stress conditions at the reproductive stage while showing no phenotypic changes or yield penalty. The transgenic rice also shows significantly improved drought resistance and salt tolerance at the vegetative stage. Compared with WT, the transgenic rice are more sensitive to abscisic acid and lose water more slowly by closing more stomatal pores, yet display no significant difference in the rate of photosynthesis. SNAC1 is induced predominantly in guard cells by drought and encodes a NAM, ATAF, and CUC (NAC) transcription factor with transactivation activity. DNA chip analysis revealed that a large number of stress-related genes were up-regulated in the SNAC1-overexpressing rice plants. Our data suggest that SNAC1 holds promising utility in improving drought and salinity tolerance in rice.
16924483	Anabaena azotica FACHB-118 and Anabaena sp. CH1, heterocystous cyanobacteria isolated from Chinese and Taiwanese rice fields, expressed vanadium-containing nitrogenase when under molybdenum deficiency. This is the second direct observation of an alternative nitrogenase in cyanobacteria. The vanadium nitrogenase-specific genes vnfDG are fused and clustered in a phylogenetic tree next to the corresponding genes of Methanosarcina. The expression of vnfH in cells cultured in Mo-free medium and of nifH in Mo-grown cells was shown for the first time by sequencing cDNA derived from cultures of A. azotica and Anabaena sp. CH1. The vnfH sequences clustered with that of Anabaena variabilis. The vnf genes were strongly transcribed only in cultures grown either in Mo-free medium, or in W-containing medium, but also weakly in Mo-containing medium. NifH was transcribed in all media. On-line measurements of acetylene reduction by Mo-free A. azotica cultures demonstrated that the V-nitrogenase was active. Ethane was formed continuously at a rate of 2.1% of that of ethylene. Acetylene reduction of cultures grown either with or without Mo had a high temperature optimum of 42.5 degrees C. The uptake hydrogenase gene hupL was expressed in Mo-free medium concomitantly with vnfDG in A. azotica, Anabaena sp. CH1, and A. variabilis.
16925281	Nutritional deficiencies are a recognized complication of bariatric surgery. Thiamine deficiency has been reported as a possible consequence of both restrictive and malabsorptive bariatric procedures. Most of the reported cases occurred after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery; fewer were described after biliopancreatic diversion, vertical banded gastroplasty, or duodenal switch. Adults who have a high carbohydrate intake derived mainly from refined sugars and milled rice are at greater risk of developing thiamine deficiency, because thiamine is absent from fats, oils, and refined sugars. Currently, no reports have evaluated the preoperative thiamine status of bariatric patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the degree of thiamine deficiency in obese patients before bariatric surgery at our institution. The medical records of consecutive patients who underwent laparoscopic RYGB or laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding at our institution between March 2003 and February 2004 were retrospectively reviewed. Patients were selected for this study on the basis of predetermined criteria. Preoperative thiamine levels were retrospectively recorded. Excluded from this study were patients who had been taking multivitamins or other nutritional supplements before surgical intervention, had a history of frequent alcohol consumption, any malabsorptive diseases, or previous restrictive-malabsorptive surgical interventions, such as RYGB, biliopancreatic diversion, or adjustable gastric banding, according to the initial evaluation and questionnaire. Of 437 consecutive patients who underwent laparoscopic RYGB or laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding, 303 were included in the study. Forty-seven patients (15.5%) presented with low preoperative thiamine levels. The mean age and body mass index of these patients was 46 years and 60 kg/m(2), respectively. Male patients presented with greater mean preoperative thiamine levels (3.2 microg /dL) than female patients (2.4 microg/dL). Obese patients undergoing bariatric surgery may have significant thiamine deficiency before surgery.
16925866	Previous research indicates that vegetables yield relatively high satiety scores, and that fibre content and structure may both contribute to these effects. This study evaluated the effects of the fibre content and physical structure (gross anatomy and cell structure) of carrots on postprandial satiety and subsequent food intakes when consumed as part of a mixed meal. Using a randomised, repeated-measures, within-subject cross-over design, young women consumed a standardised breakfast and test lunches on three occasions, 4 weeks apart. The test lunches (3329 kJ) comprised boiled rice (200 g) with sweet and sour sauce (200 g) that included chicken (200 g) and carrots (200 g) in three conditions: whole carrots (fibre and structure; n 34), blended carrots (fibre but no structure; n 34) or carrot nutrients (no fibre or structure; n 32). The carrot nutrients had the same energy, major nutrients and portion weight as the other two conditions. Post-lunch satiety was assessed by visual analogue scales. Intakes were covertly weighed at a meal eaten ad libitum (3 h later), and for the remainder of the day using food diaries. Compared with the meal with carrot nutrients, meals with whole carrots and blended carrots resulted in significantly (P<0.05) higher satiety. There were significant (P<0.05) differences between conditions in intakes at the meal eaten ad libitum and for the remainder of the day, and intakes consistently decreased in the order: carrot nutrients, blended carrots, whole carrots, indicating that both fibre content and structure played a role in these effects.
16926158	Graminaceous plants have evolved a unique mechanism to acquire iron through the secretion of a family of small molecules, called mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs). All MAs are synthesized from l-Met, sharing the same pathway from l-Met to 2'-deoxymugineic acid (DMA). DMA is synthesized through the reduction of a 3''-keto intermediate by deoxymugineic acid synthase (DMAS). We have isolated DMAS genes from rice (OsDMAS1), barley (HvDMAS1), wheat (TaD-MAS1), and maize (ZmDMAS1). Their nucleotide sequences indicate that OsDMAS1 encodes a predicted polypeptide of 318 amino acids, whereas the other three orthologs all encode predicted polypeptides of 314 amino acids and are highly homologous (82-97.5%) to each other. The DMAS proteins belong to the aldo-keto reductase superfamily 4 (AKR4) but do not fall within the existing subfamilies of AKR4 and appear to constitute a new subfamily within the AKR4 group. All of the proteins showed DMA synthesis activity in vitro. Their enzymatic activities were highest at pH 8-9, consistent with the hypothesis that DMA is synthesized in subcellular vesicles. Northern blot analysis revealed that the expression of each of the above DMAS genes is up-regulated under iron-deficient conditions in root tissue, and that of the genes OsDMAS1 and TaDMAS1 is up-regulated in shoot tissue. OsDMAS1 promoter-GUS analysis in iron-sufficient roots showed that its expression is restricted to cells participating in long distance transport and that it is highly up-regulated in the entire root under iron-deficient conditions. In shoot tissue, OsDMAS1 promoter drove expression in vascular bundles specifically under iron-deficient conditions.
16926238	The structural development of glasshouse-grown rice Oryza sativa L. var. Nerica 1 was studied in relation to its stability against lodging. The morphology and mechanical properties of both the stem and roots were examined from tillering, 4 weeks after transplantation up to maturity, together with plant weight distribution and anchorage strength. The "factors of safety" against root and stem failure were subsequently calculated throughout development. Rice plants showed similar morphology to wheat, although they possessed around twice as many tillers per plant and 10 times as many coronal roots. The mechanics of anchorage were also similar. The strength and rigidity of individual tillers increased throughout development as the plants grew taller and heavier and were around 15 times greater than in wheat. By contrast, individual root bending strength, the number of roots, and the anchorage strength levelled off earlier, and anchorage strength was only around twice that in wheat. Consequently, while the self-weight safety factor against stem failure was much higher than in wheat, increasing until late on in development from around 30 to 150, the self-weight safety factor against root anchorage failure was similar to wheat, decreasing from around 15 to 5. Consequently, plants subjected to anchorage tests always failed in their root system rather than their shoot system. The results suggest that, in the field, rice plants would be more likely to undergo root lodging than stem lodging, and that breeding efforts to reduce the incidence of lodging should act to strengthen the rather weak coronal roots.
16926501	The digestibility and gastrointestinal absorption of 14-16-kDa rice allergens (RAs) were investigated. RAs and bovine serum albumin (BSA) were first evaluated for their digestibility. BSA was digested completely by in vitro incubation with some proteases, but RAs remained almost intact. Administered orally (20 mg per mouse), intact RAs were clearly detected in the small intestine even 60 min after the administration, the amount of total RAs in the small intestine being estimated to be 0.59 mg. RAs were then biotinylated and infused into the duodenal lumen of anesthetized mice, and portal blood was collected. The RA concentrations in the portal plasma were respectively estimated to be 0.4-0.9 and 0.3-2.5 microg/ml for 0.4 and 4 mg doses. These results suggest that RAs are highly resistant to digestive enzymes and that about 1/100 of orally administered RAs remain intact in the small intestine, while at least 1/1,000-1/10,000 is absorbed and delivered into circulated blood.
16927200	Elucidating the regulatory mechanisms of plant organ formation is an important component of plant developmental biology and will be useful for crop improvement applications. Plant organ formation, or organogenesis, occurs when a group of primordial cells differentiates into an organ, through a well-orchestrated series of events, with a given shape, structure and function. Research over the past two decades has elucidated the molecular mechanisms of organ identity and dorsalventral axis determinations. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying the successive processes. To develop an effective approach for studying organ formation at the molecular level, we generated organ-specific gene expression profiles (GEPs) reflecting early development in rice stamen. In this study, we demonstrated that the GEPs are highly correlated with early stamen development, suggesting that this analysis is useful for dissecting stamen development regulation. Based on the molecular and morphological correlation, we found that over 26 genes, that were preferentially up-regulated during early stamen development, may participate in stamen development regulation. In addition, we found that differentially expressed genes during early stamen development are clustered into two clades, suggesting that stamen development may comprise of two distinct phases of pattern formation and cellular differentiation. Moreover, the organ-specific quantitative changes in gene expression levels may play a critical role for regulating plant organ formation.
16927205	Development of hybrid rice has greatly contributed to increased yields during the past three decades. Two bentazon-lethal mutants 8077S and Norin8m are being utilized in developing new hybrid rice systems. When the male sterile lines are developed in such a mutant background, the problem of F1 seed contamination by self-seeds from the sterile lines can be solved by spraying bentazon at seedling stage. We first determined the sensitivity of the mutant plants to bentazon. Both mutants showed symptoms to bentazon starting from 100 mg/l, which was about 60-fold, lower than the sensitivity threshold of their wild-type controls. In addition, both mutants were sensitive to sulfonylurea-type herbicides. The locus for the mutant phenotype is bel for 8077S and bsl for Norin8m. Tests showed that the two loci are allelic to each other. The two genes were cloned by map-based cloning. Interestingly, both mutant alleles had a single-base deletion, which was confirmed by PCR-RFLP. The two loci are renamed bel (a) (for bel) and bel (b) (for bsl). The wild-type Bel gene encodes a novel cytochrome P450 monooxgenase, named CYP81A6. Analysis of the mutant protein sequence also revealed the reason for bel (a) being slightly tolerant than bel (b). Introduction of the wild-type Bel gene rescued the bentazon- and sulfonylurea-sensitive phenotype of bel (a) mutant. On the other hand, expression of antisense Bel in W6154S induced a mutant phenotype. Based on these results we conclude that the novel cytochrome P450 monooxygenase CYP81A6 encoded by Bel confers resistance to two different classes of herbicides.
16929243	To determine the prevalence of anemia and iron status as assessed by biochemical markers and to explore the associations between markers of iron status and iron intake. STUDY AREA AND POPULATION: Five hundred healthy women of reproductive age from the Bhaktapur district of Nepal were included in the study. A cluster sampling procedure was applied for this cross-sectional study. Women without any ongoing infection aged 13-35 years were selected randomly from the population. We measured the plasma concentration of hemoglobin (Hb), ferritin and transferrin receptors. Dietary information was obtained by a food frequency questionnaire and two 24-h dietary recalls. The prevalence of anemia (Hb concentration <12 g/dl) was 12% (n=58). The prevalence of depleted iron stores (plasma ferritin <15 microg/l) was 20% (n=98) whereas the prevalence of iron deficiency anemia (anemia, depleted iron stores with elevated transferrin receptor i.e. >1.54 mg/l) was 6% (n=30). Seven percent (n=35) of women were having iron-deficient erythropoiesis (depleted iron stores and elevated transferrin receptor but normal Hb). Out of the 58 anemic women, 41 (71%) and 31 (53%) were also having elevated plasma transferrin receptor and depleted iron stores, respectively. Fifty-four percent of the women ate less than the recommended average intake of iron. The main foods contributing to dietary iron were rice, wheat flour and green and dry vegetables. The prevalence of anemia in our study was substantially lower than the national figure for non-pregnant women. Only about half of the women with anemia were also having depleted iron stores, suggesting that other causes of anemia may be prevalent in this population. Norwegian Universities Committee for Development, Research and Education (NUFU).
16929642	In Ca Mau, Vietnam, farmers converted from rice to shrimp farming, while ignoring the degradation of the aquatic environment. We assessed the seasonal variations in organic pollution of the surface water and salt intrusion in one district and assessed the difference in chemical characteristics of the surface water of shrimp ponds and canals. Several variables reflecting salinity and organic pollution were measured in the wet and dry season. The results show that in the dry season salinity increased to 37.36-42.73 g l(-1) and COD and suspended solids increased to a maximum of 268.7 mg l(-1) and 1312.0 mg l(-1), respectively. In the wet season salinity values of 8.16 to 10.60 g l(-1) were recorded, indicating that salinity could no longer be washed out completely in this season. It is concluded that salinity and suspended solids in the aquatic environment in the Cai Nuoc district are increased by shrimp monoculture, whereas organic pollution is contributed by human population pressure.
16929837	A new analytical method was developed to simultaneously determine multiple pesticide residues in rice including organophosphorus, organochlorine, carbamate and pyrethroid. First, the solvents for pesticide extraction were selected for optimization. Eight solvents were screened to find that the extraction efficiency with dichloromethane was the best. Second, clean-up was performed by solid phase extraction using a Florisil cartridge. Various mixtures of hexane and acetone were tested to show that the mixture of hexane-acetone (4:1, v/v) had the best performance. The clean-up helped the sample purification significantly. The prepared sample was analyzed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) in selected ion monitoring (SIM) mode. The pesticides were identified with retention time and selected ions and their relative abundances, and they were quantified based on extract of spiking standards in a blank sample. The limits of detection (LODs) were evaluated on the values of the lower concentration fortified sample under the signal-to-noise ratio of 3:1. The recoveries and relative standard deviations (RSDs) were checked by adding pesticide standard solution at two levels to untreated samples, and the triplicate analysis of the samples were carried out for each spiked level. The LODs were at microg/kg level. The average recoveries of most pesticides were from 75% to 120 %. The RSDs were less than 10.4% (n = 3). These results indicated that this method is simple, rapid, sensitive for the simultaneous determination requirements of multiple pesticide residues in rice.
16929843	A method has been developed for the determination of T-2 toxin in cereal grains by high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection after immunoaffinity column clean-up and precolumn derivatization. The derivatization reaction was used to develop a sensitive, reproducible and accurate method for the determination of T-2 toxin in wheat, corn, barley and rice. T-2 toxin was extracted with methanol-water (80: 20, v/v), purified by immunoaffinity columns containing antibodies specific for T-2 toxin, and quantified by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection (excitation wavelength, 381 nm; emission wavelength, 470 nm) after derivatization with 1-anthroylnitrile (1-AN) and 4-dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP). ZORBAX Eclipse XDB-C18 column and mobile phase of acetonitrile-water (80: 20, v/v) were used for the analysis. Recoveries from the different cereals spiked with T-2 toxin at levels ranging from 0.01 to 1.5 microg/g were from 79.7% to 94.5%, the relative standard deviations were lower than 7% and the limit of detection was 0.01 microg/g based on a signal-to-noise ratio of 3: 1.
16930318	The involvement of cytokinins (CTKs) in the repression of phosphate (Pi)-starvation signalling has been widely documented. However, the full physiological and molecular relevance of this role remains unclear. To gain further insights into the regulation system of CTK repression of Pi-starvation signalling, a global analysis of gene expression events in rice seedlings under Pi starvation, and the exogenous CTK treatment under Pi-sufficient (+P) and Pi-deficient (-P) conditions, was conducted using oligonucleotide array analysis. Physiological and biochemical adaptation was observed after 10 d Pi starvation in rice seedlings. A global reduction of the Pi-starvation signalling was detected after 3 d treatment of exogenous CTK. Expression profiling data indicate that, together with a significant increase of intracellular Pi content, many expression changes responsive to Pi starvation were reversed by exogenous CTK treatment while CTK-responsive genes behaved normally under -P condition. These results suggest that the interplay of CTK signal and Pi-starvation response can be partially explained by the rise of Pi concentration after exogenous CTK treatment. Microarray data also revealed that a small number of genes have different CTK response patterns under different Pi levels, suggesting a subtle interaction between CTK and Pi-starvation signalling pathway.
16930322	Sodium chloride reduces the growth of rice seedlings, which accumulate excessive concentrations of sodium and chloride ions in their leaves. In this paper, we describe how silicon decreases transpirational bypass flow and ion concentrations in the xylem sap in rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings growing under NaCl stress. Salt (50 mM NaCl) reduced the growth of shoots and roots: adding silicate (3 mM) to the saline culture solution improved the growth of the shoots, but not roots. The improvement of shoot growth in the presence of silicate was correlated with reduced sodium concentration in the shoot. The net transport rate of Na from the root to shoot (expressed per unit of root mass) was also decreased by added silicate. There was, however, no effect of silicate on the net transport of potassium. Furthermore, in salt-stressed plants, silicate did not decrease the transpiration, and even increased it in seedlings pre-treated with silicate for 7 d prior to salt treatment, indicating that the reduction of sodium uptake by silicate was not simply through a reduction in volume flow from root to shoot. Experiments using trisodium-8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulphonic acid (PTS), an apoplastic tracer, showed that silicate dramatically decreased transpirational bypass flow in rice (from about 4.2 to 0.8%), while the apparent sodium concentration in the xylem, which was estimated indirectly from the flux data, decreased from 6.2 to 2.8 mM. Direct measurements of the concentration of sodium in xylem sap sampled using Philaenus spumarius confirmed that the apparent reduction was not a consequence of sodium recycling. X-ray microanalysis showed that silicon was deposited in the outer part of the root and in the endodermis, being more obvious in the latter than in the former. The results suggest that silicon deposition in the exodermis and endodermis reduced sodium uptake in rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings under NaCl stress through a reduction in apoplastic transport across the root.
16931048	Glyoxalase II, one of the enzymes of the glyoxalase pathway, cDNA cloned from rice (OsglyII) consists of 1623 nucleotides with an open reading frame of 1010 bp encoding a polypeptide of 336 amino acids and an estimated isoelectric point of 8.08. The recombinant protein purified from Escherichia coli using Ni-NTA affinity chromatography showed molecular mass of approximately 37 kDa. Catalytic parameters of the protein were determined using S-D-lactoylglutathione as a thioester substrate. The K(m) (61 microM) and K(cat) (301 s(-1)) values were lower than those reported for Arabidopsis, human and yeast and showed pH optima at 7.2. The E. coli overexpressing OsglyII were able to grow on higher concentration of methylglyoxal. Transcript analysis in rice showed that OsglyII gene expression is stimulated within 15 min in response to various abiotic stresses as well as treatment with abscisic acid or salicylic acid. This multistress response of OsglyII gene documents its future utility in developing tolerance to various stresses in crop plants.
16931063	Environmental enrichment (EE) results in improved learning and spatial memory, as well as attenuates morphological changes resulting from cerebral ischemia in adult animals. This study examined the effects of daily EE on memory deficits in the water maze and cerebral damage, assessed in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, caused by neonatal hypoxia-ischemia. Male Wistar rats in the 7th postnatal day were submitted to the Levine-Rice model of neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI), comprising permanent occlusion of the right common carotid artery and a period of hypoxia (90 min, 8%O(2)-92%N(2)). Starting two weeks after the HI event, animals were stimulated by the enriched environment (1h/day for 9 weeks); subsequent to the stimulation, performance of animals in the water maze was assessed. HI resulted in spatial reference and working memory impairments that were completely reversed by EE. Following the behavioral study, animals were killed and the hippocampal volume and cortical area were estimated. There was a significant reduction of both hippocampal volume and cortical area, ipsilateral to arterial occlusion, in HI animals; environmental stimulation had no effect on these morphological measurements. Presented data indicate that stimulation by the daily environmental enrichment recovers spatial memory deficits caused by neonatal hypoxia-ischemia without affecting tissue atrophy in either hippocampus or cortex.
16931180	An automated online gel permeation chromatography-gas chromatograph mass spectrometer (GPC-GC/MS) was developed for the rapid determination of residual pesticides in agricultural products. Pesticides were extracted from homogenized food samples with acetonitrile and decontaminated via the matrix solid-phase dispersion (MSPD) technique, using a primary secondary amine as sorbent prior to GPC-GC/MS analysis. A slightly modified preparation method and automated GPC step proved useful in minimizing matrix interference. To evaluate the performance of the system, 97 target pesticides were spiked at a concentration of 0.1mg/kg into a range of food types, including potato, cabbage, carrot, apple, orange, cucumber, and rice. A low flow rate of 0.1 mL/min in GPC resulted in a 40-fold reduction in solvent consumption compared with conventional GPC column applications. The combination of MSPD technique and GPC-GC/MS for the analysis of the 97 pesticides can be accomplished within 90 min. Most pesticides were recovered in the range of 70-120%, with relative standard deviation generally less than 10%. The results demonstrate that the method can be successfully applied with acceptable recoveries to a broad range of target pesticides within a diverse range of food types.
16931613	Pedialyte and Gatorade are advocated for the treatment of dehydration in viral gastroenteritis, but there is limited evidence to support their use. We examine the efficacy, safety, and palatability of Pedialyte, Gatorade, and a New Oral Rehydration Solution (N-ORS). This was a randomized double-blind trial conducted in an inpatient, community hospital. Seventy-five consecutive adult patients (male, 42; female, 33) admitted with viral gastroenteritis were randomized to receive Gatorade, Pedialyte, or N-ORS for 48 hours. A yogurt/rice diet was allowed ad libitum. Stool and urine output, electrolytes, fluid intake, body weight, hematocrit, and palatability of solutions were measured. Sixty completed the study. Stool frequency, consistency, and body weight improved (p < .001) in all 3 groups, but there was no difference between groups. Likewise, urine output, hematocrit, and correlations between fluid ingested, stool weight, or urine output were similar. At admission and 24 and 48 hours later, hypokalemia was observed in 7, 10, and 8 patients with Gatorade; 3, 2, and 1 with N-ORS; and 2, 2, and 1 with Pedialyte, respectively. Similarly, hyponatremia was observed in 6, 9, and 3 patients with Gatorade; 5, 3, and 4 with N-ORS; and 4, 5, and 4 with Pedialyte. Tastewise, Gatorade and N-ORS were rated higher (p < .05) than Pedialyte. Limitations were a smaller sample size and higher dropout (20%). Gatorade and N-ORS seem to be as effective as Pedialyte in correcting dehydration and in improving bowel symptoms. All 3 solutions were safe. Unlike other groups, hypokalemia persisted in the Gatorade group. Gatorade and N-ORS may be effective in the treatment of dehydration associated with mild viral gastroenteritis.
1693256	Non-specific complications are encountered relatively often in patients with below normal granulocytic phagocytosis rates. We tested vitamin C, transfer factor, gamma-globulin, BCG, PPD, UV irradiation of the subject's blood (UVB) and hyaluronidase with the aim of stimulating granulocytic phagocytosis with rice starch in autologous serum. In our experiments, only the addition of hyaluronidase caused any increase in phagocytotic activity. The in vitro experiments with hyaluronidase yielded promising results and will be followed up since they may be relevant to practical questions.
16933613	In vitro co-culture technique and DGGE were used to investigate the dynamics of microorganism populations and fermentation characters of co-cultures of rumen fungi and cellulolytic bacteria at different substrates (concentrate to crude ratio in treatment A to E was all rice straw, 3:7, 5:5, 7:3 and all corn, respectively). The results showed that, compared with Oh, fungal population density at 24h increased in treatment B and C, but decreased in treatment A and D, and no fungi was detected in treatment E; but cellulolytic bacteria population at 24h increased with the increasing of concentrate to crude ratio. At the end of 48h fermentation, no fungi were detected in all treatments; cellulolytic bacteria population increased from treatment A to treatment C, but decreased from treatment D. DGGE results showed that samples collected in treatment A, B and C had similar DGGE patterns with about 11 dominant bands, but dominant bands in treatment D and E decreased markedly compared to treatments A, B and C. With the increasing of concentrate to crude ratio, pH value of the co-culture decreased dramatically (P < 0.05). During the fermentation periods, acetate was the major VFA in co-culture, the acetate to propionate ratio decreased from treatment A to treatment C, but increased from treatment D. With the increasing of concentrate to crude ratio, the total VFA at 48h increased from treatment A to treatment C, and then decreased. At the end of 48h fermentation, CMCase activity and xylanase activity were highest in treatment A. alpha-Amylase activity increased from treatment A to treatment D, but treatment E was the lowest in all treatments.
1693396	Because rice remains the most available carbohydrate in developing countries, where chronic diarrhea is most prevalent, we compared the in vitro hydrolysis and clinical tolerance of rice glucose polymer with those of corn glucose polymer. Rice glucose polymer hydrolysis to D-glucose and short-chain polymers (polymers with two to four glucose units and those with five or more units) was similar to that for corn glucose polymers during incubation with saliva or duodenal aspirates. However, rice glucose polymers yielded more short-chain products than corn glucose polymers during incubation with pooled mucosal homogenates (p less than 0.01). In vivo tolerance testing of 16 infants with chronic diarrhea confirmed that rice glucose polymers were well tolerated and, compared with corn glucose polymers, achieved a higher maximal increase of serum glucose concentration (36.6 +/- 7.3 vs 27.6 +/- 10.3 mg/dl; p less than 0.02), a shorter time to peak serum glucose concentration (34.0 +/- 10.2 vs 52.5 +/- 25.7 minutes; p less than 0.02), and a greater area under the serum glucose response curve at 30 minutes (538 +/- 131 vs 1035 +/- 501 cm; p less than 0.02). We conclude that rice glucose polymers are rapidly hydrolyzed in vitro and in vivo and are more rapidly absorbed than are corn glucose polymers in children with chronic diarrhea.
16934282	Textile effluents are major industrial polluters because of high color content, about 15% unfixed dyes and salts. The present paper is aimed to investigate and develop cheap adsorption methods for color removal from wastewater using waste materials activated carbon and activated rice husk-as adsorbents. The method was employed for the removal of Safranin-T and the influence of various factors such as adsorbent dose, adsorbate concentration, particle size, temperature, contact time, and pH was studied. The adsorption of the dye over both the adsorbents was found to follow Langmuir and Freundlich adsorption isotherm models. Based on these models, different useful thermodynamic parameters have been evaluated for both the adsorption processes. The adsorption of Safranin-T over activated carbon and activated rice husks follows first-order kinetics and the rate constants for the adsorption processes decrease with increase in temperature.
16934358	In both the monocot rice and the dicot Arabidopsis, highly expressed genes have more and longer introns and a larger primary transcript than genes expressed at a low level: higher expressed genes tend to be less compact than lower expressed genes. In animal genomes, it is the other way round. Although the length differences in plant genes are much smaller than in animals, these findings indicate that plant genes are in this respect different from animal genes. Explanations for the relationship between gene configuration and gene expression in animals might be (or might have been) less important in plants. We speculate that selection, if any, on genome configuration has taken a different turn after the divergence of plants and animals.
16935986	Cyclotides are peptides from plants of the Rubiaceae and Violaceae families that have the unusual characteristic of a macrocylic backbone. They are further characterized by their incorporation of a cystine knot in which two disulfides, along with the intervening backbone residues, form a ring through which a third disulfide is threaded. The cyclotides have been found in every Violaceae species screened to date but are apparently present in only a few Rubiaceae species. The selective distribution reported so far raises questions about the evolution of the cyclotides within the plant kingdom. In this study, we use a combined bioinformatics and expression analysis approach to elucidate the evolution and distribution of the cyclotides in the plant kingdom and report the discovery of related sequences widespread in the Poaceae family, including crop plants such as rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), and wheat (Triticum aestivum), which carry considerable economic and social importance. The presence of cyclotide-like sequences within these plants suggests that the cyclotides may be derived from an ancestral gene of great antiquity. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to show that two of the discovered cyclotide-like genes from rice and barley (Hordeum vulgare) have tissue-specific expression patterns.
16936841	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) pathogenesis-related (PR)-3 chitinases, like other PR proteins, are each coded by one of the genes of a multigene family in the plant genome. We assembled the database information about rice PR-3 chitinase sequences. A total of 12 PR-3 chitinase loci (Cht1 to Cht12) were found deployed in the rice genome. Some of the loci were occupied by 2 or more alleles. For all the loci expect Cht4, Cht5, Cht6, and Cht11, the amino acid sequence was polymorphic between japonica and indica varieties of rice, but glutamic acid acting as a catalytic residue was completely conserved in all the loci expect Cht7. All the genes except Cht7, which was not tested in this study, were transcripted in some organs (leaf, sheath, root, and meristem) of rice plants. These results suggest that chitinase proteins encoded by the genes at these loci have important biological effects, at least antifungal activities, on rice plants. We also proposed a new classification of rice PR-3 chitinases based on their domain structures. This classification was consistent with the results of phylogenetic analysis of rice chitinases.
16936851	Total genomic DNA was extracted from 29 samples of rice seed, including jasmine rice Oryza sativa L. subsp indica 'KDML105', 'KDML105'-derived varieties, nonaromatic Thailand rice, and japonica rice. Polymorphism in RAPD profiles was analyzed to explore the genomic structure specific to jasmine rice. The degree of band sharing was used to evaluate genetic distance between varieties and to construct a phylogenetic tree. RD15, CNTLR85033, and CNT87040 were found to be closest to 'KDML105', which was consistent with the true relation among them. Four RAPD fragments that cooperatively distinguished jasmine rice from others were cloned and sequenced. PCR amplification using pairs of primers designed specifically further confirmed the credibility of the RAPD result. Comparison through Genbank revealed that a 454 bp RAPD band was similar to the first intron of a putative Cf2/Cf5 disease resistance gene and a 1,107 bp RAPD band similar to a wall-associated kinase (wak) gene sequence.
16937017	We isolated HvRAF (Hordeum vulgare root abundant factor), a cDNA encoding a novel ethylene response factor (ERF)-type transcription factor, from young seedlings of barley. In addition to the most highly conserved APETALA2/ERF DNA-binding domain, the encoded protein contained an N-terminal MCGGAIL signature sequence, a putative nuclear localization sequence, and a C-terminal acidic transcription activation domain containing a novel mammalian hemopexin domain signature-like sequence. Their homologous sequences were found in AAK92635 from rice and RAP2.2 from Arabidopsis; the ERF proteins most closely related to HvRAF, reflecting their functional importance. RNA blot analyses revealed that HvRAF transcripts were more abundant in roots than in leaves. HvRAF expression was induced in barley seedlings by various treatment regimes such as salicylic acid, ethephon, methyl jasmonate, cellulase, and methyl viologen. In a subcellular localization assay, the HvRAF-GFP fusion protein was targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of HvRAF with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription in yeast. Various deletion mutants of HvRAF indicated that the transactivating activity was localized to the acidic domain of the C-terminal region, and that the hemopexin domain signature-like sequence was important for the activity. Overexpression of the HvRAF gene in Arabidopsis plants induced the activation of various stress-responsive genes, including PDF1.2, JR3, PR1, PR5, KIN2, and GSH1. Furthermore, the transgenic Arabidopsis plants showed enhanced resistance to Ralstonia solanacearum strain GMI1000, as well as seed germination and root growth tolerance to high salinity. These results collectively indicate that HvRAF is a transcription factor that plays dual regulatory roles in response to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants.
16937674	The root aphid Tetraneura nigriabdominalis (Sasaki) (Homoptera: Pemphigidae) is a pest of many Gramineae species; however, little is known about its biology and relationships with host plants. The objectives of this study were to quantify the effects of temperature on development, longevity, fecundity, and population growth of T. nigriabdominalis and to assess the effects of host plant on development of T. nigriabdominalis. The effects of temperature on performance of this root aphid were determined at 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, and 35 +/- 1 degrees C on rice roots, Oryza sativa L. Nymphal stages from birth to adult decreased from 46.3 d at 10 degrees C to 8.5 d at 30 degrees C. Aphid survival and development were lowest at 35 degrees C, and no aphid produced progeny at this temperature. Average adult longevity decreased from 23.3 d at 15 degrees C to 8.2 d at temperatures up to 35 degrees C. Average number of nymphs produced per female was highest at 25 degrees C; averaging near 30 nymphs per female, but it dropped to near zero at both 10 and 35 degrees C. The highest intrinsic rate of increase (r(m)) was 0.241 at 30 degrees C. Net reproductive rate (R(0)) ranged from 29.8 at 25 degrees C to 0.2 at 10 degrees C. The generation time (GT) decreased with increasing temperatures from 60.3 d at 10 degrees C to 13.8 d at 30 degrees C. In addition, root aphids reared at 30 degrees C on three host plants [O. sativa, Zea mays L. and Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] revealed that the developmental time of the nymphal stages averaged 6.9 d when reared on O. sativa and 10.7 d when reared on Z. mays. Comparison of the nitrogen content of the three host plants indicated that the root nitrogen content was highest in O. sativa. The effect of nitrogen content on aphid performance, however, is still not clear. Other factors, such as plant secondary chemistry, may play a role in affecting aphid performance.
16938390	In this study, the ability of rice husk to adsorb methylene blue (MB) from aqueous solution was investigated in a fixed-bed column. The effects of important parameters, such as the value of initial pH, existed salt, the flow rate, the influent concentration of MB and bed depth, were studied. The Thomas model was applied to adsorption of MB at different flow rate, influent concentration and bed depth to predict the breakthrough curves and to determine the characteristic parameters of the column useful for process design using non-linear regression. The bed-depth/service time analysis (BDST) model was also applied at different bed depth to predict the breakthrough curves. The two models were found suitable for describing the biosorption process of the dynamic behavior of the rice husk column. All the results suggested that rice husk as adsorbent to removal MB from solution be efficient, and the rate of biosorption process be rapid. When the flow rate was 8.2ml min(-1) and the influent concentration of MB was 50mgl(-1), the equilibrium adsorption biomass reached 4.41mgg(-1) according to Thomas model.
16939000	Rice is known to be one of the most important crops for human consumption. As the model cereal crop, large-scale sequencing of rice genome must play quite important roles both in theoretical research and practical application in rice breeding, which announces the opening of another new way to resolve the world food crisis. At present, the emphasis of rice genome research has been transferred from structure genomics to functional analysis. The discovery of new genes and annotation of gene function was believed to be an important issue in functional genomics research. In this article, the sequencing and functional research of the rice genome were reviewed. These results may provide some useful clues for rice genetic engineering and breeding practices.
16939006	Nilaparvata lugens Stl (brown planthopper, BPH), is one of the major insect pests of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in the temperate rice-growing region. In this study, ASD7 harboring a BPH resistance gene bph2 was crossed to a susceptible cultivar C418, a japonica restorer line. BPH resistance was evaluated using 134 F2:3 lines derived from the cross between "ASD7" and "C418". SSR assay and linkage analysis were carried out to detect bph2. As a result, the resistant gene bph2 in ASD7 was successfully mapped between RM7102 and RM463 on the long arm of chromosome 12, with distances of 7.6 cM and 7.2 cM, respectively. Meanwhile, both phenotypic selection and marker-assisted selection (MAS) were conducted in the BC1F1 and BC2F1 populations. Selection efficiencies of RM7102 and RM463 were determined to be 89.9% and 91.2%, respectively. It would be very beneficial for BPH resistance improvement by using MAS of this gene.
16939276	The potent antimitotic polyketide macrolide rhizoxin, the causal agent of rice seedling blight, is not produced by the fungus Rhizopus microsporus, as has been believed for over two decades, but by endosymbiotic bacteria that reside within the fungal mycelium. Here we report the successful isolation and large-scale fermentation of the bacterial endosymbiont ("Burkholderia rhizoxina") in pure culture, which resulted in a significantly elevated (10x higher) production of antimitotics. In addition to several known rhizoxin derivatives, numerous novel natural and semisynthetic variants were isolated, and their structures were fully elucidated. Cell-based assays as well as tubulin binding experiments revealed that methylated seco-rhizoxin derivatives are 1000-10000 times more active than rhizoxin and thus rank among the most potent antiproliferative agents known to date. Furthermore, more stable didesepoxy rhizoxin analogues were obtained by efficiently inhibiting a putative P-450 monooxygenase involved in macrolide tailoring.
16939341	The qualitative and quantitative characteristics of soil organic carbon (SOC) and related humic acids (HAs) extracted from the soils of field plots were investigated after 8 years of annual paddy (Oryza sativa L.) and upland maize (Zea mays L.) rotation with various fertilizations. Seven fertilization treatments were selected: Ck (no inputs); Chem (chemical fertilizer of NPK); Comp (swine compost); Comp + 33% of Chem N rate; Comp + 67% of Chem N rate; GM (legume green manure) + 33% of Chem N rate; and peat + 33% of Chem N rate. Organic and inorganic nitrogen inputs of six treatments were equivalent with respect of nitrogen content, but Comp, GM, and peat treatments were complemented with various amounts of inorganic N. After harvest of the eighth paddy crop, surface soil samples collected from the plots were subjected to soil characterizations and extraction of humic substances, which were used for chemical, spectroscopic (FTIR, 13C NMR, ESR, X-ray diffractometry), delta13C, and 14C dating analyses. The yields of HAs extracted from the seven treatments were significantly different. Treatment containing persistent organic compound such as the peat + 33% N treatment increased the humification process in topsoils and produced higher yield of HA. Spectroscopic analyses revealed that fertilization treatments changed the functional groups, alkyl C, crystalline characteristics, and delta13C ratios of HAs and turnover rate of SOC considerably. The SOC of the peat + 33% N treatment had the highest mean residence time of 3100 years. Various fertilizer treatments are correlated with turnover rate of SOC and related HAs, which are associated with concerned carbon sequestration as well as mitigation of CO2 emission in the soil environment.
16939342	Induction of male sterility by deployment of chemical hybridizing agents (CHAs) are important in heterosis breeding of self-pollinated crops like wheat, wherein the male and female organs are in the same flower. Taking a lead from the earlier work on rice, a total of 25 N-acylanilines comprising of malonanilates, acetoacetanilides, and acetanilides (including halogenated acetanilides) were synthesized and screened as CHAs on three genotypes of wheat, viz., PBW 343, HD 2046, and HD 2733 at 1500 ppm in the winter of 2001-2002. The N-acylanilines containing variations at the acyl and aromatic domain were synthesized by condensation of substituted anilines with appropriate diesters, acid chlorides, or monoesters. The test compounds with highly electronegative groups such as F/Br at the para position of the aryl ring were identified as the most potent CHAs, causing higher induction of male sterility. A variation of N-substitution at the side chain generally furnished analogues like 4'-fluoroacetoacetanilide (7) and ethyl 4'-fluoromalonanilate (1), which induced 89.12 and 84.66% male sterility, respectively, in PBW 343. Among halogenated acetanilides, the increasing number of chlorine atoms in the side chain led to an increase in the activity of 4'-fluoro (23) and 4'-bromo (24) derivatives of trichoroacetanilides, which induced >87% male sterility. Quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) models indicated the positive contributions of the field effect exemplified by the Swain-Lupton constant (Fp) and negative contributions of the Swain-Lupton resonance constant (R) for the aromatic substitution. The positive influences of parachor (P) for the acyl domain have been underlined. These leads will be significant in explaining the CHA fit in the macromolecular receptor site. The CHAs appeared to act by causing an imbalance in the acid-base equilibrium in pollen mother cells resulting in dissolution of the callose wall by premature callase secretion.
16939348	Monascus has been used for thousands of years. In China, Monascus has been widely used as a natural food-coloring agent for many kinds of foods. The metabolites of Monascus species, specifically, monacolin K, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and dimerumic acid, have been proven to have cholesterol-lowering, blood pressure-lowering, and antioxidant effects. Nowadays, the public has recognized the importance of Monascus products for its many health benefits. The focus of this study is to explore the effects of nanoparticulate dispersion of red mold rice (RMR) after wet-milling technology treatment. An RMR nanoparticulate formulation was reproducibly obtained after milling in the presence of dispersing agent and water. Furthermore, the physical and chemical properties of these RMR particles were studied using electron microscopy, laser light scattering, pH meter, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and photometry. The results demonstrate that RMR (mean size = 20.15 microm), processed with wet-milling technology, forms an aqueous-based nanoparticle dispersion (mean particle size of less than 0.41 microm). In addition, HPLC analyses, performed on the secondary metabolites, demonstrated that monacolin K was reduced to 50-92% of its base level and citrinin was reduced to 48-74% of its base level. When testing for the levels of pH, the processed RMR had increased from a pH level of 4.47-4.82 to 5.56-6.4; also, pigment analysis showed that yellow and red pigments were reduced to 36 and 39% of its base level after the wet-milling process. Partial agglomeration has been observed in RMR dispersion when stored in refrigeration after 2 months. RMR can be formulated as a nanoparticulate dispersion without compromising its stability, but its secondary metabolite extraction rate was changed. Further experimentation will be needed to verify safety and functionality evaluations.
16940040	An H(+)-pyrophosphatase (PPase) gene named TsVP involved in basic biochemical and physiological mechanisms was cloned from Thellungiella halophila. The deduced translation product has similar characteristics to H(+)-PPases from other species, such as Arabidopsis and rice, in terms of bioinformation. The heterologous expression of TsVP in the yeast mutant ena1 suppressed Na(+) hypersensitivity and demonstrated the function of TsVP as an H(+)-PPase. Transgenic tobacco overexpressing TsVP had 60% greater dry weight than wild-type tobacco at 300 mM NaCl and higher viability of mesophyll protoplasts under salt shock stress conditions. TsVP and AVP1, another H(+)-PPase from Arabidopsis, were heterologously expressed separately in both the yeast mutant ena1 and tobacco. The salt tolerance of TsVP or AVP1 yeast transformants and transgenic tobacco were improved to almost the same level. The TsVP transgenic tobacco lines TL3 and TL5 with the highest H(+)-PPase hydrolytic activity were studied further. These transgenic tobacco plants accumulated 25% more solutes than wild-type plants without NaCl stress and 20-32% more Na(+) under salt stress conditions. Although transgenic tobacco lines TL3 and TL5 accumulated more Na(+) in leaf tissues, the malondialdehyde content and cell membrane damage were less than those of the wild type under salt stress conditions. Presumably, compartmentalization of Na(+) in vacuoles reduces its toxic effects on plant cells. This result supports the hypothesis that overexpression of H(+)-PPase causes the accumulation of Na(+) in vacuoles instead of in the cytoplasm and avoids the toxicity of excessive Na(+) in plant cells.
16940959	The production of chlamydospores is a diagnostic tool used to identify Candida albicans; these structures also represent a model for morphogenetic research. The time required to produce them with standard methods is 48-72 hours in rice meal agar and tensoactive agents. This time can be shorted using liquid media such as cornmeal broth (CMB) and dairy supplements. Five media were tested: CMB plus 1% Tween-80, CMB plus 5% milk, CMB plus 5% milk serum, milk serum, and milk serum plus 1% Tween-80, under different incubation conditions: at 28 degrees C and 37 degrees C in a metabolic bath stirring at 150 rpm, and at 28 degrees C in a culture stove. The reading time points were established at 8 and 16 hours. The best results were obtained at 16 hours with CMB plus 5% milk under incubation at 28 degrees C and stirring at 150 rpm. The next most efficient methods were CMB plus 5% milk serum and CMB plus 1% Tween-80, under the same incubation conditions. The other media were ineffective in producing chlamydospores. The absence of stirring at 28 degrees C prevented the formation of chlamydospores within the set time points, and incubation at 37 degrees C decreased their production. This paper reports that the time to form C. albicans chlamydospores can be reduced.
16941211	The wild species Oryza officinalis Wall. ex Watt (2n = 24, CC) is a valuable genetic resource for rice (O. sativa L., 2n = 24, AA) breeding and genomics research. Genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) and molecular approaches were used to determine the nature and composition of the additional chromosome in a monosomic alien addition line (MAAL) of O. officinalis and its backcross progenies. The extra wild species chromosome in the MAAL (2n = 2x = 25) was a mosaic one, comprising of the long arm of chromosome 4 from O. officinalis and the short arm from O. sativa. Comparative analysis showed that O. sativa and O. officinalis shared high synteny of restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers and low synteny of simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. A DNA methylation alteration was revealed at C619 in the MAAL and progenies. Analysis of progenies of the MAAL indicated that introgression segments were small in size and introgression was not evenly distributed along the long arm. One recombination hot spot between C513 and RG177 was identified, which is in a gene-rich region.
16941213	Rice production is known to be severely affected by virus transmitting rice pests, brown planthopper (BPH) and green leafhopper (GLH) of the order hemiptera, feeding by phloem abstraction. ASAL, a novel lectin from leaves of garlic (Allium sativum) was previously demonstrated to be toxic towards hemipteran pests when administered in artificial diet as well as in ASAL expressing transgenic plants. In this report ASAL was targeted under the control of phloem-specific Agrobacterium rolC and rice sucrose synthase-1 (RSs1) promoters at the insect feeding site into popular rice cultivar, susceptible to hemipteran pests. PCR, Southern blot and C-PRINS analyses of transgenic plants have confirmed stable T-DNA integration and the transgenes were co-segregated among self-fertilized progenies. The T(0) and T(1) plants, harbouring single copy of intact T-DNA expression cassette, exhibit stable expression of ASAL in northern and western blot analyses. ELISA showed that the level of expressed ASAL was as high as 1.01% of total soluble protein. Immunohistofluorescence localization of ASAL depicted the expected expression patterns regulated by each promoter type. In-planta bioassay studies revealed that transgenic ASAL adversely affect survival, growth and population of BPH and GLH. GLH resistant T(1) plants were further evaluated for the incidence of tungro disease, caused by co-infection of GLH vectored Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) and Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV), which appeared to be dramatically reduced. The result presented here is the first report of such GLH mediated resistance to infection by RTBV/RTSV in ASAL expressing transgenic rice plant.
16941221	Despite the significant contributions of utilizing heterosis to crop productivity worldwide, the biological mechanisms of heterosis remained largely uncharacterized. In this study, we analyzed gene expression profiles of an elite rice hybrid and the parents at three stages of young panicle development, using a cDNA microarray consisting of 9198 expressed sequence tags (ESTs), with the objective to reveal patterns of gene expression that may be associated with heterosis in yield. A total of 8422 sequences showed hybridization signals in all three genotypes in at least one stage and 5771 sequences produced detectable signals in all slides. Significant differences in expression level were detected for 438 sequences among the three genotypes in at least one of the three stages, as determined by ANOVA validated with 100 permutations at P < 0.05. Significant mid-parent heterosis was detected for 141 sequences, which demonstrated the following features: a much larger number of sequences showed negative heterosis than ones showing positive heterosis; genes functioning in DNA replication and repair tended to show positive heterosis; genes functioning in carbohydrate metabolism, lipid metabolism, energy metabolism, translation, protein degradation, and cellular information processing showed negative heterosis; both positive and negative heterosis were observed for genes in amino acid metabolism, transcription, signal transduction, plant defense and transportation. The results are indicative of the biochemical and physiological activities taking place in the hybrid relative to the parents. Identification of genes showing expression polymorphisms among different genotypes and heterotic expression in the hybrid may provide new avenues for exploring the biological mechanisms underlying heterosis.
16941242	Five of the 207 isolates from different composts, farm waste compost (FWC), rice straw compost (RSC), Gliricidia vermicompost (GVC), and macrofauna, showed rock phosphate (RP) solubilization in buffered medium in plate culture. When tested in RP broth medium, all five strains, Enterobacter cloacae EB 27, Serratia marcescens EB 67, Serratia sp. EB 75, Pseudomonas sp. CDB 35, and Pseudomonas sp. BWB 21, showed gluconic acid production and solubilized RP. Based on cellulose-degrading and P-solubilizing ability, two strains were selected for further studies. In the presence of different carbon sources, both strains showed a drop in pH and solubilized RP. P released was maximum with glucose (1212 and 522 micromol) and minimum with cellobiose (455 and 306 micromol) by S. marcescens EB 67 and Pseudomonas sp. CDB 35, respectively. Glucose dehydrogenase (GDH) activity was 63 and 77% with galactose and 35 and 46% with cellobiose when compared to glucose (100%) by EB 67 and CDB 35, respectively. Both strains solubilized RP in the presence of different crop residues. EB 67 and CDB 35 showed maximum cellulase activity (0.027 units) in the presence of rice straw and a mixture of rice straw and root. P solubilized from RP in the presence of pigeonpea root was 134 and 140 micromol with EB 67 and CDB 35. Significantly, these bacteria isolated from composts and macrofauna solubilized rock phosphate in the presence of various pure carbon substrates and crop residues and their importance in soil/rhizosphere conditions is discussed.
16941905	Magnaporthe oryzae is a major pathogen of rice (Oryza sativa L.) but is also able to infect other grasses, including barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Here, we report a study using Magnaporthe isolates collected from other host plant species to evaluate their capacity to infect barley. A nonhost type of resistance was detected in barley against isolates derived from genera Pennisetum (fontaingrass) or Digitaria (crabgrass), but no resistance occurred in response to isolates from rice, genus Eleusine (goosegrass), wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), or maize (Zea mays L.), respectively. Restriction of pathogen growth in the nonhost interaction was investigated microscopically and compared with compatible interactions. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to quantify fungal biomass in both types of interaction. The phylogenetic relationship among the Magnaporthe isolates used in this study was investigated by inferring gene trees for fragments of three genes, actin, calmodulin, and beta-tubulin. Based on phylogenetic analysis, we could distinguish different species that were strictly correlated with the ability of the isolates to infect barley. We demonstrated that investigating specific host interaction phenotypes for a range of pathogen isolates can accurately highlight genetic diversity within a pathogen population.
16941907	Isolates of Magnaporthe oryzae (the causal agent of rice blast disease) can infect a range of grass species, including barley. We report that barley Hordeum vulgare cv. Baronesse and an experimental line, BCD47, show a range of resistance reactions to infection with two rice blast isolates. The complete resistance of Baronesse to the isolate Ken 54-20 is controlled by a single dominant gene, designated RMo1. RMo1 mapped to the same linkage map position on chromosome 1H as the powdery mildew resistance locus Mla and an expressed sequence tag (k04320) that corresponds to the barley gene 711N16.16. A resistance quantitative trait locus (QTL), at which Baronesse contributed the resistance allele, to the isolate Ken 53-33 also mapped at the same position as RMo1. Synteny analysis revealed that a corresponding region on rice chromosome 5 includes the bacterial blight resistance gene xa5. These results indicate that a defined region on the short arm of barley chromosome 1H, including RMo1 and Mla, harbors genes conferring qualitative and quantitative resistance to multiple pathogens. The partial resistance of BCD47 to Ken53-33 is determined by alleles at three QTL, two of which coincide with the linkage map positions of the mildew resistance genes mlo and Mlf.
16941935	Mosquito species were sampled to determine the mosquito composition and abundance in rice field and plantation communities in Ogun State Nigeria. Mosquitoes were caught once weekly from four selected houses in each of the two communities by means of CDC light traps. A total of 47,501 mosquitoes representing fifteen species were caught in the two communities of which the rice field community accounted for 63.8% of the total catch. Mansonia africana constituted the most important biting mosquito in the two communities representing 62.1% and 39.1% in rice field and plantation communities, respectively. Other species in decreasing order of abundance were M. uniformis, Anopheles gambiae, Coquilletidia fuscopennata, An. moucheti, An. funestus, An. nili, Culex quinquefasciatus, Eretmapodites chrysogaster, Coq. metallica, Cx. annulioris, An. rhodesiensis, Aedes aegypti, An. squamosus and An. maculipennis. Seven mosquito species were caught throughout the year but mostly in the months of May to October. Abundance varied significantly between the study sites and between the months (F,1.11 =241.9 P<0.05) Most of the mosquitoes collected were unfed and nulliparous (87.1%). In spite of the high proportion of M. africana, its parous rate was low 0.53 and 0.59 in rice fileld and plantation, respectively. The highest parity was seen in Ae. aegypti (0.81-0.86) and An. gambiae, (0.69-0.68).
16942608	The exocyst is a hetero-oligomeric protein complex involved in exocytosis and has been extensively studied in yeast and animal cells. Evidence is now accumulating that the exocyst is also present in plants. Bioinformatic analysis of genes encoding plant homologs of the exocyst subunit, Exo70, revealed that three Exo70 subgroups are evolutionarily conserved among angiosperms, lycophytes and mosses. Arabidopsis and rice contain 22 and approximately 39 EXO70 genes, respectively, which can be classified into nine clusters considered to be ancient in angiosperms (one has been lost in Arabidopsis). We characterized two independent T-DNA insertional mutants of the AtEXO70A1 gene (exo70A1-1 and exo70A1-2). Heterozygous EXO70A1/exo70A1 plants appear to be normal and segregate in a 1:2:1 ratio, suggesting that neither male nor female gametophytes are affected by the EXO70A1 disruption. However, both exo70A1-1 and exo70A1-2 homozygotes exhibit an array of phenotypic defects. The polar growth of root hairs and stigmatic papillae is disturbed. Organs are generally smaller, plants show a loss of apical dominance and indeterminate growth where instead of floral meristems new lateral inflorescences are initiated in a reiterative manner. Both exo70A1 mutants have dramatically reduced fertility. These results suggest that the putative exocyst subunit EXO70A1 is involved in cell and organ morphogenesis.
16942995	Fumonisin B1 (FB1) and fumonisin B2 (FB2) are the main members of a family of mycotoxins produced by various fungal species belonging to the Gibberella fujikuroi complex. The present work shows the results of a comparative study of various clean-up and derivatization procedures for analysis of fumonisins in rice cultures. Fumonisins were extracted from rice with acetonitrile/water (50/50, v/v). For clean-up, three solid-phase extraction procedures were assayed (C18 cartridge, SAX cartridge, and a combination of both). Two reagents (o-phthaldialdehyde and 4-fluoro-7-nitro-benzofurazan) were studied comparatively for formation of fluorescent derivatives. The separation was carried out by LC using a fluorescence detector. The best procedure for analysis of fumonisins in rice involved clean-up with C18 cartridge and derivatization with o-phthaldialdehyde. The limit of detection was 0.010 mg kg(-1) for both toxins. In the 10-500 mg kg(-1) spiking level range, the recovery rates for FB1 and FB2 in rice varied from 94.6% to 103.6% and from 96.3% to 101.9%, respectively. The optimized analytical method for determination of fumonisins in rice was applied to the study of FB1 and FB2 production by four isolates of the G. fujikuroi species complex in rice cultures carried out at different temperatures and water activities to establish the influence of strain and environmental conditions on fumonisin production in this cereal. In general, fumonisin production was the highest at 20 degrees C and lowest at 37 degrees C. Four of the five assayed water activity (aw) values (0.97, 0.98, 0.99, and 1.0) did not affect significantly fumonisin accumulation but fumonisins were not detected in cultures when aw was 0.96.
16943022	The role of starch-degrading mycelial fungi, and the alcohol production and ethanol tolerance of the yeasts isolated from selected Vietnamese traditional rice wine starters were examined, and optimum conditions for these essential steps in rice wine fermentation were determined. Of pure isolates from Vietnamese rice wine starters, mould strains identified as Amylomyces rouxii, Amylomyces aff. rouxii, Rhizopus oligosporus and Rhizopus oryzae, were superior in starch degradation, glucose production and amyloglucosidase activity during the saccharification of purple glutinous rice. A. rouxii was able to produce up to 25%w/w glucose with an amyloglucosidase activity up to 0.6 Ug(-1) of fermented moulded mass. Five yeast isolates identified as Saccharomyces cerevisiae were selected for their superior alcohol productivity. They were able to deplete a relatively high initial percentage of glucose (20% w/v), forming 8.8% w/v ethanol. The ethanol tolerance of S. cerevisiae in challenge tests was 9-10% w/v, and 13.4% w/v as measured in fed-batch fermentations. Optimum conditions for the saccharification were: incubation for 2 d at 34 degrees C, of steamed rice inoculated with 5 log cfu g(-1); for the alcoholic fermentation 4 d at 28.3 degrees C, of saccharified rice liquid inoculated with 5.5 log cfu mL(-1).
16943088	The prevalence of Bacillus cereus, in a total of 381 samples of dried milk products (milk with rice, milk substitute, milk powder, milk-cereal-rice, pudding milk, flan, and mousse) used by the Chilean School Feeding Program, was investigated. The potential of 94 selected isolates of B. cereus to produce diarrhoeal enterotoxin (by the BCET-RPLA test) in BHI culture, as well as the ability of enterotoxigenic-strains to grow at psychrotrophic temperatures were also verified. B. cereus was found in 175 of 381 of the samples analysed (45.9%), reaching levels from 3.0 to 10(4) spores g(-1). As expected, the higher prevalence and counts were observed in those products that contained whole rice, cereals and pulses extruded, and food additives. Of the 94 isolates of B. cereus tested for diarrhoeal enterotoxin production, 28 (29.8%) were positive, and none of these was able to grow at < or = 7 degrees C. The prevalence of B. cereus in dried milk products analysed was fairly high, although it was present in low number. However, as they were composed to a large extent of enterotoxigenic mesophilic strains, the potential risk for the safety of reconstituted products held at improper temperature should not be neglected.
16943595	Epithermal instrumental neutron activation analysis (EINAA) has been used to determine the iodine content of many individual food materials that constitute the typical Libyan diet. The selected samples include different varieties of local and imported foods such as wheat and barley products, rice, bread, legumes such as chick peas and lentil, table salt, and commonly used spices, including thyme and fenugreek. Both conventional and anticoincidence gamma-ray spectrometry techniques have been employed. Epithermal INAA in conjunction with anticoincidence counting has been found to provide the most reliable results. For quality control purposes, a number of NIST biological reference materials were analyzed. The range of daily dietary intake has been calculated as 100-180 microg of iodine per day, which is within the recommended range. Bread was identified as a significant source of iodine in the Libyan diet, as it contributed 99 microg/d.
16944204	Putative plant adhesion molecules include arabinogalactan-proteins having fasciclin-like domains. In animal, fasciclin proteins participate in cell adhesion and communication. However, the molecular basis of interactions in plants is still unknown and none of these domains have been characterized in cereals. This work reports the characterization of 34 wheat (Triticum aestivum) and 24 rice (Oryza sativa) Fasciclin-Like Arabinogalactan-proteins (FLAs). Bioinformatics analyses show that cereal FLAs share structural characteristics with known Arabidopsis FLAs including arabinogalactan-protein and fasciclin conserved domains. At least 70% of the wheat and rice FLAs are predicted to be glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored to the plasma membranes. Expression analyses determined from the relative abundance of ESTs in the publicly available wheat EST databases and from RNA gel blots indicate that most of these genes are weakly expressed and found mainly in seeds and roots. Furthermore, most wheat genes were down regulated by abiotic stresses except for TaFLA9 and 12 where cold treatment induces their expression in roots. Plant fasciclin-like domains were predicted to have 3-D homology with FAS1 domain of the fasciclin I insect neural cell adhesion molecule with an estimated precision above 70%. The structural analysis shows that negatively charged amino acids are concentrated along the beta1-alpha3-alpha4-beta2 edges, while the positively charged amino acids are concentrated on the back side of the folds. This highly charged surface distribution could provide a way of mediating protein-protein interactions via electrostatic forces similar to many other adhesion molecules. The identification of wheat FLAs will facilitate studying their function in plant growth and development and their role in stress response.
16944282	Aspergillus oryzae is used extensively for the production of the traditional Japanese fermented foods sake (rice wine), shoyu (soy sauce), and miso (soybean paste). In recent years, recombinant DNA technology has been used to enhance industrial enzyme production by A. oryzae. Recently completed genomic studies using expressed sequence tag (EST) analyses and whole-genome sequencing are quickly expanding the industrial potential of the fungus in biotechnology. Genes that have been newly discovered through genome research can be used for the production of novel valuable enzymes and chemicals, and are important for designing new industrial processes. This article describes recent progress of A . oryzae genomics and its impact on industrial production of enzymes, metabolites, and bioprocesses.
16944574	In this report, the process of hybridization between different ploidy levels was observed in rice. Autotriploid (2n = 36) 149-B, generated naturally from the twin-seedling rice population SAR-2, was used as the female parent crossing with a normal diploid variety Shuhui 363. The processes of fertilization and embryological development were investigated. The pollen could germinate in triploid tissue of pistil normally and arrive at micropyle. But the percentage of double fertilization was only 8.89%, and the percentage of seed setting was 0.566%. The hybridization obstacles mainly occurred in the process of fertilization. Barriers of double fertilization, prolongation and abnormal development of proembryo, and even development stopping or differentiation failure of embryo and/or endosperm could result in abnormal development and abortion of zygote.
16945089	Here, we characterized silicon (Si) uptake and xylem loading in Oryza sativa, Zea mays, Helianthus annuus and Benincase hispida in a series of hydroponic experiments. Both active and passive Si-uptake components co-exist in all the plants tested. The active component is the major mechanism responsible for Si uptake in O. sativa and Z. mays. By contrast, passive uptake prevails in H. annuus and B. hispida at a higher external Si concentration (0.85 mM), while the active component constantly exists and contributes to the total Si uptake, especially at a lower external Si concentration (0.085 mM). Short experiments showed that Si uptake was significantly suppressed in O. sativa and Z. mays by metabolic inhibitors or low temperature, regardless of external Si concentrations. By contrast, Si uptake in H. annuus and B. hispida was inhibited more significantly by metabolic inhibitors or low temperature at lower (for example, 0.085 mM) than at higher (for example, 1.70 mM) external Si concentrations. It can be concluded that both active and passive Si-uptake components co-exist in O. sativa, Z. mays, H. annuus and B. hispida, with their relative contribution being dependent much upon both plant species and external Si concentrations.
1694542	Germinated rice, corn, mungbean, cowpea, and weaning foods prepared from their selected combinations were studied for their saccharide profile by TLC, total and soluble sugars content, and amylase activities in the flour and gruel samples. The enzyme system present in the germinated materials resulted in the partial digestion of carbohydrates into maltooligosaccharides, as shown by TLC pattern and soluble sugars determination of all materials germinated for 48, 72, and 96 h. Rice had the highest concentration of amylase, followed by cowpea, corn, and mungbean. The amylolytic activity produced during germination was retained in the flour despite drying and roasting processes involved. The processes of germination and gruel preparation of germinated materials contributed to the digestibility of weaning foods prepared from cereals and legumes.
16947054	McCPK1 (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum calcium-dependent protein kinase 1) mRNA expression is transiently salinity- and dehydrationstress responsive. The enzyme also undergoes dynamic subcellular localization changes in response to these same stresses. Using the yeast-two hybrid system, we have isolated and characterized a M. crystallinum CPK1 Adaptor Protein 2 (McCAP2). We show that McCPK1 interacts with the C-terminal, coiled-coil containing region of McCAP2 in the yeast two-hybrid system. This interaction was confirmed in vitro between the purified recombinant forms of each of the proteins and in vivo by coimmunoprecipitation experiments from plant extracts. McCAP2, however, was not a substrate for McCPK1. Computational threading analysis suggested that McCAP2 is a member of a novel family of proteins with unknown function also found in rice and Arabidopsis. These proteins contain coiled-coil spectrin repeat domains present in the syntaxin super-family that participate in vesicular and protein trafficking. Consistent with the interaction data, subcellular localization and fractionation studies showed that McCAP2 colocalizes with McCPK1 to vesicular structures located on the actin cytoskeleton and within the endoplasmic reticulum in cells subjected to low humidity stress. McCAP2 also colocalizes with AtVTIl1a, an Arabidopsis v-SNARE [vesicle-soluble N-ethyl maleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) attachment protein (SNAP) receptor] present in the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and prevacuolar compartments (PVCs). Both interaction and subcellular localization studies suggest that McCAP2 may possibly serve as an adaptor protein responsible for vesicle-mediated trafficking of McCPK1 to or from the plasma membrane along actin microfilaments of the cytoskeleton.
16947059	Simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers are highly informative and widely used for genetic and breeding studies. Currently, a very limited number of SSR markers are available for tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) and other forage grass species. A tall fescue genomic library enriched in (GA/CT)(n) repeats was used to develop primer pairs (PPs) flanking SSRs and assess PP functionality across different forage, cereal, and turf grass species. A total of 511 PPs were developed and assessed for their utility in six different grass species. The parents and a subset of a tall fescue mapping population were used to select PPs for mapping in tall fescue. Survey results revealed that 48% (in rice) to 66% (in tall fescue) of the PPs produced clean SSR-type amplification products in different grass species. Polymorphism rates were higher in tall fescue (68%) compared to other species (46% ryegrass, 39% wheat, and 34% rice). A set of 194 SSR loci (38%) were identified which amplified across all six species. Loci segregating in the tall fescue mapping population were grouped as loci segregating from the female parent (HD28-56, 37%), the male parent (R43-64, 37%), and both parents (26%). Three percent of the loci that were polymorphic between parents were monomorphic in the pseudo F1 mapping population and the remaining loci segregated. Sequencing of amplified products obtained from PP NFFAG428 revealed a very high level of sequence similarity among the grass species under study. Our results are the first report of genomic SSR marker development from tall fescue and they demonstrate the usefulness of these SSRs for genetic linkage mapping in tall fescue and cross-species amplification.
16948355	Rice is a cereal that is mainly produced and widely consumed in Asian countries including Korea. Several reports have suggested a role of IgE-mediated hypersensitivity in asthma and eczema associated with ingestion or inhalation of rice. In Japan, hypoallergenic rices are used for a substitute of common rice in some atopic patients. We performed this study to identify major allergens of rice and changed allergenicity in cooked and hypoallergenic rice. We purified crude extracts from a variety of rice and analyzed their protein distributions by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Based on UniCAP test and skin-prick test, we selected sera with high sensitivity and analyzed specific IgE binding to rice by immunoblotting. In addition, the inhibition rate among some rice was determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and CAP test. As the result of this study, rice with various origins and polishing levels had no difference in protein band pattern. After cooking, it was difficult to detect protein bands distributed in raw rice; and, even through IgE immunoblot analysis, it was impossible to differentiate between wild and hypoallergenic rice. In addition, both wild and hypoallergenic rice still had IgE binding activity on their remaining protein bands. In conclusion, almost all proteins of rice were excluded or weakened in the process of boiling and IgE binding activity still remained even in hypoallergenic rice.
16948529	In Arabidopsis, tandemly arrayed genes (TAGs) comprise >10% of the genes in the genome. These duplicated genes represent a rich template for genetic innovation, but little is known of the evolutionary forces governing their generation and maintenance. Here we compare the organization and evolution of TAGs between Arabidopsis and rice, two plant genomes that diverged ~150 million years ago. TAGs from the two genomes are similar in a number of respects, including the proportion of genes that are tandemly arrayed, the number of genes within an array, the number of tandem arrays, and the dearth of TAGs relative to single copy genes in centromeric regions. Analysis of recombination rates along rice chromosomes confirms a positive correlation between the occurrence of TAGs and recombination rate, as found in Arabidopsis. TAGs are also biased functionally relative to duplicated, nontandemly arrayed genes. In both genomes, TAGs are enriched for genes that encode membrane proteins and function in "abiotic and biotic stress" but underrepresented for genes involved in transcription and DNA or RNA binding functions. We speculate that these observations reflect an evolutionary trend in which successful tandem duplication involves genes either at the end of biochemical pathways or in flexible steps in a pathway, for which fluctuation in copy number is unlikely to affect downstream genes. Despite differences in the age distribution of tandem arrays, the striking similarities between rice and Arabidopsis indicate similar mechanisms of TAG generation and maintenance.
16949128	Fertilized agricultural soils are a major anthropogenic source of atmospheric N(2)O. A credible national inventory of agricultural N(2)O emission would benefit its global strength estimate. We compiled a worldwide database of N(2)O emissions from fertilized fields that were consecutively measured for more than or close to one year. Both nitrogen input (N) and precipitation (P) were found to be largely responsible for temporal and spatial variabilities in annual N(2)O fluxes (N(2)O-N). Thus, we established an empirical model (N(2)O-N=1.49 P+0.0186 P.N), in which both emission factor and background emission for N(2)O were rectified by precipitation. In this model, annual N(2)O emission consists of a background emission of 1.49 P and a fertilizer-induced emission of 0.0186 P.N. We used this model to develop a spatial inventory at the 10x10km scale of direct N(2)O emissions from agriculture in China. N(2)O emissions from rice paddies were separately quantified using a cropping-specific emission factor. Annual fertilizer-induced N(2)O emissions amounted to 198.89GgN(2)O-N in 1997, consisting of 18.50GgN(2)O-N from rice paddies and 180.39GgN(2)O-N from fertilized uplands. Annual background emissions and total emissions of N(2)O from agriculture were estimated to be 92.78GgN(2)O-N and 291.67GgN(2)O-N, respectively. The annual direct N(2)O emission accounted for 0.92% of the applied N with an uncertainty of 29%. The highest N(2)O fluxes occurred in East China as compared with the least fluxes in West China.
16949727	Abandoned mines are an important global concern and continue to pose real or potential threats to human safety and health including environmental damage/s. Very few countries had government mine regulation and reclamation policies until the latter part of the century where legal, financial and technical procedures were required for existing mining operations. Major reasons for mine closure may be mainly due to poor economies of the commodity making mining unprofitable, technical difficulties and national security. If the mine is abandoned, more often than not it is the government that shoulders the burden of clean-up, monitoring and remediation. The topic of abandoned mines is complex because of the associated financial and legal liability implications. Abandoned mercury mines have been identified as one of the major concerns because of their significant long-term environmental problems. Primary mercury production is still ongoing in Spain, Kyrgzystan, China, Algeria, Russia and Slovakia while world production declined substantially in the late 1980s. In the Philippines, the mercury mine located southeast of Manila was in operation from 1955 to 1976, before ceasing operation because of the decline in world market price for the commodity. During this time, annual production of mercury was estimated to be about 140,000 kg of mercury yearly. Approximately 2,000,000 t of mine-waste calcines (retorted ore) were produced during mining and roughly 1,000,000 t of these calcines were dumped into nearby Honda Bay to construct a jetty to facilitate mine operations where about 2000 people reside in the nearby three barangays. In October, 1994 the Department of Health received a request from the Provincial Health Office for technical assistance relative to the investigation of increasing complaints of unusual symptoms (e.g. miscarriages, tooth loss, muscle weakness, paralysis, anemia, tremors, etc.) among residents of three barangays. Initial health reports revealed significant elevation of blood mercury levels exceeding the then recommended exposure level of 20ppb in 12 out of the 43 (27.9%) residents examined. The majority of the volunteers were former mine workers. In this study the abnormal findings included gingivitis, mercury lines, gum bleeding and pterydium. The most common neurologic complaints were numbness, weakness, tremors and incoordination. Anemia and elevated liver function tests were also seen in a majority of those examined. The assessment also revealed a probable association between blood mercury level and eosinophilia. The same association was also seen between high mercury levels and the presence of tremors and working in the mercury mine. To date, there are very limited environmental and health studies on the impact of both total and methylmercury that have been undertaken in the Philippines. Thus, this area of study was selected primarily because of its importance as an emerging issue in the country, especially regarding the combined effects of total and methylmercury low-dose and continuous uptake from environmental sources. At present the effects of total mercury exposure combined with MeHg consumption remain an important issue, especially those of low-dose and continuous uptake. Results of the study showed that four (4) species of fish, namely ibis, tabas, lapu-lapu and torsillo, had exceeded the recommended total mercury and methylmercury levels in fish (NV>0.5 microg/gf.w., NV>0.3 microg/gf.w., respectively). Saging and kanuping also exceeded the permissible levels for methylmercury. Total and methylmercury in canned fish, and total mercury in rice, ambient air and drinking water were within the recommended levels, however, additional mercury load from these sources may contribute to the over-all body burden of mercury among residents in the area. Surface water quality at the mining area, Honda Bay and during some monitoring periods at Palawan Bay exceeded total mercury standards (NV>0.002 ng/mL). Soil samples in two sites, namely Tagburos and Honda Bay, exceeded the EPA Region 9 Primary Remediation Goal recommended values for total mercury for residential purposes (NV>23 mg/kg). The hand to mouth activity among infants and children is another significant route for mercury exposure. Statistically significant results were obtained for infants when comparing the results after one year of monitoring for methylmercury levels in hair for both exposed and control sub-groups. Likewise, comparing the initial and final hair methylmercury levels among pregnant women/mothers in the exposed group showed statistically significant (p<0.05) results. Comparing the exposed and control sub-groups' mercury hair levels per sub-group showed statistically significant results among the following: (a) initial and final total mercury hair levels among children, (b) initial and final methylmercury hair levels among children, (c) final total mercury hair levels among pregnant women, (d) initial and final total mercury hair levels among mothers, and (e) initial and final methyl hair levels among mothers.
16949956	When seedlings of two rice (Oryza sativa L.) cvs. Malviya-36 and Pant-12 were raised under 25 and 50 microM As2O3 in the medium an increase in the level of RNA, proteins and proline accompanied with a decline in the level of free amino acid pool was observed under arsenic supplementation compared to controls. In situ As3+ treatment caused a marked inhibition in activities of ribonuclease (RNase, EC 3.1.27.1), protease and leucine aminopeptidase (LAP, EC 3.4.11.1) whereas the activity level of carboxypeptidase (EC 3.4.16.5) was enhanced. In vitro supply of As2O3 in the enzyme assay medium beyond 400 microM resulted in gradual inhibition of RNase and beyond 5 microM inhibition of LAP activities. Addition of 1M proline in the assay medium significantly restored the loss in RNase activity due to in vitro arsenic treatment or due to osmotic stress created by incorporation of polyethylene glycol (PEG). Isoform pattern of RNase extracted from As3+ -exposed seedlings showed a significant alteration compared to its pattern in unexposed seedlings. Results suggest that arsenic exposure impairs hydrolysis of RNA and proteins in rice seedlings due to inhibition of RNase and proteases activities and that proline accumulating under As3+ toxicity appears to serve as enzyme protectant.
16950497	Cadmium contamination in rice grains is one of the important issues in Asian countries. We have developed a novel bio-remediation system based on the symbiosis between leguminous plant and genetically engineered rhizobia. We designed two types of recombinant rhizobia, carrying two genes, synthetic tetrameric metallothionein (MTL4) and cDNA encoding phytochelatin synthase from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtPCS). The MTL4 and AtPCS genes were transferred to Mesorhizobium huakuii subsp. rengei B3, which can infect and form nodules on Chinese milk vetch, Astragalus sinicus. The two genes were fused to the nolB or nifH promoter, which generated nodule specific expression of these genes in strain B3. The two recombinant strains, B3(pMPnolBMTL4nifHPCS) and B3::nifHMTL4(pMPnifHPCS), showed 25 and 12-fold increase in Cd concentration, in the free-living cells, respectively. When these recombinant strains established the symbiotic relationship with A. sinicus, the symbionts increased Cd accumulation in nodules by two-fold in hydroponic culture. The expression of the both MTL4 and AtPCS genes showed additive effect on cadmium accumulation in nodules. We also applied these recombinant bacteria to rice paddy soil polluted with Cd (1mgkg(-1) dry weight soil). The accumulation of Cd increased not only in nodules but also in the roots of A. sinicus infected by the recombinant rhizobia. The accumulation of Cd in the plant roots infected by B3(pMPnolBMTL4nifHPCS) achieved three-fold than that by the wild-type B3. After two months of cultivation of the symbiont, a maximum of 9% of Cd in paddy soil was removed. Thus, the symbiosis will be useful in phytoremediation for heavy metals.
16951068	While much study has gone into characterizing virulence factors that play a general role in disease, less work has been directed at identifying pathogen factors that act in a host-specific manner. Understanding these factors will help reveal the variety of mechanisms used by pathogens to suppress or avoid host defenses. We identified candidate Pseudomonas syringae host-specific virulence genes by searching for genes whose distribution among natural P. syringae isolates was statistically associated with hosts of isolation. We analyzed 91 strains isolated from 39 plant hosts by DNA microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization against an array containing 353 virulence-associated (VA) genes, including 53 type III secretion system effectors (T3SEs). We identified individual genes and gene profiles that were significantly associated with strains isolated from cauliflower, Chinese cabbage, soybean, rice, and tomato. We also identified specific horizontal gene acquisition events associated with host shifts by mapping the array data onto the core genome phylogeny of the species. This study provides the largest suite of candidate host-specificity factors from any pathogen, suggests that there are multiple ways in which P. syringae isolates can adapt to the same host, and provides insight into the evolutionary mechanisms underlying host adaptation.
16953433	The present study established that there are two distinct polymeric forms of isoamylase1 (ISA1) in rice endosperm: presumably a homo-pentamer of ISA1 and a hetero-hexamer composed of five ISA1 and one ISA2. The molecular sizes of the homo- and hetero-oligomers, which could be fractionated by hydrophobic chromatography, were approximately 420-480 and 510-550 kDa, respectively. The hetero-oligomer exhibited higher affinities for various branched polyglucans, especially for phytoglycogen, which had a K(m) value that was approximately 12 times lower relative to that with the homo-oligomer, although no marked differences were found in chain preferences for debranching of amylopectin and phytoglycogen between these forms. The hetero-oligomer was active even when incubated at 50 degrees C for 10 min, while the homo-multimer was completely inactivated at 40 degrees C in 10 min. When the ISA1 homo-oligomer was incubated with the ISA2 protein expressed in Escherichia coli and applied onto a nondenature polyacrylamide gel, additional debranching activity bands which were specific for the purified ISA1-ISA2 preparation were also detected, indicating that ISA1 and ISA2 combine to form a hetero-oligomer. These results suggest that the hetero-oligomer plays a predominant role in the amylopectin biosynthesis in rice endosperm although the homo-oligomer can complement the function of the hetero-oligomer at least to some extent.
16953494	The joint action of soil-applied herbicide mixtures with similar or different modes of action has been assessed by using the additive dose model (ADM). The herbicides chlorsulfuron, metsulfuron-methyl, pendimethalin and pretilachlor, applied either singly or in binary mixtures, were used on rice (Oryza sativa L.). The growth (shoot) response curves were described by a logistic dose-response model. The ED50 values and their corresponding standard errors obtained from the response curves were used to test statistically if the shape of the isoboles differed from the reference model (ADM). Results showed that mixtures of herbicides with similar molecular targets, i.e. chlorsulfuron and metsulfuron (acetolactate synthase (ALS) inhibitors), and with different molecular targets, i.e. pendimethalin (microtubule assembly inhibitor) and pretilachlor (very long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) inhibitor), followed the ADM. Mixing herbicides with different molecular targets gave different results depending on whether pretilachlor or pendimethalin was involved. In general, mixtures of pretilachlor and sulfonylureas showed synergistic interactions, whereas mixtures of pendimethalin and sulfonylureas exhibited either antagonistic or additive activities. Hence, there is a large potential for both increasing the specificity of herbicides by using mixtures and lowering the total dose for weed control, while at the same time delaying the development of herbicide resistance by using mixtures with different molecular targets.
16955737	The 45-days-old seedlings of drought resistant (N-22, CR143-2-2) and susceptible rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes (Panidhan, Pusa-169) were subjected to osmotic stress in PEG-6000 solution of -10 and -16 bar and the relative water content (RWC), proline content, and pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) activity and its P5CS expression were studied. A gradual decrease in RWC was observed in tolerant genotypes, whereas the decrease was drastic in susceptible ones. Proline content and P5CS activity increased both in susceptible and tolerant genotypes; the increase was higher in tolerant genotypes. Higher proline levels in tolerant genotypes were due to increased P5CS activity. The EcoRI, BamHI and XbaI restricted DNA of N-22 and Panidhan genotypes were hybridized with Arabidopsis P5CS sequence and a single band (approx 2.4 kb) was observed, however, P5CS expression was more in N-22 as compared to Panidhan.
16955792	A rice double mutant was derived from the transgenic process,but it does not carry the alien gene. The mutant showed white stripe on stem, leaf and spikelet. In some growing stage,the leaf started to produce fork or curliness. The floret number increased, showing multi-lemma/palea, palea-like or lemma-like lodicules or enlarged lodicules, additional pistil and stamen and the spited floret. With observation of cell ultra structure using electron microscope,the white tissue showed concaved cell wall and abnormal plastid which could not develop normal lamellae and thylakoid. The contents of chlorophyll and net photosynthesis rate in the mutant were obviously lower than those in the wild type. The cells in green sectors grow normally with the exception of the bigger cell volume. The morphogenesis of floral organ was observed by using the scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Results showed that the stamen development was not synchronal and the sizes of stamen primordium were different in mutant, and the carpel was smaller than that of wild type.
16955884	Concern has been raised by Bangladeshi and international scientists about elevated levels of arsenic in Bengali food, particularly in rice grain. This is the first inclusive food market-basket survey from Bangladesh, which addresses the speciation and concentration of arsenic in rice, vegetables, pulses, and spices. Three hundred thirty aman and boro rice, 94 vegetables, and 50 pulse and spice samples were analyzed for total arsenic, using inductivity coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The districts with the highest mean arsenic rice grain levels were all from southwestern Bangladesh: Faridpur (boro) 0.51 > Satkhira (boro) 0.38 > Satkhira (aman) 0.36 > Chuadanga (boro) 0.32 > Meherpur (boro) 0.29 microg As g(-1). The vast majority of food ingested arsenic in Bangladesh diets was found to be inorganic; with the predominant species detected in Bangladesh rice being arsenite (AsIII) or arsenate (AsV) with dimethyl arsinic acid (DMAV) being a minor component. Vegetables, pulses, and spices are less important to total arsenic intake than water and rice. Predicted inorganic arsenic intake from rice is modeled with the equivalent intake from drinking water for a typical Bangladesh diet. Daily consumption of rice with a total arsenic level of 0.08 microg As g(-1) would be equivalent to a drinking water arsenic level of 10 microg L(-1).
16956633	Rice (Oryza sativa) is a staple food crop and serves as a model cereal crop plant for scientific study. Phytochemical investigations of the agronomically devastating rice blast disease have identified a number of rice phytoalexins exhibiting significant direct anti-fungal activity against the causative agent, Magneporthe grisea. Current evidence strongly indicates that these phytoalexins, largely a family of labdane-related diterpenoids, are important as general antibiotics, and that similar phytoalexins are produced more broadly throughout the cereal crop family. From the extensive sequence information available for rice it has been possible to functionally identify the genes for the enzymes catalyzing the two consecutive cyclization reactions that initiate biosynthesis of these labdane-related diterpenoid phytoalexins. This has led to several insights into the underlying evolution of diterpene biosynthesis throughout the cereal crop family. The hydrocarbon olefins resulting from cyclization must be further elaborated to form bioactive natural products and, because not much is currently known, necessarily speculative biosynthetic pathways for these processes are presented. Given the significant antibiotic activity of the labdane-related diterpenoid phytoalexins from rice, and the presence of similar secondary metabolism throughout the cereal crop plant family, study of this type of biosynthesis will continue to be an area of active investigation.
16956645	The importance of the use of potassium in agriculture is increasing in South Asia for making most productive use of the nutrient in terms of economic returns. Nutrient supply traditionally by cattle manure is constrained by its insufficient availability. Municipal waste compost may be an alternative source of nutrient supplements. Field experiments were conducted at the Experimental Farm of Calcutta University, West Bengal, India during the wet seasons of 1997, 1998 and 1999 on flooded lowland rice. Potassium fractions in municipal waste compost and cattle manure were determined by sequential extraction and also the potassium uptake by rice to compare the effectiveness of municipal waste compost with traditional manure. Potassium was significantly bound to the organic matter in municipal waste compost. Potassium uptake by rice grain and straw increased significantly with the combined application of organics and fertilizers and it was higher in grain than in straw. Water-soluble and non-exchangeable potassium contents of municipal waste compost and cattle manure were highly correlated with the uptake of potassium by straw and grain. Exchangeable and residual potassium were also significantly correlated with the uptake of potassium by straw and grain of rice. Much higher uptake of K in rice straw and rain resulted from applying the manures in conjunction with fertilizers than when applied singly.
16956716	A traditional method for removal of iron from ground water by using ash has been systematically investigated. Ashes from five different sources, viz., banana rind, banana pseudostem, banana leaf, rice husk and bamboo has been studied. The principle applied is enhanced precipitation of iron at high pH caused by ash. The study included laboratory analysis of some relevant chemical parameters of the ashes and the efficiency of the ashes in removing iron from prefabricated water with respect to quantity of ash and corresponding increase in pH of water. The ash of banana pseudostem has been found to be most suitable for removal of iron. A low-cost and easily made iron removal system for household use has been designed and tested in the laboratory. The ash of banana pseudostem has been found to remove iron to below 0.3ppm without increasing the pH above the acceptable limit. The optimum values of the different parameters for removal of iron are 200-300mgl(-1) ash, 1.0lh(-1) flow rate and 1h of contact time with ash for groundwater having [Fe] of about 2.20ppm. The amount of ash can be increased for groundwater having higher [Fe] and can be decreased gradually during continuous use of the system. Acceptability of the method has been examined based on chemical analysis of the treated water. Increase in the essential minerals such as Ca, K has been observed in the water after treatment. The designed iron removing system is expected to be suitable for household use.
16956885	A growing body of evidence indicates that phytooxylipins play important roles in plant defense responses. However, many enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of these metabolites are still elusive. We have purified one of these enzymes, the peroxygenase (PXG), from oat microsomes and lipid droplets. It is an integral membrane protein requiring detergent for its solubilization. Proteinase K digestion showed that PXG is probably deeply buried in lipid droplets or microsomes with only about 2 kDa at the C-terminal region accessible to proteolytic digestion. Sequencing of the N terminus of the purified protein showed that PXG had no sequence similarity with either a peroxidase or a cytochrome P450 but, rather, with caleosins, i.e. calcium-binding proteins. In agreement with this finding, we demonstrated that recombinant thale cress and rice caleosins, expressed in yeast, catalyze hydroperoxide-dependent mono-oxygenation reactions that are characteristic of PXG. Calcium was also found to be crucial for peroxygenase activity, whereas phosphorylation of the protein had no impact on catalysis. Site-directed mutagenesis studies revealed that PXG catalytic activity is dependent on two highly conserved histidines, the 9 GHz EPR spectrum being consistent with a high spin pentacoordinated ferric heme.
16957091	Sugar recognition specificities of class III (OsChib1a) and class I (OsChia1cDeltaChBD) chitinases from rice, Oryza sativa L., were investigated by analyzing (1)H- and (13)C-nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of the enzymatic products from partially N-acetylated chitosans. The reducing end residue of the enzymatic products obtained by the class III enzyme was found to be exclusively acetylated, whereas both acetylated and deacetylated units were found at the nearest neighbor to the reducing end residue. Both acetylated and deacetylated units were also found at the nonreducing end residue and its nearest neighbor of the class III enzyme products. Thus, only subsite (-1) among the contiguous subsites (-2) to (+2) of the class III enzyme was found to be specific to an acetylated residue. For the class I enzyme, the reducing end residue was preferentially acetylated, although the specificity was not absolute. The nearest neighbor to the acetylated reducing end residue was specifically acetylated. Moreover, the nonreducing end residue produced by the class I enzyme was exclusively acetylated, although there was a low but significant preference for deacetylated units at the nearest neighbor to the nonreducing end. These results suggest that the three contiguous subsites (-2), (-1), and (+1) of the class I enzyme are specific to three consecutive GlcNAc residues of the substrate. In rice plants, the target of the class I enzyme might be a consecutive GlcNAc sequence probably in the cell wall of fungal pathogen, whereas the class III enzyme might act toward an endogenous complex carbohydrate containing GlcNAc residue.
16957124	A strictly anaerobic, xylanolytic bacterium, strain KB3(T), isolated from rice-plant residue in flooded anoxic rice-field soil in Japan, was characterized phenotypically and phylogenetically. Cells were Gram-negative, non-motile, non-spore-forming, short to filamentous rods. Growth of the strain was remarkably stimulated by the addition of haemin to the medium. The novel strain utilized various sugars including xylan, xylose, pectin and carboxymethylcellulose and produced acetate, propionate and succinate with a small amount of malate. Propionate production was stimulated by the addition of a B-vitamin mixture or cobalamin to the medium. The novel strain was slightly acidophilic with an optimum pH 5.7-6.2 and the optimum growth temperature was 30 degrees C. Oxidase, catalase and nitrate-reducing activities were negative. Aesculin was hydrolysed. The major cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C(15 : 0) and iso-3-OH C(17 : 0). The major respiratory quinones were menaquinones MK-12(H(2)) and MK-13(H(2)). The genomic DNA G+C content was 43.6 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequence placed the strain in the phylum Bacteroidetes. The closest related species was Prevotella bivia with a 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity of 89.5 %. Prevotella albensis and Prevotella oulorum were the next closest recognized species with sequence similarities of 89.1 %. Based on a comprehensive examination of the differences in phylogenetic, ecological, physiological and chemotaxonomic characteristics of strain KB3(T) and those of related species, a novel genus and species, Xylanibacter oryzae gen. nov., sp. nov., is proposed to accommodate strain KB3(T). The type strain of the novel species is KB3(T) (=JCM 13648(T)=DSM 17970(T)).
16957248	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the cause of bacterial leaf streak in rice, possesses clusters of hrp genes that determine its ability to elicit a hypersensitive response (HR) in nonhost tobacco and pathogenicity in host rice. A 27-kb region of the genome of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola (RS105) was identified and sequenced, revealing 10 hrp, 9 hrc (hrp conserved), and 8 hpa (hrp-associated) genes and 7 regulatory plant-inducible promoter boxes. While the region from hpa2 to hpaB and the hrpF operon resembled the corresponding genes of other xanthomonads, the hpaB-hrpF region incorporated an hrpE3 gene that was not present in X. oryzae pv. oryzae. We found that an hrpF mutant had lost the ability to elicit the HR in tobacco and pathogenicity in adult rice plants but still caused water-soaking symptoms in rice seedlings and that Hpa1 is an HR elicitor in nonhost tobacco whose expression is controlled by an hrp regulator, HrpX. Using an Hrp phenotype complementation test, we identified a small hrp cluster containing the hrpG and hrpX regulatory genes, which is separated from the core hrp cluster. In addition, we identified a gene, prhA (plant-regulated hrp), that played a key role in the Hrp phenotype of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola but was neither in the core hrp cluster nor in the hrp regulatory cluster. A prhA mutant failed to reduce the HR in tobacco and pathogenicity in rice but caused water-soaking symptoms in rice. This is the first report that X. oryzae pv. oryzicola possesses three separate DNA regions for HR induction in nonhost tobacco and pathogenicity in host rice, which will provide a fundamental base to understand pathogenicity determinants of X. oryzae pv. oryzicola compared with those of X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
16957390	Nitrate as one of the two main nitrogen source compounds, acts also as a potent signal substance in plant growth and development. It is increasingly interesting to determine whether nitrate itself or the derived metabolites acts as a signal during the regulation. Rice seedlings were treated with different nitrogen forms (NO(-)(3) vs. NH(+)(4)) and total proteins extracted either from nitrate-fed or ammonium-fed leaves were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), and then the differentially-expressed proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF-MS or ESI-Q-TOF-MS. Twenty-six proteins were up-regulated with NO(-)(3) as the nitrogen source while 6 were up-regulated with NH(+)(4) as the nitrogen source. MS analysis, in combination with database searching, allowed for only a total of 11 proteins identified with significant probability. Among them 7 nitrate-up-regulated proteins were identified, i.e., a PSII oxygen-evolving complex protein 1 (N1), a putative CC-NBS-LRR resistance protein MLA13 (N2), a 23-kD polypeptide of PSII (N3), a translation initiation factor eIF-5A (N5), a putative PSII oxygen-evolving complex protein 2 precursor (N8), an unknown protein (N17), and the ubiquitin carrier protein UBC7 (N18). Four ammonium-up-regulated proteins were identified as the ATP synthase beta subunit (A1), the putative aminotransferase (A3), a hypothetical protein (A5), and OSJNBb0032K15.22 (A6). These results give some new insights into both the biochemical adaptation of plant to different nitrogen forms (NO(-)(3)/NH(+)(4)) and the differences in responses signaled by NO(-)(3)/NH(+)(4) in rice.
16957394	The biogenesis of chloroplast from proplastid is the prerequisite of photosynthesis. Using electron microscope, we found that rice albino mutant Osalb23 had no thylakoid inside the chloroplast, only some empty vesicles could be observed (Fig. 2). Genetics analysis showed that albino phenotype was controlled by a single recessive locus. Using map-based cloning technique, OsALB23 has been mapped to a region of 280 kb between molecular markers R2M501 and R2M502 on chromosome 2 (Fig. 4). Homologous analysis indicated that this region contained six chloroplast protein genes.
16957398	Transgenic plants with Ds element distributed over different loci on chromosome 4 (Fig. 1) and the homozygous transformants with Ac transposase gene were established through Agrobacterium-mediated approach. In this study, the plants carrying Ds element from different loci were crossed with the plant carrying Ac transposase individually. The plants of F(1) generation carrying both Ds element and Ac transposase were used to produce the F(2) populations (Table 1). Analysis of the F(2) generation by the PCR method revealed that the excision frequencies of Ds element were higher in the telomeric region of chromosome 4 than in the centromeric region (Fig. 4). These results showed that the insertion site of Ds element has strong effect on its excision frequency. We suggest that the special construct of chromosome near the insertion site of Ds element is related to the excision frequency of the Ds element.
16957838	Conjunctive use of saline/non-saline irrigation waters is generally aimed at minimizing yield losses and enhancing flexibility of cropping, without much alteration in farming operations. Recommendation of location-specific suitable conjunctive water use plans requires assessment of their long-term impacts on soil salinization/sodification and crop yield reductions. This is conventionally achieved through long-term field experiments. However such impact evaluations are site specific, expensive and time consuming. Appropriate decision support systems (DSS) can be time-efficient and cost-effective means for such long-term impact evaluations. This study demonstrates the application of one such (indigenously developed) DSS for recommending best conjunctive water use plans for a, rice-wheat growing, salt affected farmer's field in Gurgaon district of Haryana (India). Before application, the DSS was extensively validated on several farmers and controlled experimental fields in Gurgaon and Karnal districts of Haryana (India). Validation of DSS showed its potential to give realistic estimates of root zone soil salinity (with R = 0.76-0.94; AMRE = 0.03-0.06; RMSPD = 0.51-0.90); sodicity (with R = 0.99; AMRE = 0.02; RMSPD = 0.84) and relative crop yield reductions (AMRE = 0.24), under existing (local) resource management practices. Long term (10 years) root zone salt build ups and associated rice/wheat crop yield reductions, in a salt affected farmer's field, under varied conjunctive water use scenarios were evaluated with the validated DSS. It was observed that long-term applications of canal (CW) and tube well (TW) waters in a cycle and in 1:1 mixed mode, during Kharif season, predicted higher average root zone salt reductions (2-9%) and lower rice crop yield reductions (4-5%) than the existing practice of 3-CW, 3-TW, 3-CW. Besides this, long-term application of 75% CW mixed with 25% TW, during Rabi season, predicted about 17% lower average root-zone salt reductions than the cyclic applications of (1-CW, 1-TW, 2-CW) and (2-CW, 1-TW, 1-CW, i.e., existing irrigation strategy). However, average wheat crop yield reductions (16-17%) simulated under all these strategies were almost at par. In general, cyclic-conjunctive water use strategies emerged as better options than the blending modes. These results were in complete confirmation with actual long-term conjunctive water use experiments on similar soils. It was thus observed that such pre-validated tools could be efficient means for designing, local resource and target crop yield-specific, appropriate conjunctive water use plans for irrigated agricultural lands.
16959252	In vitro cultured embryogenic callus was employed as a model to investigate microRNAs (miRNAs) associated with embryogenesis and post-embryonic development. Thirty-one miRNAs including 16 novel species were identified from a large number of small RNAs which were cloned from both differentiated and undifferentiated rice embryogenic calli. Four target genes of the miRNAs were further validated. A set of the miRNAs, including miR397 and miR156, exhibited intriguing expression patterns during the transition from undifferentiated to differentiated calli. By exploiting the correlations between the differential expression patterns of these miRNAs and their targets, the regulatory roles of the miRNAs on meristem maintenance and embryogenesis were indicated.
16960168	In vitro studies suggest that extracts of black, green, and mulberry teas could interfere with carbohydrate and triacylglycerol absorption via their ability to inhibit alpha-amylase, alpha-glucosidase, sodium-glucose transporters, and pancreatic lipase. We measured breath hydrogen and 13CO2 to investigate the ability of an extract of black, green, and mulberry tea leaves to induce malabsorption of carbohydrate and triacylglycerol in healthy volunteers. In a crossover design, healthy adult volunteers randomly ingested test meals with a placebo beverage or a preparation containing an extract of black (0.1 g), green (0.1 g), and mulberry (1.0 g) teas. One test meal contained 50 g carbohydrate as white rice, 10 g butter, and 0.2 g [13C]triolein, and the beverages contained 10 g sucrose. The calorie content of the second test meal consisted entirely of lipid (30 g olive oil and 0.2 g [13C]triolein). Breath-hydrogen and 13CO2 concentrations were assessed hourly for 8 h, and symptoms were rated on a linear scale. With the carbohydrate-containing meal, the tea extract resulted in a highly significant increase in breath-hydrogen concentrations, which indicated appreciable carbohydrate malabsorption. A comparison of hydrogen excretion after the carbohydrate-containing meal with that after the nonabsorbable disaccharide lactulose suggested that the tea extract induced malabsorption of 25% of the carbohydrate. The tea extract did not cause triacylglycerol malabsorption or any significant increase in symptoms. This study provides the basis for additional experiments to determine whether the tea extract has clinical utility for the treatment of obesity or diabetes.
16960392	We characterized a new cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (P450), CYP724B2, from tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). CYP724B2 showed 42% and 62% amino acid sequence identity with Arabidopsis DWARF4/CYP90B1 and rice DWARF11/CYP724B1 respectively. Functional assay of CYP724B2 heterologously expressed in insect cells revealed that CYP724B2 catalyzes C-22 hydroxylation of campesterol, indicating that CYP724B2 is a C-22 hydroxylase. We also isolated a tomato CYP90B homolog (CYP90B3) and found that CYP90B3 is a C-22 hydroxylase as well. CYP724B2 and CYP90B3 showed substrate specificities similar to each other toward the biosynthetic intermediate compounds from campesterol to campestanol. Campesterol was the best substrate, and (24R)-ergost-4-en-3-one was also metabolized to the C-22 hydroxylated product to some extent. On the other hand, the P450s catalyzed C-22 hydroxylation of (24R)-5alpha-ergostan-3-one and campestanol at a trace level, indicating that the compounds after C-5alpha reduction are poor substrates of CYP724B2 and CYP90B3. In addition, cholesterol (C27 sterol) and sitosterol (C29 sterol) were also converted to C-22 hydroxylated products by the P450s. Furthermore, CYP724B2 and CYP90B3 genes were ubiquitously expressed, and their transcript levels were down-regulated by the exogenous application of brassinolide. These findings strongly suggest that CYP724B2 and CYP90B3 function in the early C-22 hydroxylation steps of brassinosteroid biosynthetic pathway in tomato.
16961326	The gelatinization of waxy rice, regular rice, and potato starch suspensions (66% w/w moisture) was investigated by real-time small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) and wide-angle X-ray diffraction (WAXD) during heating and by fast ramp differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). The high-angle tail of the SAXS patterns suggested the transition from surface to mass fractal structures in the DSC gelatinization range. Amylose plays a major role in determining the dimensions of the self-similar structures that develop during this process as the characteristic power-law scattering behavior extends to lower scattering angles for regular than for waxy starches. Crystallinity of A-type starches is lost in the temperature region roughly corresponding to the DSC gelatinization range. At the end of the gelatinization endotherm, the B-type potato starch showed residual crystallinity (WAXD), while SAXS-patterns exhibited features of remaining lamellar stacks. Results indicate that the melting of amylopectin crystallites during gelatinization is accompanied by the (exothermic) formation of amorphous networks.
16961734	Several approaches have recently been adopted to improve Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice, both to generate the large number of T-DNA insertion plants needed for functional analysis of the rice genome, and for production of rice with additional agronomical value. However, about 3 months of in vitro culture is still required for isolation of transgenic rice plants. Here, we report the competency of scutellum tissue from 1-day pre-cultured seeds for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Furthermore, early infection of rice seeds with Agrobacterium enhanced efficient selection of transformed calli. Using our system, we successfully regenerated transgenic rice plantlets within a month of the start of the aseptic culture of mature seeds. Our new system should reduce the somaclonal variation accompanying prolonged culture of rice cells in the dedifferentiated state and facilitate the molecular breeding of rice.
16962320	A mixture of rice straw (80%) and chicken manure (20%) was pretreated and fermented to carboxylic acids by using a mixed culture of marine mesophilic microorganisms. Two sets of four fermentors, built from PVC pipes, were used for both biomass pretreatment and fermentation. Four 1L fermentors (F1-F4) were arranged in series, where liquid fermentation products were transferred from one fermentor to the other, to form a train. A liquid volume of 10mL and 15mL were transferred every four days for Trains A and B, respectively. The maximum total acid concentration for F1 in Train A was 34.2g/L and the maximum acid concentration in F2-F4 was approximately 44g/L. The maximum total acid concentration in F1 in Train B was 30.5g/L and the maximum acid concentration in F2-F4 was approximately 48g/L. The conversion in each of the fermentors in Train A varied from 0.821 to 0.879g VS digested/g VS fed and the yield was in the range 0.489-0.609g total acids/g VS fed. The conversion and yield in Train B were 0.741-0.914g VS digested/g VS fed and 0.563-0.669g total acids/g VS fed, respectively. The continuum particle distribution model (CPDM) predicted acid concentrations and retention times in the fixed-bed fermentation system with R(2) of 0.67-0.84 in Trains A and B.
16963350	The objective of this study was to compare the effects on blood pressure of predominantly insoluble fiber (whole wheat and brown rice) and soluble fiber (barley) in a whole-grain diet. Subjects (seven men, nine premenopausal women, and nine postmenopausal women) consumed a controlled Step I diet for 2 weeks; then about 20% of energy was replaced with whole wheat/brown rice, barley, or half wheat-rice/half barley, for 5 weeks each. Blood pressure was determined weekly and weight daily before breakfast. Urinary excretions of minerals that might affect blood pressure and urea nitrogen were determined each period. Systolic pressure was lower after the wheat/rice and half-and-half diets. Diastolic and mean arterial pressures were reduced by all whole-grain diets. No differences were observed in urinary measurements. In a healthful diet, increasing whole-grain foods, whether high in soluble or insoluble fiber, can reduce blood pressure and may help to control weight.
16963705	Retrotransposons are the main components of eukaryotic genomes, representing up to 80% of some large plant genomes. These mobile elements transpose via a "copy and paste" mechanism, thus increasing their copy number while active. Their accumulation is now accepted as the main factor of genome size increase in higher eukaryotes, besides polyploidy. However, the dynamics of this process are poorly understood. In this study, we show that Oryza australiensis, a wild relative of the Asian cultivated rice O. sativa, has undergone recent bursts of three LTR-retrotransposon families. This genome has accumulated more than 90,000 retrotransposon copies during the last three million years, leading to a rapid twofold increase of its size. In addition, phenetic analyses of these retrotransposons clearly confirm that the genomic bursts occurred posterior to the radiation of the species. This provides direct evidence of retrotransposon-mediated variation of genome size within a plant genus.
16963777	Eukaryotic pathogens of humans often evade the immune system by switching the expression of surface proteins encoded by subtelomeric gene families. To determine if plant pathogenic fungi use a similar mechanism to avoid host defenses, we sequenced the 14 chromosome ends of the rice blast pathogen, Magnaporthe oryzae. One telomere is directly joined to ribosomal RNA-encoding genes, at the end of the approximately 2 Mb rDNA array. Two are attached to chromosome-unique sequences, and the remainder adjoin a distinct subtelomere region, consisting of a telomere-linked RecQ-helicase (TLH) gene flanked by several blocks of tandem repeats. Unlike other microbes, M.oryzae exhibits very little gene amplification in the subtelomere regions-out of 261 predicted genes found within 100 kb of the telomeres, only four were present at more than one chromosome end. Therefore, it seems unlikely that M.oryzae uses switching mechanisms to evade host defenses. Instead, the M.oryzae telomeres have undergone frequent terminal truncation, and there is evidence of extensive ectopic recombination among transposons in these regions. We propose that the M.oryzae chromosome termini play more subtle roles in host adaptation by promoting the loss of terminally-positioned genes that tend to trigger host defenses.
16964369	An intensified esterification process was operated by circulating 10 l of reaction mixtures, consisting of palm oil fatty acid distillate (PFAD) and glycerol in hexane, through a packed-bed reactor (PBR) filled with 10 kg of delipidated rice bran lipase (RBL). The influence of the process parameters, such as reaction temperature and type of water-removal agent, on the performance of this intensified esterification process were investigated. The highest degree of esterification (61%) was achieved at a reaction temperature of 65 masculineC, using silica gels as the water-removal agent. Thin-layer chromatography (TLC) analysis showed that the major composition of the esterified product was diacylglycerol.
16964592	From paddy field observations in 2002 and 2004, fenoxaprop-P-ethyl resistance in Chinese sprangletop (Leptochloa chinensis (L.) Nees) has been studied using information collected from 11 sites in the Saphan-Sung district of Bangkok, Thailand. The resistant Chinese sprangletop was found in nine rice fields, whereas the susceptible Chinese sprangletop was found in only two rice fields. In greenhouse experiments, both fenoxaprop-P-ethyl-resistant and susceptible Chinese sprangletop from the same location were investigated for 50% growth reduction based on phytotoxicity, plant height and fresh and dry weight. The resistant Chinese sprangletop showed apparent resistance at 14-21 days after herbicide application at a rate of 21.1-337.6 g AI ha(-1). The resistance index of resistant Chinese sprangletop was 10-25 times higher than that of the susceptible Chinese sprangletop. In addition, Chinese sprangletop did not exhibit multiple resistance to oxadiazon, propanil and quinclorac. According to acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase) assays, the level of ACCase specific activity in the resistant Chinese sprangletop was significantly higher than that in the susceptible Chinese sprangletop. Similarly, the ACCase activity of the resistant Chinese sprangletop was 10 times less sensitive to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl than that of the susceptible Chinese sprangletop, based on the I50 values. The present study of the mechanism responsible for resistance in the biotypes investigated indicated that there was a close association between the concentration-response at the whole-plant level and ACCase sensitivity to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl, and resistance to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl was conferred by a modified ACCase at the target site, as suggested by higher specific activity and less sensitivity to the herbicide.
16964941	This paper studied the dynamics of microbial flora and enzyme activity in the rhizosphere of allelopathic rice PI312777 (PI) and non-allelopathic rice Lemont (LE) at the growth stage of 3 - 7 leaves. The results showed that in the rhizosphere of PI, the amounts of bacteria, actinomycetes and azotobacter were 11.2% - 28.3%, 40% - 78.6% and 111.5% - 173.9%, respectively, while that of fungi was lower, with the maximum being 25.5% of that in the rhizosphere of LE, suggesting that allelopathic rice PI promoted the growth of bacteria, actinomycetes and azotobacter, but inhibited that of fungi. Further analysis on the physiological groups of microbial flora showed that PI favored the growth of ammonifier, aerobic azotobacter, aerobic cellulose - decomposer, sulphate - reducer, nitrite - bacteria and nitrate - bacteria, among which, ammonifier and aerobic azotobacter increased by 53.7% and 57.6%, respectively, while inhibited the growth of desulphate bacteria and denitrifyier. Moreover, PI increased the activities of urease, phosphatase and sucrase, but decreased the catalase activity in its rhizosphere.
16966360	The recognition of specific RNA sequences and structures by proteins is critical to our understanding of RNA processing, gene expression and viral replication. The diversity of RNA structures suggests that RNA recognition is substantially different than that of DNA. The atomic coordinates of 41 protein-RNA complexes have been used to probe composite nucleoside binding pockets that form the structural and chemical underpinnings of base recognition. Composite nucleoside binding pockets were constructed using three-dimensional superpositions of each RNA nucleoside. Unlike protein-DNA interactions which are dominated by accessibility, RNA recognition frequently occurs in non-canonical and single-strand-like structures that allow interactions to occur from a much wider set of geometries and make fuller use of unique base shapes and hydrogen-bonding ability. By constructing composites that include all van der Waals, hydrogen-bonding, stacking and general non-polar interactions made to a particular nucleoside, the strategies employed are made readily visible. Protein-RNA interactions can result in the formation of a glove-like tight binding pocket around RNA bases, but the size, shape and non-polar binding patterns differ between specific RNA bases. We show that adenine can be distinguished from guanine based on the size and shape of the binding pocket and steric exclusion of the guanine N2 exocyclic amino group. The unique shape and hydrogen-bonding pattern for each RNA base allow proteins to make specific interactions through a very small number of contacts, as few as two in some cases. The program ENTANGLE is available from http://www.bioc.rice.edu/~shamoo
16967767	The enzyme activities of Aspergillus oryzae on koji (malted rice) and Neurospora intermedia on S-oncom and O-oncom (fermented soybeans and okara with N. intermedia, respectively) were compared. The major enzymes of N. intermedia were different from those of A. oryzae, and the enzyme activities of O-oncom were extremely higher than those of S-oncom. S5-Miso, S10-miso and S9O1-miso replacing 50% or 100% of steamed soybeans with S-oncom or a 9 : 1 mixture of S-oncom and O-oncom, respectively, were prepared to supplement the enzyme action of koji. The chemical components of those miso were almost the same as those of soybean-miso (C-miso). The miso soups prepared with S5-miso, S10-miso and S9O1-miso were all considered to be more palatable and pleasant-tasting than the soup prepared with C-miso, and their flavor was preferred in the same degree as that of T5-miso using 50% tempeh, the soybeans fermented with Rhizopus oligosporus. Scavenging activities of DPPH and O2- and antimutagenicity of the 70% ethanol extract from those miso were higher than those of hot-water extract, and the activities of S9O1-miso were the highest. The isoflavone-aglycons and brownish color of S9O1-miso were higher than those of C-miso. The higher contents of isoflavone-aglycons and melanoidines of S9O1-miso might contribute to their higher antioxidant activity and antimutagenicity. From these results, S9O1-miso has potential as a healthier alternative to C-miso in terms of taste and health benefits.
16968085	The fates of clomazone [2-(2-chlorophenyl)methyl-4,4-dimethyl-3-isoxazolidinone], molinate (S-ethyl hexahydro-1-H-azepine-1-carbothioate), and thiobencarb {S-[(4-chlorophenyl)methyl]diethylcarbamothioate} applied to rice were studied at two locations in New South Wales (Australia). Rates of dissipation (DT50) from floodwaters and soils were measured. Dissipation of the three herbicides from water and soil can be best explained by a first-order decay process. DT(50) values for clomazone, molinate, and thiobencarb were 7.2, 5.1, and 3.5 days, respectively, in water and 14.6, 23.9, and >46 days, respectively, in surface soil. Maximum measured concentrations of clomazone, molinate, and thiobencarb in floodwaters were 202, 1042, and 148 microg/L, respectively, taking 18.4, 26.4, and 21.4 days to dissipate to concentrations set to protect aquatic ecosystems. A hazard assessment identified clomazone as presenting a low environmental hazard while molinate and thiobencarb presented a medium environmental hazard when used at registered field rates.
16968881	Studies on MADS-box genes in Arabidopsis and other higher eudicotyledonous flowering plants have shown that they are key regulators of flower development. Since Arabidopsis and monocotyledonous rice are distantly related plant species it is interesting to investigate whether the floral organ identity factors have been conserved in their functions, and if not, to understand the differences. Arabidopsis and rice are very suitable for these studies since they are both regarded as models for plant functional genomics. Both their genomes are sequenced and tools are available for the analysis of gene function. These developments have accelerated experiments and increased our knowledge on rice gene function. Therefore it is the right moment to perform a comparative analysis on MADS-box factors controlling floral organ identity as reported in this review.
16969377	Food grains such as green gram, chickpea and finger millet are often subjected to traditional processing involving germination and fermentation. This study was designed to assess the effect of germination of these grains on the bioaccessibility of zinc and iron. The effect of fermentation of a cereal-pulse combination as encountered in the preparation of breakfast dishes - idli, dosa and dhokla - on the same was also evaluated. Bioaccessibility measurement was made employing an in vitro simulated digestion method. Zinc bioaccessibility was significantly decreased by germination (48 h) of finger millet (38%) and green gram (44%), while iron bioaccessibility was increased by 62% (green gram), 39% (chickpea) and 20% (finger millet), concomitant with a reduction in tannin content. A fermented batter of rice+black gram - 2:1 (idli) and 3:1 (dosa) - had higher bioaccessibility values for zinc (71 and 50%, respectively), while iron bioaccessibility values were increased in these cases of fermentation to an even greater extent, namely 277 and 127%, respectively. Zinc and iron bioaccessibility was not improved by fermentation of the combination of chickpea, green gram, black gram and rice (1:1:0.5:0.5; dhokla). A fermentation of cereal-legume combinations of idli and dosa batter significantly reduced both phytate and tannin, while in the case of dhokla batter there was a continued significant presence of phytate associated with additional legumes - chickpea and green gram. Germination of food grains improved the bioaccessibility of iron but not that of zinc. Fermentation of a batter of cereal-pulse combination in the preparation of idli and dosa enhanced the bioaccessibility of both zinc and iron, but not that of the combination used for the preparation of dhokla.
16970618	The spikelet identity gene "fzp" (frizzy panicle) is required for transformation of the floral meristems to inflorescent shoots. In fzp mutants, spikelets are replaced by branches and spikelet meristems produce massive numbers of branch meristems. We have isolated and characterized a new fzp mutant derived from anther culture lines in rice and designated as fzp-9(t). The fzp-9(t) mutant showed retarded growth habit and developed fewer tillers than those of the wild-type plant. The primary and secondary rachis branches of fzp-9(t) appeared to be normal, but higher-order branches formed continuous bract-like structures without developing spikelets. The genetic segregation of fzp-9(t) showed a good fit to the expected ratio of 3: 1. The sequence analysis of fzp-9(t) revealed that there is a single nucleotide base change upstream of the ERF (ethylene-responsive element-binding factor) domain compare to wild-type plant. The mutation point of fzp-9(t) (W66G) was one of the six amino acids of the ERF domain that contributed to GCC box-specific binding. The premature formation of a stop codon at the beginning of the ERF domain might cause a non-functional product.
16970933	Tumor metastasis is the most important cause of cancer death and various treatment strategies have targeted on preventing the occurrence of metastasis. Anthocyanins are natural colorants belonging to the flavonoid family, and are wildly used for their antioxidant properties. Here, we provided molecular evidence associated with the anti-metastatic effects of peonidin 3-glucoside and cyanidin 3-glucoside, major anthocyanins extracted from black rice (Oryza sativa L. indica), by showing a marked inhibition on the invasion and motility of SKHep-1 cells. This effect was associated with a reduced expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA). Peonidin 3-glucoside and cyanidin 3-glucoside also exerted an inhibitory effect on the DNA binding activity and the nuclear translocation of AP-1. Furthermore, these compounds also exerted an inhibitory effect of cell invasion on various cancer cells (SCC-4, Huh-7, and HeLa). Finally, anthocyanins from O. sativa L. indica (OAs) were evidenced by its inhibition on the growth of SKHep-1 cells in vivo.
16971692	Many proteins synthesized in the cytosol are delivered to their appropriate compartments in the cell by specific targeting signals. Here, we provide new insight into the generation of the chloroplast-targeting signal (called the transit peptide) in rice. First, we identified the mitochondrial ribosomal protein L13 (mt rpl13) gene on chromosome 5. Downstream of the gene, we identified a DNA fragment of 266 bp: a segment within a duplication of mt rpl13. The duplicated region was transcribed and found to encode an open reading frame (ORF) of 160 amino acids (aa) (orf160). The orf160 gene comprises C-terminal 60 aa derived from the mt rpl13 gene and N-terminal 100 aa derived from another duplicated fragment of a pentatricopeptide repeat (ppr)564 gene that encodes 564 aa with ppr motifs on chromosome 1. Examination of the localization of the ORF160 protein tagged with green fluorescent protein (GFP) showed that it is targeted to the chloroplasts. As such, ORF160 clearly contains a transit peptide. Interestingly, this was translated from the alternative reading frame of the duplicated fragment of ppr564. To confirm this, the reading frame of the ppr564 gene was shifted according to that of the orf160 gene, and the frameshifted ppr564 sequence was fused to the gene for GFP. The expressed GFP-fused protein was also located in the chloroplasts. These results provide clear evidence for the generation of the transit peptide through duplication and subsequent frameshifting of a reading frame of a preexisting protein gene. We also demonstrate the importance of sequence redundancy and frameshift mutation in this evolutionary process.
16974070	To analyze the biological effects of the space environment, we flew nine lines of rice seeds on the Chinese 20(th) recoverable satellite for a duration of 18 days. The same lines of seeds were also irradiated to low doses (2.0 mGy) of Carbon, or Neon or Iron ions (with different LET value of 13.3 keV/microm, 31 keV/microm and 500 keV/microm respectively) at National Institute of Radiological Sciences in Chiba, Japan. The total number of mitotic cells and chromosomal aberrations were analyzed. The mitotic index (MI) and the frequency of chromosomal aberration were evaluated in order to compare the cytogenetic damages from spaceflight and from exposure to similar doses of charged particle on the ground. The results of the present study show that the space environment and heavy energy ion can alter cell growth, and induce various chromosome aberrations including micronuclei, chromosomal bridges, fragments and laggards. With all the lines combined, the frequency of chromosome aberrations and MI in seeds flown in space are the highest. The effectiveness of cytogenetic damage from spaceflight (SP) and the heavy ion irradiations is SP > Fe > Ne > C.
1697595	Oryzacystatin (oryzacystatin-I) is a proteinaceous cysteine proteinase inhibitor (cystatin) in rice seeds and is the first well defined cystatin of plant origin. In this study we isolated cDNA clones for a new type of cystatin (oryzacystatin-II) in rice seeds by screening with the oryzacystatin-I cDNA probe. The newly isolated cDNA clone encodes 107 amino acid residues whose sequence is similar to that of oryzacystatin-I (approximately 55% of identity). These oryzacystatins have no disulfide bonds, and so could be classified as family-I cystatins; however, the amino acid sequences resemble those of family-II members more than family-I members. Oryzacystatin-I and -II are remarkably distinct in two respects: 1) their specificities against cysteine proteinases; and 2) the expression patterns of their mRNAs in the ripening stage of rice seeds. Oryzacystatin-I inhibits papain more effectively (Ki 3.0 x 10(-8) M) than cathepsin H (Ki 0.79 x 10(-6) M), while oryzacystatin-II inhibits cathepsin H (Ki 1.0 x 10(-8) M) better than papain (Ki 0.83 x 10(-6) M). The mRNA for oryzacystatin-I is expressed maximally at 2 weeks after flowering and is not detected in mature seeds, whereas the mRNA for oryzacystatin-II is constantly expressed throughout the maturation stages and is clearly detected in mature seeds. Western blotting analysis using antibody to oryzacystatin-II showed that, as is the case with oryzacystatin-I, oryzacystatin-II occurs in mature rice seeds. Thus, these two oryzacystatin species are believed to be involved in the regulation of proteolysis caused by different proteinases.
16977424	By a differential cDNA screening technique, we have isolated a dehydration-inducible gene (designated OSRK1) that encodes a 41.8 kD protein kinase of SnRK2 family from Oryza sativa. The OSRK1 transcript level was undetectable in vegetative tissues, but significantly increased by hyperosmotic stress and Abscisic acid (ABA). To determine its biochemical properties, we expressed and isolated OSRK1 and its mutants as glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins in Escherichia coli. In vitro kinase assay showed that OSRK1 can phosphorylate itself and generic substrates as well. Interestingly, OSRK1 showed strong substrate preference for rice bZIP transcription factors and uncommon cofactor requirement for Mn(2+) over Mg(2+). By deletion of C-terminus 73 amino acids or mutations of Ser-158 and Thr-159 to aspartic acids (Asp) in the activation loop, the activity of OSRK1 was dramatically decreased. OSRK1 can transphosphorylate the inactive deletion protein. A rice family of abscisic acid-responsive element (ABRE) binding factor, OREB1 was phosphorylated in vitro by OSRK1 at multiple sites of different functional domains. MALDI-TOF analysis identified a phosphorylation site at Ser44 of OREB1 and mutation of the residue greatly decreased the substrate specificity for OSRK1. The recognition motif for OSRK1, RQSS is highly similar to the consensus substrate sequence of AMPK/SNF1 kinase family. We further showed that OSRK1 interacts with OREB1 in a yeast two-hybrid system and co-localized to nuclei by transient expression analysis of GFP-fused protein in onion epidermis. Finally, ectopic expression of OSRK1 in transgenic tobacco resulted in a reduced sensitivity to ABA in seed germination and root elongation. These findings suggest that OSRK1 is associated with ABA signaling, possibly through the phosphorylation of ABF family in vivo. The interaction between SnRK2 family kinases and ABF transcription factors may constitute an important part of cross-talk mechanism in the stress signaling networks in plants.
16977520
16978873	A systematic method to automatically estimate the vibrational frequency sets of linear peptide and protein ions with any amino acid sequence, which is needed in Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) calculations for dissociation of these ions, has been developed. The method starts from the frequencies of free amino acids calculated quantum chemically at the DFT/B3LYP/6-31G** level. Some of these were systematically eliminated to get fictitious sets of frequencies for each amino acid at the C-terminus, N-terminus, and inside the chain. By collecting these sets as needed for a specified amino acid sequence and adding vibrations appearing upon peptide bond formation and protonation, a complete set of vibrational frequencies was obtained. Other conditions for RRKM calculations have also been systematically specified. RRKM calculations performed under various conditions have shown that the present method can be useful for an order of magnitude estimation of a statistical rate constant even at low internal energy region. The fact that arbitrariness involved in constructing an entire frequency set simply through spectral correlation can be avoided, and that any protein ion can be handled systematically and rapidly once its sequence and the number of protons attached are specified, are the main advantages of the present method.
16979805	A field experiment located in TaiHu Lake Basin in China was conducted, by application of superphosphate or a mixture of superphosphate with manure, to elucidate the interception of P export during a typical rice growing season through 'zero-drainage water management' combined with sound irrigation, rainfall forecasting and field drying. P concentrations in floodwater rapidly declined before the first event of field drying, and subsequently tended to return to the background levels. Before the first field drying TPP was the predominant P form in floodwater on fields with no P input, DRP on plots that received superphosphate only, and DOP on plots treated with the mixture of superphosphate and manure. Thereafter TPP became the major form. No P export was found from the paddy fields, but a retention of 0.65kgha(-1), mainly due to soil P sorption. The results recommend the zero-drainage water management for full-scale areas for minimizing P export.
16980129	Photosynthesis of carbohydrate is the primary source of grain yield in rice (Oryza sativa L.). It is important to genetically analyze the morphological and the physiological characteristics of functional leaves, especially flag leaf, in rice improvement. In this study, a recombinant inbred population derived from a cross between an indica (O. sativa L. ssp. indica) cultivar and a japonica (O. sativa L. ssp. japonica) cultivar was employed to map quantitative traits loci (QTLs) for the morphological (i.e., leaf length, width, and area) and physiological (i.e., leaf color rating and stay-green) characteristics of flag leaf and their relationships with yield and yield traits in 2003 and 2004. A total of 17 QTLs for morphological traits (flag leaf length, width, and area), 6 QTLs for degree of greenness and 14 QTLs for stay-green-related traits (retention-degrees of greenness, relative retention of greenness, and retention of the green area) were resolved, and 10 QTLs were commonly detected in both the years. Correlation analysis revealed that flag leaf area increased grain yield by increasing spikelet number per panicle. However, the physiological traits including degree of greenness and stay-green traits were not or negatively correlated to grain yield and yield traits, which may arise from the negative relation between degree of greenness and flag leaf size and the partial sterility occurred in a fraction of the lines in this population. The region RM255-RM349 on chromosome 4 controlled the three leaf morphological traits simultaneously and explained a large part of variation, which was very useful for genetic improvement of grain yield. The region RM422-RM565 on chromosome 3 was associated with the three stay-green traits simultaneously, and the use of this region in genetic improvement of grain yield needs to be assessed by constructing near-isogenic lines.
16980130	Histone H3 is one of the four histones, along with H2A, H2B, and H4, which form the eukaryotic nucleosome octamer core. In this study, a new gene RH3.2A encoding an H3.2-type histone H3 protein from rice (Oryza sativa L.) was reported. RH3.2A was cloned through RT-PCR from salt-treated rice seedlings. This gene encoded a protein of 136 amino acid residues that were similar to some plant histone H3 proteins reported previously. However, the cDNA sequence of RH3.2A and other rice H3 genes were different. Alignment of RH3.2A encoding protein with other plant histone H3 proteins revealed that three amino acid residues (32, 88, and 91) were markedly different between H3.1-type and H3.2-type proteins. The mRNA expression analysis of RH3.2A revealed that RH3.2A gene was upregulated by salt stress in rice roots and ABA treatment in seedlings. The potential role of RH3.2A during salt stress was discussed.
16980566	It is widely accepted that gene duplication is a primary source of genetic novelty. However, the evolutionary fate of duplicated genes remains largely unresolved. The classical Ohno's Duplication-Retention-Non/Neofunctionalization theory, and the recently proposed alternatives such as subfunctionalization or duplication-degeneration-complementation, and subneofunctionalization, each can explain one or more aspects of gene fate after duplication. Duplicated genes are also affected by epigenetic changes. We constructed a phylogenetic tree using Dof (DNA binding with one finger) protein sequences from poplar (Populus trichocarpa) Torr. & Gray ex Brayshaw, Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and rice (Oryza sativa). From the phylogenetic tree, we identified 27 pairs of paralogous Dof genes in the terminal nodes. Analysis of protein motif structure of the Dof paralogs and their ancestors revealed six different gene fates after gene duplication. Differential protein methylation was revealed between a pair of duplicated poplar Dof genes, which have identical motif structure and similar expression pattern, indicating that epigenetics is involved in evolution. Analysis of reverse transcription-PCR, massively parallel signature sequencing, and microarray data revealed that the paralogs differ in expression pattern. Furthermore, analysis of nonsynonymous and synonymous substitution rates indicated that divergence of the duplicated genes was driven by positive selection. About one-half of the motifs in Dof proteins were shared by non-Dof proteins in the three plants species, indicating that motif co-option may be one of the forces driving gene diversification. We provided evidence that the Ohno's Duplication-Retention-Non/Neofunctionalization, subfunctionalization/duplication-degeneration-complementation, and subneofunctionalization hypotheses are complementary with, not alternative to, each other.
16980567	We have previously demonstrated that vacuolar sorting receptor (VSR) proteins are concentrated on prevacuolar compartments (PVCs) in plant cells. PVCs in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells are multivesicular bodies (MVBs) as defined by VSR proteins and the BP-80 reporter, where the transmembrane domain (TMD) and cytoplasmic tail (CT) sequences of BP-80 are sufficient and specific for correct targeting of the reporter to PVCs. The genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains seven VSR proteins, but little is known about their individual subcellular localization and function. Here, we study the subcellular localization of the seven Arabidopsis VSR proteins (AtVSR1-7) based on the previously proven hypothesis that the TMD and CT sequences correctly target individual VSR to its final destination in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. Toward this goal, we have generated seven chimeric constructs containing signal peptide (sp) linked to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and TMD/CT sequences (sp-GFP-TMD/CT) of the seven individual AtVSR. Transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing these seven sp-GFP-TMD-CT fusions all exhibited typical punctate signals colocalizing with VSR proteins by confocal immunofluorescence. In addition, wortmannin caused the GFP-marked prevacuolar organelles to form small vacuoles, and VSR antibodies labeled these enlarged MVBs in transgenic BY-2 cells. Wortmannin also caused VSR-marked PVCs to vacuolate in other cell types, including Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), pea (Pisum sativum), and mung bean (Vigna radiata). Therefore, the seven AtVSRs are localized to MVBs in tobacco BY-2 cells, and wortmannin-induced vacuolation of PVCs is a general response in plants.
16982522	This survey examined 30 samples of rice (n = 10), maize (n = 10) and peanuts (n = 10) from Cte d'Ivoire for aflatoxin B1, fumonisin B1 and zearalenone using immunoassays, and ochratoxin A using a validated HPLC method with fluorescence detection. In Cte d'Ivoire, as in other countries, several mycotoxins are present in the same commodities. These mycotoxins are from different structural families: aflatoxin B1, fumonisin B1, zearalenone and ochratoxin A, normally produced by fungal species from Aspergillus, Penicillium and Fusarium genera. Some samples contained four mycotoxins (86%). Four peanuts samples did not show ochratoxin A (14%), whereas they contained aflatoxin B1 concentrations above the EU regulatory limits. Concentrations of ochratoxin A, zearalenone and fumonisin B1 were low and may not cause problems per se; however, fears remain that the tolerable daily intake may be exceeded due to eating habits and synergistic effects could be important with the combination of several mycotoxins. Investigations in this direction are underway, together with isolation and characterization of the fungal species involved.
16986517	To estimate the likelihood of horizontal gene transfer from transgenic rice to bacteria of the food chain and human gut, the stability of s86 transgenic rice hpt gene in different food matrices and under varying food-processing conditions was studied. Degradation of DNA was monitored by fragment -multiplex polymerase chain reaction. Integrity of hpt gene in various food samples was tested. A PCR system for the hpt gene of genetically modified rice has been established to detect fragments ranging between 236bp and 910bp. Detection of hpt and rbcl gene fragments was carried out in various food-processed samples by this PCR system. The data showed that the fragments up to 500 bp were detected in rice and congee, while the fragment length more than 236bp was not detected in crispy rice and popcorn-like rice. These results suggested that there are significant differences in DNA degradation by different food-processing methods. The likelihood of the large hpt gene fragments transfer from transgenic rice processed food to bacteria is reduced by food process.
16987950	In Arabidopsis, stem cell homeostasis in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) is controlled by a feedback loop between WUS and CLV functions. We have identified WUS orthologues in maize and rice by a detailed phylogenetic analysis of the WOX gene family and subsequent cloning. A single WUS orthologue is present in the rice genome (OsWUS), whereas the allotetraploid maize genome contains 2 WUS paralogues (ZmWUS1 and ZmWUS2). None of the isolated grass WUS orthologues displays an organizing center-type expression pattern in the vegetative SAM as in Arabidopsis. In contrast, the grass-specific expression patterns relate to the specification of new phytomers consistent with the transcriptional expression patterns of TD1 and FON1 (CLV1 orthologues of maize and rice, respectively). Moreover, the grass WUS and CLV1 orthologues are coexpressed in all reproductive meristems, where fasciation and supernumerary floral organs occur in td1 or fon1 loss-of-function mutants. The expression patterns of WUS orthologues in both grass species compared with those of dicots imply that major changes in WUS function, which are correlated with changes in CLV1 signaling, have occurred during angiosperm evolution and raise doubts about the uniqueness of the WUS/CLV antagonism in the maintenance of the shoot stem cell niche in grasses.
16987952	Satellite DNA is a major component of centromeric heterochromatin in most multicellular eukaryotes, where it is typically organized into megabase-sized tandem arrays. It has recently been demonstrated that small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) processed from centromeric satellite repeats can be involved in epigenetic chromatin modifications which appear to underpin centromere function. However, the structural organization and evolution of the centromeric satellite DNA is still poorly understood. We analyzed the centromeric satellite repeat arrays from rice chromosomes 1 and 8 and identified higher order structures and local homogenization of the CentO repeats in these 2 centromeres. We also cloned the CentO repeats from the CENH3-associated nucleosomes by a chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-based method. Sequence variability analysis of the ChIPed CentO repeats revealed a single variable domain within the repeat. We detected transcripts derived from both strands of the CentO repeats. The CentO transcripts are processed into siRNA, suggesting a potential role of this satellite repeat family in epigenetic chromatin modification.
16988346	Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice is now used in many laboratories worldwide. Several protocols have been developed and fine-tuned for particular genotypes, including commercial genotypes, making use of either mature seeds or immature embryos as target tissue for Agrobacterium infection. In this chapter, we describe a rapid and user-friendly protocol based on mature seeds that can deliver transgenic rice plant-lets within 2 mo. The protocol described is based on the use of the nptII selectable marker gene. The tissue culture steps rely on Agrobacterium infection of whole young seedlings and on the induction and proliferation of highly embryogenic tissue. Importantly, we have validated the robustness and reliability of this protocol at a high-throughput scale for several japonica genotypes. We also provide some key features that can be further explored for the fine-tuning of this transformation protocol for any other genotype with a particular emphasis on the importance of tissue handling and subculture sequence.
16990289	Recent completion of the sequencing of the rice genome has revealed that it contains >40% repetitive sequences, most of which are related to inactive transposable elements. During the molecular analysis of the floral organ number 1/multiple pistil 2 (fon1/mp2) mutant, we identified an active transposable element dTok0 that was inserted at the kinase domain of FON1, a homolog of CLAVATA1. Insertion of the element into FON1 generated an 8 bp duplication of its target sites, which is one of the major characteristics of the hAT family of transposons. The dTok0 element was actively transposed out of the FON1 gene, leaving 5-8 bp footprints. Reinsertion into a new location was observed at a low frequency. Analysis of the genome sequence showed that the rice cultivar 'Nipponbare' contains 25 copies of dTok elements; similar numbers were present in all the Oryza species examined. Because dTok0 does not encode a transposase, enzyme activity should be provided in trans. We identified a putative autonomous transposon, Tok1 that contains an intact open reading frame of the Ac-like transposase.
16990291	We isolated a pollen-preferential gene, RICE IMMATURE POLLEN 1 (RIP1), from a T-DNA insertional population of japonica rice that was trapped by a promoterless beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) analyses confirmed that the RIP1 transcript was abundant at the late stages of pollen development. Transgenic plants carrying a T-DNA insertion in the RIP1 gene displayed the phenotype of segregation distortion of the mutated rip1 gene. Moreover, rip1/rip1 homozygous progeny were not present. Reciprocal crosses between Rip1/rip1 heterozygous plants and the wild type showed that the rip1 allele could not be transmitted through the male. Microscopic analysis demonstrated that development in the rip1 pollen was delayed, starting at the early vacuolated stage. Close examination of that pollen by transmission electron microscopy also showed delayed formation of starch granules and the intine layer. In addition, development of the mitochondria, Golgi apparatus, lipid bodies, plastids and endoplasmic reticulum was deferred in the mutant pollen. Under in vitro conditions, germination of this mutant pollen did not occur, whereas the rate for wild-type pollen was >90%. These results indicate that RIP1 is necessary for pollen maturation and germination. This gene encodes a protein that shares significant homology with a group of proteins containing five WD40 repeat sequences. The green fluorescent protein (GFP)-RIP1 fusion protein is localized to the nucleus. Therefore, RIP1 is probably a nuclear protein that may form a functional complex with other proteins and carry out essential cellular and developmental roles during the late stage of pollen formation.
16990520
16991195	Proteomics is progressing at an unprecedented pace, as can be exemplified by the progress in model organisms such as yeast, bacteria, and mammals. Proteomics research in plants, however, has not progressed at the same pace. Unscrambling of the genome sequences of the dicotyledoneous Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) and monocotyledoneous rice (Oryza sativa L.) plant species, respectively, has made them accessible reference organisms to study plant proteomics. Study of these two reference plants is expected to unravel the mystery of plant biology. Rice, a critically important food crop on the earth, has been termed a "cornerstone" and the "Rosetta stone" for functional genomics of cereal crops. Here, we look at the progress in unraveling rice proteomes and present the facts, challenges, and vision. The text is divided into two major parts: the first part presents the facts and the second part discusses the challenges and vision. The facts include the technology and its use in developing proteomes, which have been critically and constructively reviewed. The challenges and vision deal with the establishment of technologies to exhaustively investigate the protein components of a proteome, to generate high-resolution gel-based reference maps, and to give rice proteomics a functional dimension by studying PTMs and isolation of multiprotein complexes. Finally, we direct a vision on rice proteomics. This is our third review in series on rice proteomics, which aims to stimulate an objective discussion among rice researchers and to understand the necessity and impact of unraveling rice proteomes to their full potential.
16996631	The Bacillus cereus sensu lato group is genetically very close and possesses a remarkable plasmid gene pool that encodes a variety of functions such as virulence and self-transfer capabilities. The potential for horizontal transfer among the various subspecies of this group, which includes the human opportunistic pathogens B. cereus sensu stricto and B. anthracis as well as the biopesticide B. thuringiensis, has led to growing concerns regarding food safety and public health. In this study, the conjugative behaviour of B. thuringiensis strains was compared in LB medium, milk and rice pudding using the pXO16 and pAW63 conjugative systems, as well as the mobilisable plasmid pC194, in bi- and triparental matings. Conjugation and mobilisation of these plasmids were shown to occur at significant levels in both food products, attaining the highest transfer frequencies in milk, with an approximately ten-fold increase in conjugative transfer in this growth medium as compared to liquid LB. Furthermore, the ability of an emetic strain of B. cereus to function as either plasmid donor or recipient partner in heterologous biparental matings with B. thuringiensis was demonstrated in these food matrices.
17000027	To elucidate the role of acyl-CoA oxidase (ACX; EC 1.3.3.6) in plants, the expression patterns of rice ACXs in response to wounding were characterized. Three isogenes of ACX were identified in the rice genome. The deduced proteins of OsACX1, OsACX2 and OsACX3 consist of 669, 699 and 685 amino acid residues, respectively. The results from reverse transcriptase-PCR indicate that OsACX1 is expressed in leaves, stems, and roots, but was barely detectable in germinating seeds. OsACX2 was expressed predominantly in seeds. Only OsACX1 was upregulated by wounding, both locally and systemically. The expression of OsACX2 and OsACX3 remained unchanged. It is suggested that OsACX2 is involved in providing germinating seeds with sugar and energy, while OsACX1 plays a role in the synthesis of jasmonic acid in response to wounding.
17003053	MITEs (miniature inverted-repeated transposable elements) are a particular class of defective DNA transposons usually present within genomes as high copy number populations of highly homogeneous elements. Although an active MITE, the mPing element, has recently been characterized in rice, the transposition mechanism of MITEs remains unknown. It has been proposed that transposases of related transposons could mobilize MITEs in trans. Moreover, it has also been proposed that the presence of conserved terminal inverted-repeated (TIR) sequences could be the only requirement of MITEs for mobilization, allowing divergent or unrelated elements to be mobilized by a particular transposase. We present here evidence for a recent mobility of the Arabidopsis Emigrant MITE and we report on the capacity of the proteins encoded by the related Lemi1 transposon, a pogo-related element, to specifically bind Emigrant elements. This suggests that Lemi1 could mobilize Emigrant elements and makes the Lemi1/Emigrant couple an ideal system to study the transposition mechanism of MITEs. Our results show that Lemi1 proteins bind Emigrant TIRs but also bind cooperatively to subterminal repeated motifs. The requirement of internal sequences for the formation of proper DNA/protein structure could affect the capacity of divergent MITEs to be mobilized by distantly related transposases.
17006022	Availability of complete Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) genome sequences, together with molecular recourses of functional genomics and proteomics have revolutionized our understanding of reactive oxygen species (ROS) signalling network mediating disease resistance in plants. So far, ROS have been associated with aging, cellular and molecular alteration in animal and plant cells. Recently,concluding evidences suggest that ROS network is essential to induce disease resistance and even to mediate resistance to multiple stresses in plants. ROS are obligatory by-products emerging as a result of normal metabolic reactions. They have the potential to be both beneficial and harmful to cellular metabolism. Their dual effects on metabolic reactions are dosage specific. In this review we focus our attention on cellular ROS level to trigger beneficial effects on plant cells responding to pathogen attack. By exploring the research related contributions coupled with data of targeted gene disruption, and RNA interference approaches, we show here that ROS are ubiquitous molecules of redox-pathways that play a crucial role in plant defence mechanism. The molecular prerequisites of ROS network to activate plant defence system in response to pathogen infections are here underlined. Bioinformatic tools are now available to scientists for high throughput analysis of cellular metabolisms. These tools are used to illustrate crucial ROS-related genes that are involved in the defence mechanism of plants. The review describes also the emerging findings of ROS network pathways to modulate multiple stress resistance in plants.
17006591	The CESA gene superfamily of Arabidopsis and other seed plants comprises the CESA family, which encodes the catalytic subunits of cellulose synthase, and eight families of CESA-like (CSL) genes whose functions are largely unknown. The CSL genes have been proposed to encode processive beta-glycosyl transferases that synthesize noncellulosic cell wall polysaccharides. BLAST searches of EST and shotgun genomic sequences from the moss Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) B.S.G. were used to identify genes with high similarity to vascular plant CESAs, CSLAs, CSLCs, and CSLDs. However, searches using Arabidopsis CSLBs, CSLEs, and CSLGs or rice CSLFs or CSLHs as queries identified no additional CESA superfamily members in P. patens, indicating that this moss lacks representatives of these families. Intron insertion sites are highly conserved between Arabidopsis and P. patens in all four shared gene families. However, phylogenetic analysis strongly supports independent diversification of the shared families in mosses and vascular plants. The lack of orthologs of vascular plant CESAs in the P. patens genome indicates that the divergence of mosses and vascular plants predated divergence and specialization of CESAs for primary and secondary cell wall syntheses and for distinct roles within the rosette terminal complexes. In contrast to Arabidopsis, the CSLD family is highly represented among P. patens ESTs. This is consistent with the proposed function of CSLDs in tip growth and the central role of tip growth in the development of the moss protonema.
17006725	To describe the relationship between the intake of fruits, vegetables, and related vitamins and antioxidants, and the risk of prostate cancer in male participants in a large multiethnic cohort study. Food and nutrient intakes in 1993-1996 were calculated from a detailed food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) designed to account for the food and nutrient intake of the ethnic groups represented in the study (82,486 African-American, Japanese-American, Native-Hawaiian, Latino and White males included here). Follow-up for incident cancers utilized local SEER registries. Vital status was ascertained using state death files. Data on PSA utilization from a later questionnaire was also examined. A total of 3,922 incident cancer cases were ascertained during follow-up. Modestly increased risks of prostate cancer were observed in relation to higher intakes of several food items including light green lettuce and dark leafy green vegetables. Notably, no significant protective associations of any foods were seen, including tomato intake; and intakes of two complex foods containing tomato sauce (pizza and Spanish rice) were associated with modest increases in risk. PSA test use was significantly and positively related to intake of some of these same items, implying a degree of disease detection-bias. Analysis of non-localized and high grade disease (1,345 cases) showed no significant protective associations with overall fruits and vegetables intake, related micronutrients, or with intake of selected complex food items. We found no statistically significant evidence of a protective effect against prostate cancer of higher levels of intake of any of these foods, associated micronutrients or supplements. A possible explanation for the positive associations with risk of several of the foods normally considered to be healthy is detection bias, since "healthy" dietary intake was related to greater use of the PSA test.
17007133	A compartmented soil-glass bead culture system was used to investigate characteristics of iron plaque and arsenic accumulation and speciation in mature rice plants with different capacities of forming iron plaque on their roots. X-ray absorption near-edge structure spectra and extended X-ray absorption fine structure were utilized to identify the mineralogical characteristics of iron plaque and arsenic sequestration in plaque on the rice roots. Iron plaque was dominated by (oxyhydr)oxides, which were composed of ferrihydrite (81-100%), with a minor amount of goethite (19%) fitted in one of the samples. Sequential extraction and XANES data showed that arsenic in iron plaque was sequestered mainly with amorphous and crystalline iron (oxyhydr)oxides, and that arsenate was the predominant species. There was significant variation in iron plaque formation between genotypes, and the distribution of arsenic in different components of mature rice plants followed the following order: iron plaque > root > straw > husk > grain for all genotypes. Arsenic accumulation in grain differed significantly among genotypes. Inorganic arsenic and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) were the main arsenic species in rice grain for six genotypes, and there were large genotypic differences in levels of DMA and inorganic arsenic in grain.
17007865	A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) separation method with an evaporative light-scattering detector (ELSD) has been developed for the separation and quantitative analysis of fatty acid methyl esters (FAME) in three different oils. Reverse-phased C18 HPLC separation of 13 FAME is achieved using a methanol/water eluent mixture. The retention times (RT) reflect the elution behavior of these compounds on C18 reversed-phase HPLC. The proposed method is tested on: soybean oil (Glycine max L.) as reference sample, rice bran oil (Oryza sativa L.), pumpkin seed oil (Cucurbita pepo L.) and algal oil (Arthrospira platensis Nordst.).
17008128	Information on the health impacts of pesticides is quite limited in many developing countries, with many surveys relying solely on farmer self-assessments of their health status. To test the reliability of self-reported data, an acetyl cholinesterase enzyme (AChE) blood test was conducted for 190 rice farmers in the Mekong Delta, Vietnam. Results reveal a high prevalence of pesticide poisoning by organophosphate and carbamate exposure, where over 35% of test subjects experienced acute pesticide poisoning (a reduction of AChE >25%), and 21% chronically poisoned (>66% AChE reduction). Using the medical test results as benchmarks, we find that farmers' self-reported symptoms have very weak associations with actual poisoning. To investigate the possible determinants of pesticide poisoning, a probit model was constructed with pesticide amount, toxicity, training, and the use of protective measures as explanatory variables. The results indicate that although the absolute amount of pesticides used does not increase the probability of poisoning, a 1% increase in the use of highly hazardous pesticides (WHO Ia or Ib) increases the probability of poisoning by 3.9% and an increased use of protective measures decreases the probability of poisoning by 44.3%. We also find significant provincial differences in poisoning incidence after we control for individual factors. The provincial effects highlight the potential importance of negative externalities, and suggest that future research on pesticide-related damage should include information on local water, air and soil contamination.
17008991	Wheat expressed sequence tags (wESTs) were identified in a genomic interval predicted to span the Lr34/Yr18 slow rusting region on chromosome 7DS and that corresponded to genes located in the syntenic region of rice chromosome 6 (between 2.02 and 2.38 Mb). A subset of the wESTs was also used to identify corresponding bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones from the diploid D genome of wheat (Aegilops tauschii). Conservation and deviation of micro-colinearity within blocks of genes were found in the D genome BACs relative to the orthologous sequences in rice. Extensive RFLP analysis using the wEST derived clones as probes on a panel of wheat genetic stocks with or without Lr34/Yr18 revealed monomorphic patterns as the norm in this region of the wheat genome. A similar pattern was observed with single nucleotide polymorphism analysis on a subset of the wEST derived clones and subclones from corresponding D genome BACs. One exception was a wEST derived clone that produced a consistent RFLP pattern that distinguished the Lr34/Yr18 genetic stocks and well-established cultivars known either to possess or lack Lr34/Yr18. Conversion of the RFLP to a codominant sequence tagged site (csLV34) revealed a bi-allelic locus, where a variant size of 79 bp insertion in an intron sequence was associated with lines or cultivars that lacked Lr34/Yr18. This association with Lr34/Yr18 was validated in wheat cultivars from diverse backgrounds. Genetic linkage between csLV34 and Lr34/Yr18 was estimated at 0.4 cM.
17010199	Polygalacturonases (PGs) belong to a large gene family in plants and are believed to be responsible for various cell separation processes. PG activities have been shown to be associated with a wide range of plant developmental programs such as seed germination, organ abscission, pod and anther dehiscence, pollen grain maturation, fruit softening and decay, xylem cell formation, and pollen tube growth, thus illustrating divergent roles for members of this gene family. A close look at phylogenetic relationships among Arabidopsis and rice PGs accompanied by analysis of expression data provides an opportunity to address key questions on the evolution and functions of duplicate genes. We found that both tandem and whole-genome duplications contribute significantly to the expansion of this gene family but are associated with substantial gene losses. In addition, there are at least 21 PGs in the common ancestor of Arabidopsis and rice. We have also determined the relationships between Arabidopsis and rice PGs and their expression patterns in Arabidopsis to provide insights into the functional divergence between members of this gene family. By evaluating expression in five Arabidopsis tissues and during five stages of abscission, we found overlapping but distinct expression patterns for most of the different PGs. Expression data suggest specialized roles or subfunctionalization for each PG gene member. PGs derived from whole genome duplication tend to have more similar expression patterns than those derived from tandem duplications. Our findings suggest that PG duplicates underwent rapid expression divergence and that the mechanisms of duplication affect the divergence rate.
17010260	To validate an estimated food record (EFR), using a weighed food record (WFR) as the reference method, for the determination of food consumption and nutrient intakes in a group of Costa Rican adults. For the WFR, all foods consumed by subjects during seven consecutive days were weighed and recorded by nutrition students. Two EFRs (a 4-day and a 3-day record) were recorded by subjects with the use of home measures and photographs to estimate amounts. Costa Rica. Sixty adults: 30 men and 30 women; 30 living in urban and 30 in rural areas. The EFR gave statistically significant lower average intake estimates for energy and 12 of the 22 nutrients examined. The correlation coefficients ranged from 0.68 (polyunsaturated fats) to 0.87 (calcium). The percentage of subjects classified into the same quartile ranged from 45.0% (polyunsaturated fats) to 68.3% (vitamin B12). For all nutrients except vitamin C, 0 or 1.7% were misclassified into extreme quartiles. For food group consumption, the EFR gave statistically significant lower estimates for six of the 17 groups and correlation coefficients ranged from 0.22 (fish) to 0.93 (beverages). Greater differences in estimates of mean energy and nutrient intakes were detected among subjects from rural areas, caused in part by a tendency to underestimate the amounts of rice and beans consumed. Validation of the EFR using a WFR as the reference method gave results that compare favourably with those reported by other authors, and support the use of the EFR for dietary surveys among Costa Rican adults.
1701109	The nucleotide sequences of tRNA(Asn) (GUU) and tRNA(Tyr) (GUA) genes from tomato mitochondria and their flanking regions have been determined. The tomato mitochondrial tRNA(Asn) gene is located 2.1 kb downstream from the tRNA(Cys) gene reported previously (Izuchi and Sugita 1989) and shows a nearly complete identity with the corresponding chloroplast gene. The tRNA(Tyr) gene, which shows only 73% homology with the corresponding chloroplast gene, has to be considered a "native" mitochondrial tRNA gene and is 535 bp from the "chloroplast-like" tRNA(Asn) gene on the same strand. Northern hybridization analysis revealed that the three tRNA genes are transcribed in tomato mitochondria. Southern hybridization analysis of tomato, sugar beet. rice and wheat mitochondrial DNAs, with oligonucleotide probes for mitochondrial or chloroplast tRNA genes, demonstrated that the mitochondrial tRNA(Cys) gene found in tomato is present in dicot plants but not in monocots. On the other hand, a chloroplast-like tRNA(Cys) gene exists in monocot plants.
17011118	A factorial experimental design technique was used to investigate the biosorption of reactive red RGB (lambda(max)=521 nm) from water solution on rice husk treated with nitric acid. Biosorption is favored because of abundance of biomass, low cost, reduced sludge compared to conventional treatment techniques and better decontamination efficiency from highly diluted solutions. Factorial design of experiments is employed to study the effect of four factors pH (2 and 7), temperature (20 and 40), adsorbent dosage (5 and 50mg/L) and initial concentration of the dye (50 and 250 mg/L) at two levels low and high. The efficiency of color removal was determined after 60 min of treatment. Main effects and interaction effects of the four factors were analyzed using statistical techniques. A regression model was suggested and it was found to fit the experimental data very well. The results were analyzed statistically using the Student's t-test, analysis of variance, F-test and lack of fit to define most important process variables affecting the percentage dye removal. The most significant variable was thus found to be pH.
17012204	Most of today's students are skilled in instant messaging, Web browsing, online games, and blogs. These have become part of the social landscape and have changed how we learn and where we learn. The question becomes how to harness the attractiveness and ubiquity of electronic venues toward the goal of teaching neuroscience. At the Rice University Center for Technology in Teaching and Learning, a central focus is the creation of innovative materials that appeal to middle school students. A recent project was undertaken through a Science Education Drug Abuse Partnership Award (R25 DA15063) from the National Institute on Drug Abuse to inform adolescents about the neurobiology of substance abuse and the current research dealing with a class of drugs known as club drugs. Problem-based learning, multimedia pedagogy, and the National Science Content Standards were integrated to produce The Reconstructors, an episodic series available via the World Wide Web at http://reconstructors.rice.edu. A field test of students from five schools assessed the retention of content after "playing" The Reconstructors series titled Nothing to Rave About. Gain scores indicated that middle school students' knowledge about club drugs and the basic neuroscience concepts that explain their effects improved significantly.
17012402	The role of ethylene (ET) in resistance to infection with blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea) in rice (Oryza sativa) is poorly understood. To study it, we quantified ET levels after inoculation, using young rice plants at the four-leaf stage of rice cv Nipponbare (wild type) and its isogenic plant (IL7), which contains the Pi-i resistance gene to blast fungus race 003. Small necrotic lesions by hypersensitive reaction (HR) were formed at 42 to 72 h postinoculation (hpi) in resistant IL7 leaves, and whitish expanding lesions at 96 hpi in susceptible wild-type leaves. Notable was the enhanced ET emission at 48 hpi accompanied by increased 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) levels and highly elevated ACC oxidase (ACO) activity in IL7 leaves, whereas only an enhanced ACC increase at 96 hpi in wild-type leaves. Among six ACC synthase (ACS) and seven ACO genes found in the rice genome, OsACS2 was transiently expressed at 48 hpi in IL7 and at 96 hpi in wild type, and OsACO7 was expressed at 48 hpi in IL7. Treatment with an inhibitor for ACS, aminooxyacetic acid, suppressed enhanced ET emission at 48 hpi in IL7, resulting in expanding lesions instead of HR lesions. Exogenously supplied ACC compromised the aminooxyacetic acid-induced breakdown of resistance in IL7, and treatment with 1-methylcyclopropene and silver thiosulfate, inhibitors of ET action, did not suppress resistance. These findings suggest the importance of ET biosynthesis and, consequently, the coproduct, cyanide, for HR-accompanied resistance to blast fungus in young rice plants and the contribution of induced OsACS2 and OsACO7 gene expression to it.
17012406	Kip-related proteins (KRPs) play a major role in the regulation of the plant cell cycle. We report the identification of five putative rice (Oryza sativa) proteins that share characteristic motifs with previously described plant KRPs. To investigate the function of KRPs in rice development, we generated transgenic plants overexpressing the Orysa;KRP1 gene. Phenotypic analysis revealed that overexpressed KRP1 reduced cell production during leaf development. The reduced cell production in the leaf meristem was partly compensated by an increased cell size, demonstrating the existence of a compensatory mechanism in monocot species by which growth rate is less reduced than cell production, through cell expansion. Furthermore, Orysa;KRP1 overexpression dramatically reduced seed filling. Sectioning through the overexpressed KRP1 seeds showed that KRP overproduction disturbed the production of endosperm cells. The decrease in the number of fully formed seeds was accompanied by a drop in the endoreduplication of endosperm cells, pointing toward a role of KRP1 in connecting endocycle with endosperm development. Also, spatial and temporal transcript detection in developing seeds suggests that Orysa;KRP1 plays an important role in the exit from the mitotic cell cycle during rice grain formation.
17012407	To understand the molecular mechanism regulating meristem development in the monocot rice (Oryza sativa), we describe here the isolation and characterization of three floral organ number4 (fon4) alleles and the cloning of the FON4 gene. The fon4 mutants showed abnormal enlargement of the embryonic and vegetative shoot apical meristems (SAMs) and the inflorescence and floral meristems. Likely due to enlarged SAMs, fon4 mutants produced thick culms (stems) and increased numbers of both primary rachis branches and floral organs. We identified FON4 using a map-based cloning approach and found it encodes a small putatively secreted protein, which is the putative ortholog of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CLAVATA3 (CLV3) gene. FON4 transcripts mainly accumulated in the small group of cells at the apex of the SAMs, whereas the rice ortholog of CLV1 (FON1) is expressed throughout the SAMs, suggesting that the putative FON4 ligand might be sequestered as a possible mechanism for rice meristem regulation. Exogenous application of the peptides FON4p and CLV3p corresponding to the CLV3/ESR-related (CLE) motifs of FON4 and CLV3, respectively, resulted in termination of SAMs in rice, and treatment with CLV3p caused consumption of both rice and Arabidopsis root meristems, suggesting that the CLV pathway in limiting meristem size is conserved in both rice and Arabidopsis. However, exogenous FON4p did not have an obvious effect on limiting both rice and Arabidopsis root meristems, suggesting that the CLE motifs of Arabidopsis CLV3 and FON4 are potentially functionally divergent.
17012571	A facultatively chemolithoautotrophic, Gram-negative, aerobic, highly curved rod-shaped, non-motile, non-spore-forming bacterium, strain Jip08(T), was isolated from rice straw in Daejeon, South Korea. Strain Jip08(T) produced colourless colonies (1.0-1.5 mm) on R2A medium after 3 days. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity, strain Jip08(T) was shown to belong to the alpha-2 subclass of the Proteobacteria, and was most closely related to Starkeya novella IAM 12100(T) (98.6 %), Angulomicrobium tetraedale DSM 5895(T) (98.1 %), Angulomicrobium amanitiforme NCIMB 1785(T) (98.0 %), Ancylobacter aquaticus ATCC 25396(T) (96.6 %) and Methylorhabdus multivorans DM13(T) (95.8 %), all of which belong to the family Hyphomicrobiaceae. The genomic DNA G+C content of strain Jip08(T) was 69 mol%. Chemotaxonomic data [major ubiquinone, Q-10; major fatty acids, C(18 : 1) isomer (summed feature of C(18 : 1)omega7c/omega9t/omega12t), C(19 : 0) cyclo omega8c and C(16 : 0)], 16S rRNA gene sequence analyses and some morphological and physiological features supported the affiliation of strain Jip08(T) to the genus Starkeya. However, DNA-DNA hybridization data and some phenotypic properties showed that strain Jip08(T) could be distinguished from the single known Starkeya species and represented a novel species, for which the name Starkeya koreensis sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is Jip08(T) (=KCTC 12212(T)=NBRC 100963(T)=IAM 15215(T)).
1701398	Using polyclonal antibodies raised against a Drosophila Ca2(+)-binding protein (DCABP-23), clones were isolated from a Drosophila head cDNA library constructed in the expression vector lambda gt11. Two non-homologous clones have been isolated and are being subjected to sequence analysis. One of these clones, though not encoding DCABP-23, does encode a Drosophila cystatin-like protein. This presumed Drosophila cystatin shows homology to mammalian cystatins, chicken egg white cystatin and the rice oryzacystatin. The Drosophila cystatin has been mapped, by in situ hybridization, to region 88C on the right arm of the third chromosome.
17016673	Expression of the gene (OsCA1) coding for carbonic anhydrase (CA) in leaves and roots of rice was induced by environmental stresses from salts (NaCl, NaHCO(3) and Na(2)CO(3)), and osmotic stress (10%, w/v, PEG 6000). CA activity of rice seedlings more than doubled under some of these stresses. Transgenic Arabidopsis over-expressing OsCA1 had a greater salt tolerance at the seedling stage than wild-type plants in 1/2 MS medium with 5 mM NaHCO(3), 50 mM NaCl, on 100 mM NaCl. Thus CA expression responds to environmental stresses and is related to stress tolerance in rice.
17016688	The Poales (includes the grasses) and Asparagales [includes onion (Allium cepa L.) and asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.)] are the two most economically important monocot orders. The Poales are a member of the commelinoid monocots, a group of orders sister to the Asparagales. Comparative genomic analyses have revealed a high degree of synteny among the grasses; however, it is not known if this synteny extends to other major monocot groups such as the Asparagales. Although we previously reported no evidence for synteny at the recombinational level between onion and rice, microsynteny may exist across shorter genomic regions in the grasses and Asparagales. We sequenced nine asparagus BACs to reveal physically linked genic-like sequences and determined their most similar positions in the onion and rice genomes. Four of the asparagus BACs were selected using molecular markers tightly linked to the sex-determining M locus on chromosome 5 of asparagus. These BACs possessed only two putative coding regions and had long tracts of degenerated retroviral elements and transposons. Five asparagus BACs were selected after hybridization of three onion cDNAs that mapped to three different onion chromosomes. Genic-like sequences that were physically linked on the cDNA-selected BACs or genetically linked on the M-linked BACs showed significant similarities (e < -20) to expressed sequences on different rice chromosomes, revealing no evidence for microsynteny between asparagus and rice across these regions. Genic-like sequences that were linked in asparagus were used to identify highly similar (e < -20) expressed sequence tags (ESTs) of onion. These onion ESTs mapped to different onion chromosomes and no relationship was observed between physical or genetic linkages in asparagus and genetic linkages in onion. These results further indicate that synteny among grass genomes does not extend to a sister order in the monocots and that asparagus may not be an appropriate smaller genome model for plants in the Asparagales with enormous nuclear genomes.
17017214	Malaria vectors can reach very high densities in villages near irrigated rice fields in Africa, leading to the expectation that malaria should be especially prevalent there. Surprisingly, this is not always the case. In Niono, Mali, villages from nonirrigated areas have higher malaria prevalence than those within the irrigated regions, which suffer from higher mosquito numbers. One hypothesis explaining this observation is that mosquitoes from irrigated fields with high densities are inefficient vectors. This could occur if higher larval densities lead to smaller mosquitoes that suffer elevated mortality. Three predictions of the hypothesis were studied. First, the effect of larval density on larval body size was measured for both Anopheles gambiae Giles and Anopheles funestus Giles. Second, the relationship between larval and adult body size was tested. Third, evidence of an effect of adult size on survivorship in both irrigated and nonirrigated villages during the wet and dry seasons was sought. There was a modest positive relationship between densities of immatures and larval size, and a strong relationship between larval and adult size. Furthermore, adult survivorship was higher in nonirrigated areas. However, there was no effect of size on survivorship between comparable samples from both the irrigated and nonirrigated zones. Although density may have a causal relationship with reduced transmission in the irrigated areas of Niono, it is unlikely to be because higher density leads to smaller body size and lower survivorship.
17017215	Rice fields are important sources of mosquitoes in many regions, and rice (Oryza spp.) growing practices can affect mosquito populations. Rice straw incorporation and winter flooding have become common methods to prepare seedbeds, largely replacing burning of straw. These methods increase nutrients during the growing season. We sampled mosquito larvae during 1999-2001 in 16 0.72-ha plots where straw was either burned or incorporated into soil after the previous growing season; these treatments were crossed with either winter flooding or no winter flooding. In 2000, all fields were drained mid-season for an application of herbicide, and then they were reflooded. Mosquitoes responded positively to straw incorporation and winter flooding, especially in combination. The mid-season reflood in year 2 was associated with an order of magnitude increase in Culex tarsalis Coquillett larvae. Results confirm that rice straw and water management can strongly influence mosquito populations.
17018557	PAMP (pathogen-associated molecular pattern) recognition plays an important role during the innate immune response in both plants and animals. Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) derived from Gram-negative bacteria are representative of typical PAMP molecules and have been reported to induce defense-related responses, including the suppression of the hypersensitive response, the expression of defense genes and systemic resistance in plants. However, the details regarding the precise molecular mechanisms underlying these cellular responses, such as the molecular machinery involved in the perception and transduction of LPS molecules, remain largely unknown. Furthermore, the biological activities of LPS on plants have so far been reported only in dicots and no information is thus available regarding their functions in monocots. In our current study, we report that LPS preparations for various becteria, including plant pathogens and non-pathogens, can induce defense responses in rice cells, including reactive oxygen generation and defense gene expression. In addition, global analysis of gene expression induced by two PAMPs, LPS and chitin oligosaccharide, also reveals a close correlation between the gene responses induced by these factors. This indicates that there is a convergence of signaling cascades downstream of their corresponding receptors. Furthermore, we show that the defense responses induced by LPS in the rice cells are associated with programmed cell death (PCD), which is a finding that has not been previously reported for the functional role of these molecules in plant cells. Interestingly, PCD induction by the LPS was not detected in cultured Arabidopsis thaliana cells.
17019646	Since we have limited knowledge about the occurrence of Helicobacter in wild animals, we searched for Helicobacter species in the gastrointestinal tract of 75 rodents captured in forest remnants of Minas Gerais, Brazil. Fragments from the antrum and corpus of the stomach and from the colon were taken for PCR assays for Helicobacter detection. Although gastric mucosa was Helicobacter-positive in only one animal, the bacterium was detected in the colonic mucosa of 23 rodents (30.7%). Helicobacter detection was more frequent in the colon of terraced rice rat (56%) and house rat (30%) in contrast to punare and Spix's yellow-toothed cavy, in which the presence of the bacterium was not detected. Helicobacter rodentium, H. marmotae, H. cinaedi, and other species closely related to the murine helicobacters were presumptively identified by DNA sequencing. Wild rodents may serve as a reservoir of these Helicobacter species in nature.
17019769	The vertical distribution of mosquitoes (Diptera, Culicidae) was evaluated in Paju County in northern South Korea by using Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) miniature light traps with ultraviolet light and dry ice (CO2) as attractants. CDC traps were placed at 1, 3 and 5 m above the ground near rice paddies in a relatively open agricultural ara. Traps wer hung on two scaffold towers (6 m height) spaced approximately 300 m aprt. Each trap operated 9 nights from August 3 to 16, 2002, and collected 9,971 mosquitoes: Aedes Vexans nipponii, 145.2; Culex tritaeniorhynchus, 34.9; Anopheles sinensis, 21.3; and Culex pipiens, 17.3 female mosquitoes/trap/night. Average flight height was calculated from the total number of catches in both stations. Overall, Cx. pipiens (2.52 +/- 0.35 m) was found to be the highest flying species followed by An. sinensis (2.04 +/- 0.79 m), Ae. vexans nipponii (1.96 +/- 0.44 m), and Cx. tritaeniorhynchus (1.76 +/- 0.68 m), respectively. Although no significant difference in flying height among species was encountered, every species showed their own flight preference range, matching with their host preference.
17021231	Recently we discovered two novel, deeply branching lineages in the domain Bacteria from termite guts by PCR-based analyses of 16S rRNA (Y. Hongoh, P. Deevong, T. Inoue, S. Moriya, S. Trakulnaleamsai, M. Ohkuma, C. Vongkaluang, N. Noparatnaraporn, and T. Kudo, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 71:6590-6599, 2005). Here, we report on the specific detection of these bacteria, the candidate phylum TG3 (Termite Group 3) and a subphylum in the phylum Fibrobacteres, by fluorescence in situ hybridization in the guts of the wood-feeding termites Microcerotermes sp. and Nasutitermes takasagoensis. Both bacterial groups were detected almost exclusively from the luminal fluid of the dilated portion in the hindgut. Each accounted for approximately 10% of the total prokaryotic cells, constituting the second-most dominant groups in the whole-gut microbiota. The detected cells of both groups were in undulate or vibroid forms and apparently resembled small spirochetes. The cell sizes were 0.2 to 0.4 by 1.3 to 6.0 microm and 0.2 to 0.3 by 1.3 to 4.9 microm in the TG3 and Fibrobacteres, respectively. Using PCR screenings with specific primers, we found that both groups are distributed among various termites. The obtained clones formed monophyletic clusters that were delineated by the host genus rather than by the geographic distance, implying a robust association between these bacteria and host termites. TG3 clones were also obtained from a cockroach gut, lake sediment, rice paddy soil, and deep-sea sediments. Our results suggest that the TG3 and Fibrobacteres bacteria are autochthonous gut symbionts of various termites and that the TG3 members are also widely distributed among various other environments.
17021872	Transgenic suspension cells of Oryza sativa L. cv. Dongjin utilized as a host for producing recombinant human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4-immunoglobulin (hCTLA4Ig) were preserved in liquid nitrogen (-196 degrees C) after slow prefreezing in a deep freezer (-70 degrees C). The development of an optimal procedure for long-term storage was investigated by the addition of various concentrations of cryoprotectant mixture and osmoticum in preculture media before cooling. A pre-deep-freezing time of 120 min was the most effective for maintaining cell viability. Compared with mannitol, sorbitol, trehalose, and NaCl under the same osmotic conditions, 0.5 M sucrose was found to be the best osmoticum for preculture media. The cryoprotectant comprising sucrose, glycerol, and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) was applied to the precultured cells, and a combination of 1 M sucrose, 1 M glycerol, and 1 M DMSO provided the best result. The viability with this optimized condition was 88% after cryocell-banking for 1 day. The expression of hCTLA4Ig in recovered callus from cryopreservation was also kept stable, and the production level was similar to that observed in noncryopreserved cultures.
17022169	The MGOS (Magnaporthe grisea Oryza sativa) web-based database contains data from Oryza sativa and Magnaporthe grisea interaction experiments in which M. grisea is the fungal pathogen that causes the rice blast disease. In order to study the interactions, a consortium of fungal and rice geneticists was formed to construct a comprehensive set of experiments that would elucidate information about the gene expression of both rice and M. grisea during the infection cycle. These experiments included constructing and sequencing cDNA and robust long-serial analysis gene expression libraries from both host and pathogen during different stages of infection in both resistant and susceptible interactions, generating >50,000 M. grisea mutants and applying them to susceptible rice strains to test for pathogenicity, and constructing a dual O. sativa-M. grisea microarray. MGOS was developed as a central web-based repository for all the experimental data along with the rice and M. grisea genomic sequence. Community-based annotation is available for the M. grisea genes to aid in the study of the interactions.
17022177	Many studies in dicotyledonous plants have shown that jasmonates, including jasmonic acid (JA) and methyl jasmonate, are important signal molecules involved in induced resistance to pathogen infection and insect herbivory. However, very little genetic and molecular evidence is available to demonstrate their role in host defense response of rice and other economically important monocot plants. In this study, we have shown that exogenous application of JA was able to activate defense gene expression and local induced resistance in rice seedlings against the rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea). Furthermore, we have characterized a pathogen-inducible rice OsAOS2 gene (which encodes allene oxide synthase, a key enzyme in the JA biosynthetic pathway) and examined the role of endogenous JA in rice defense response through transgenic manipulation of the JA biosynthesis. Sequence analysis indicated that OsAOS2 contains four common domains of the cytochrome P450 enzyme, but does not have the signal peptide for chloroplast targeting. The basal level of OsAOS2 expression is very low in leaves but relatively high in the sheath, culm, and flower of rice plants. Interestingly, the expression of OsAOS2 in rice leaves can be induced significantly upon M. grisea infection. Transgenic rice lines carrying the OsAOS2 transgene under the control of a strong, pathogen-inducible PBZ1 promoter accumulated abundant OsAOS2 transcripts and higher levels of JA, especially after the pathogen infection. These transgenic lines also exhibited enhanced activation of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes such as PR1a, PR3, and PR5 and increased resistance to M. grisea infection. Our results suggest that JA plays a significant role in PR gene induction and blast resistance in rice plants.
17022630	We analyzed a unique rice (Oryza sativa L.) blast lesion mimic (blm) mutant for differentially expressed proteins in leaves of one- and two-week-old seedlings manifesting the lesion mimic phenotype. Gel-based one- and two-dimensional electrophoresis (1- and 2-DGE) was performed using leaves (blm and wild-type, WT) before (stage 1, S1) and after (stage 2, S2) lesion formation. 1-DGE immunoblotting revealed potent increase in the expression of a key pathogenesis-related (PR) marker biosynthetic enzyme, naringenin 7-O-methyltransferase, involved in rice phytoalexin sakuranetin biosynthesis, and three oxidative-stress-related marker proteins, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in leaves of the blm mutant. 2-D gel immunoblotting analysis with anti-APX and anti-SOD antibodies revealed newly appearing cross-reacting protein spots in blm. 2-DGE analysis detected 50 Coomassie brilliant blue-stained protein spots differentially expressed in blm. A total of 23 and 44 protein spots was excised for analysis by N-terminal amino acid sequencing and nano-electrospray ionization liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, respectively; 26 nonredundant proteins were identified. The pathogenesis-related class 5 and 10 proteins, including a new OsPR10d protein, were significantly induced in blm. The OsPR5 protein spot was stained with Pro-Q Diamond phosphoprotein gel stain suggesting OsPR5 to be a putative phosphoprotein. Surprisingly, protein spot 20, a leaf OsPR10b, showed identity to a rice root-specific PR-10 (RSOsPR10). To resolve this discrepancy, we checked its expression in leaves of blm and WT (S1 and S2), respectively, using gene-specific primers and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction; RSOsPR10 mRNA was found to express in the leaves.
17022939	Ethylene and submergence enhance stem elongation of deepwater rice, at least in part, by reducing in the internode the endogenous abscisic acid (ABA) content and increasing the level of gibberellin A1 (GA1). We cloned and characterized the CYP707A5 and CYP707A6 genes, which encode putative ABA 8'-hydroxylase, the enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of ABA. Expression of CYP707A5 was upregulated significantly by ethylene treatment, whereas that of CYP707A6 was not altered. Recombinant proteins from both genes expressed in yeast cells showed activity of ABA 8'-hydroxylase. This finding indicates that CYP707A5 may play a role in ABA catabolism during submergence- or ethylene-induced stem elongation in deepwater rice. Taken together, these results provide links between the molecular mechanisms and physiological phenomena of submergence- and ethylene-induced stem elongation in deepwater rice.
17023166	We have cloned and characterized a gene encoding voltage-dependent anion channel from Pennisetum glaucum (PgVDAC). PgVDAC was identified while isolating genes that were differentially up-regulated following salt stress. The genomic organization of PgVDAC clone was well conserved compared to other plant VDAC genes in terms of number of introns, their position and phasing, however, the primary amino acid sequence of voltage dependent anion channel (VDAC) proteins did not show much conservation with other plant VDACs but their secondary and tertiary structures are well conserved as predicted by in silico structural and CD spectra analyses and results show it to be a typical membrane-spanning beta-barrel leading to the formation of pore in the membrane. The heterologous expression of PgVDAC protein in yeast strain lacking the endogenous mitochondrial VDAC gene could not functionally complement it as was also previously observed for the potato VDAC. Using real-time quantitative PCR analysis it was found that transcript expression profile of PgVDAC was quantitatively and kinetically up-regulated in response to salinity, desiccation, cold and exogenous application of salicylic acid (SA); however, there was no effect of exogenous application of abscisic acid (ABA) on its expression. Constitutive over-expression of PgVDAC appears to be deleterious in transgenic rice plant; however, low level of up-regulation imparted salinity stress adaptive response. A search for a more suitable inducible transgene system is currently under way to understand PgVDAC expression levels in plant development and its role in stress adaptation.
17023709	Iron fortification of rice could be an effective strategy for reducing iron deficiency anemia in South Asia. We aimed to determine whether extruded rice grains fortified with micronized ground ferric pyrophosphate (MGFP) would increase body iron stores in children. In a double-blind, 7-mo, school-based feeding trial in Bangalore, India, iron-depleted, 6-13-y-old children (n = 184) were randomly assigned to receive either a rice-based lunch meal fortified with 20 mg Fe as MGFP or an identical but unfortified control meal. The meals were consumed under direct supervision, and daily leftovers were weighed. All children were dewormed at baseline and at 3.5 mo. Iron status and hemoglobin were measured at baseline, 3.5 mo, and 7 mo. At baseline, the prevalences of iron deficiency and iron deficiency anemia in the total sample were 78% and 29%, respectively. After 7 mo of feeding, there was a significant increase in body iron stores in both study groups (P < 0.001), with a greater increase in the iron group than in the control group (P < 0.05). There was a significant time x treatment interaction for iron deficiency, which fell from 78% to 25% in the dewormed iron group and from 79% to 49% in the dewormed control group. Iron deficiency anemia decreased from 30% to 15% (NS) in the iron group but remained virtually unchanged in the control group (28% and 27%). In sensory tests, the MGFP-fortified rice (fortified at 3 and 5 mg Fe/100 g) was indistinguishable from natural rice, in both cooked and uncooked form. Extruded rice fortified with MGFP has excellent sensory characteristics. Fed in a school lunch meal, it increases iron stores and reduces the prevalence of iron deficiency in Indian children.
17024560	The present study was aimed at applying condition factor (CF), brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and gill histology as biomarkers for detecting possible exposure/effect induced by pesticides in fish residing rice field associated waterbodies in Sri Lanka. Biomarkers of an indigenous fish, Rasbora caverii collected from five sampling sites including canals near rice fields, a river and a reservoir (the reference site) were evaluated at four sampling stages covering pesticide application periods during rice cultivation season in 2004. Results indicated that CF of the fish did not show significant alterations regardless of the sampling sites or sampling stages. Site specific differences in AChE activities of the fish were not evident either prior to application of pesticides or at 7 days after Paraquat application to the rice fields. Two days after the application of a mixture of Fenthion and Phenthoate to the rice fields, AChE activity of the fish collected from canals near rice fields was significantly depressed (65-75%) compared to the fish in the reference site. The activities remain depressed to 50-56% even at 65 days after the insecticides application. Laboratory studies showed that prior exposure of R. caverii to Paraquat (2 microg l(-1), 7 days) enhanced the extent of inhibition of brain AChE activity induced by Fenthion (3 microg l(-1)) or a mixture of Fenthion (3 microg l(-1)) and Phenthoate (5 microg l(-1)). Gills of fish collected from canals near rice fields exhibited abnormal multiple divisions at the tips of some secondary lamellae in addition to hyperplasia, hypertrophy and club shaped deformities. Results indicate that application of pesticides in rice culture could manifest a threat to native fish populations residing rice field associated waterbodies. The response of brain AChE and histological changes in the gills of R. caverii allowed differentiating sampling sites after insecticide applications to the rice fields. Hence, R. caverii may be considered as a surrogate species in ecotoxicological risk evaluation of agrochemicals in the region.
17027118	Brassinosteroids (BRs) are endogenous plant hormones essential for plant growth and development. Brassinosteroid insensitive1 (BRI1)-assocaiated receptor kinase (BAK1) is one of the key components in the BR signal transduction pathway due to its direct association with the BR receptor, BRI1. Although BRI1 and its orthologs have been identified from both dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous plants, less is known about BAK1 and its orthologs in higher plants other than Arabidopsis. This article provides the first piece of evidence that AtBAK1 can greatly affect growth and development of rice plants when ectopically expressed, suggesting that rice may share similar BR perception mechanism via BRI1/BAK1 complex. Interestingly, transgenic rice plants displayed semi-dwarfism and shortened primary roots. Physiological analysis and cell morphology assay demonstrated that the observed phenotypes in transgenic plants were presumably caused by hypersensitivity to endogenous levels of BRs, different from BR insensitive and deficient rice mutants. Consistently, several known BR inducible genes were also upregulated in transgenic rice plants, further suggesting that BAK1 was able to affect BR signaling in rice. On the other hand, the transgenic plants generated by overproducing AtBAK1 may potentially have agricultural applications because the dwarfed phenotype is generally resistant to lodging, while the fertility remains unaffected.
17027877	A glucosyltransferase cDNA, RF5, was cloned from Oryza sativa using an RT-PCR strategy and expressed in Escherichia coli. Several flavonoids were tested for their ability to serve as substrates for RF5. RF5 effectively glucosylated kaempferol and quercetin to produce their 3-O-glucosides. Thus, RF5 could be defined as a flavonol 3-O-glucosyltransferase. E. coli cells expressing RF5 effectively converted 100 microM of kaempferol and quercetin into their corresponding glucosides.
17028208	A nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase (NPP) activity that catalyzes the hydrolytic breakdown of ADP-glucose (ADPG) has been shown to occur in the plastidial compartment of both mono- and dicotyledonous plants. To learn more about this enzyme, we purified two NPPs from rice (Oryza sativa) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) seedlings. Both enzymes are glycosylated, since they bind to concanavalin A, stain with periodic acid-Schiff reagent, and are digested by Endo-H. A complete rice NPP cDNA, designated as NPP1, was isolated, characterized, and overexpressed in transgenic plants displaying high ADPG hydrolytic activity. Databank searches revealed that NPP1 belongs to a functionally divergent group of plant nucleotide hydrolases. NPP1 contains numerous N-glycosylation sites and a cleavable hydrophobic signal sequence that does not match with the N-terminal part of the mature protein. Both immunocytochemical analyses and confocal fluorescence microscopy of rice cells expressing NPP1 fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) revealed that NPP1-GFP occurs in the plastidial compartment. Brefeldin A treatment of NPP1-GFP-expressing cells prevented NPP1-GFP accumulation in the chloroplasts. Endo-H digestibility studies revealed that both NPP1 and NPP1-GFP in the chloroplast are glycosylated. Collectively, these data demonstrate the trafficking of glycosylated proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi system to the chloroplast in higher plants.
17028332	The largest component of plant and animal genomes characterized to date is transposable elements (TEs). The availability of a significant amount of Lotus japonicus genome sequence has permitted for the first time a comprehensive study of the TE landscape in a legume species. Here we report the results of a combined computer-assisted and experimental analysis of the TEs in the 32.4 Mb of finished TAC clones. While computer-assisted analysis facilitated a determination of TE abundance and diversity, the availability of complete TAC sequences permitted identification of full-length TEs, which facilitated the design of tools for genomewide experimental analysis. In addition to containing all TE types found in previously characterized plant genomes, the TE component of L. japonicus contained several surprises. First, it is the second species (after Oryza sativa) found to be rich in Pack-MULEs, with >1000 elements that have captured and amplified gene fragments. In addition, we have identified what appears to be a legume-specific MULE family that was previously identified only in fungal species. Finally, the L. japonicus genome contains many hundreds, perhaps thousands of Sireviruses: Ty1/copia-like elements with an extra ORF. Significantly, several of the L. japonicus Sireviruses have recently amplified and may still be actively transposing.
17028335	Statistical methods for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTL) have been extensively studied. While most existing methods assume normal distribution of the phenotype, the normality assumption could be easily violated when phenotypes are measured in counts. One natural choice to deal with count traits is to apply the classical Poisson regression model. However, conditional on covariates, the Poisson assumption of mean-variance equality may not be valid when data are potentially under- or overdispersed. In this article, we propose an interval-mapping approach for phenotypes measured in counts. We model the effects of QTL through a generalized Poisson regression model and develop efficient likelihood-based inference procedures. This approach, implemented with the EM algorithm, allows for a genomewide scan for the existence of QTL throughout the entire genome. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated through extensive simulation studies along with comparisons with existing approaches such as the Poisson regression and the generalized estimating equation approach. An application to a rice tiller number data set is given. Our approach provides a standard procedure for mapping QTL involved in the genetic control of complex traits measured in counts.
17028877	In this research, a commercial koji maker with a rotary perforated bed of 5-m diameter was modified for red mold rice production. Monascus purpureus BCRC 31499 was selected for its high production capacities of monacolin K and red pigment. The selected strain was first cultivated in a 120-l submerged type fermentor at 34 degrees C and 2 vvm aeration rate with 60 rpm agitation for 5 days using 20% liquefied rice porridge as carbon source. The high concentration red mold rice broth (>3.5 g/ml) was harvested for inocula and well mixed with cooked rice to an initial concentration of 2% v/w. The inoculated cooked rice then was directed into the modified koji maker, in which temperature and humidity profiles were kept at varied levels at different stages, respectively. Air was circulated to remove fermentation heat while the perforated bed rotated slowly for providing mild agitation. Lag phase of the Monascus sp. in the modified koji maker was determined to be 16 h by the time the koji temperature raised rapidly. Water was added into the koji bed by a water curtain at the 36th hour to keep the moisture content of the rice koji at 50% or above. At the final stage, temperature was adjusted to 34 degrees C to direct red pigment production. After 7 days, 1,200-kg high quality red mold rice was harvested per batch. Labor costs, space, and fermentation time were reduced tremendously compared with those made by traditional methods.
17028937	Small non-coding RNAs play important roles in regulating cell functions by controlling mRNA turnover and translational repression in eukaryotic cells. Here we isolated 162 endogenous small RNA molecules from Oryza sativa, which ranged from 16 to 35 nt in length. Further analysis indicated that they represented a diversity of small RNA molecules, including 17 microRNAs (miRNAs), 30 tiny non-coding RNAs (tncRNAs) and 20 repeat-associated small interfering RNAs (rasiRNAs). Among 17 miRNAs, 13 were novel miRNA candidates and their potential targets were important regulatory genes in the rice genome. We also found that a cluster of small RNAs, including many rasiRNAs, matched to a nuclear DNA fragment that evolutionarily derived from chloroplast. These results demonstrate clearly the existence of distinct types of small RNAs in rice and further suggest that small RNAs may control gene regulation through diverse mechanisms.
17028959	The dynamic expression of genes for protein and lysine contents of rice grain under different environments was carried out with time-dependent measures by using the developmental genetic models for quantitative traits of triploid endosperm in cereal crops. The results showed that the genetic effects, especially genotype x environment (GE) interaction effects from the genes expression of different genetic systems including triploid endosperm, cytoplasm and diploid maternal plant were important for the performance of both nutrient quality traits at all developmental times/stages of rice grain. The conditional genetic variance analysis found that the activation of quantitative genes especially from endosperm and maternal plant genetic systems for protein and lysine contents was gradually carried through the developmental process of rice grain. The net genetic effects showed that the new expression of quantitative genes for protein and lysine contents was more active at late filling stage (15-21 days after flowering) and maturity stage (22-28 days) of rice grain. Also the sequential expression of cytoplasmic genes cannot be ignorable for the development of nutrient quality traits. The phenomena that some genes could continuously express for several developmental stages or the genes expression could be interrupted among developmental stages of rice grain was detected especially for net endosperm additive main effects or maternal additive main effects. The differences of genetic relationships from different genetic systems were found for protein and lysine contents among developmental times of rice grain.
17029439	Ab initio modified Gaussian-2 G2M(RCC,MP2) calculations have been performed for various isomers and transition states on the singlet C4H4 potential energy surface. The computed relative energies and molecular parameters have then been used to calculate energy-dependent rate constants for different isomerization and dissociation processes in the C4H4 system employing Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory and to predict branching ratios of possible products of the C2(1Sigmag+)+C2H4, C(1D)+H2CCCH2, and C(1D)+H3CCCH reactions under single-collision conditions. The results show that C2 adds to the double C=C bond of ethylene without a barrier to form carbenecyclopropane, which then isomerizes to butatriene by a formal C2 "insertion" into the C-C bond of the C2H4 fragment. Butatriene can rearrange to the other isomers of C4H4, including allenylcarbene, methylenecyclopropene, vinylacetylene, methylpropargylene, cyclobutadiene, tetrahedrane, methylcyclopropenylidene, and bicyclobutene. The major decomposition products of the chemically activated C4H4 molecule formed in the C2(1Sigmag+)+C2H4 reaction are calculated to be acetylene+vinylidene (48.6% at Ecol = 0) and 1-buten-3-yne-2-yl radical [i-C4H3(X2A'), H2C=C=C=CH*]+H (41.3%). As the collision energy increases from 0 to 10 kcal/mol, the relative yield of i-C4H3+H grows to 52.6% and that of C2H2+CCH2 decreases to 35.5%. For the C(1D)+allene reaction, the most important products are also i-C4H3+H (55.2%) and C2H2+CCH2 (30.1%), but for C(1D)+methylacetylene, which accesses a different region of the C4H4 singlet potential energy surface, the calculated product branching ratios differ significantly: 65%-69% for i-C4H3+H, 18%-14% for C2H2+CCH2, and approximately 8% for diacetylene+H2.
17029495	Phytochrome has been shown to be the major photoreceptor involved in the photo-inhibition of coleoptile growth in Japonica-type rice (Oryza sativa L.). We have characterized this typical photomorphogenetic response of rice using mutants deficient in phytochrome A (phyA) and phytochrome B (phyB) and with respect to age-dependency and action spectra. Seedlings were irradiated with a pulse of light 40 h or 80 h after germination (i.e. at an early or late developmental stage) and the final coleoptile length of these seedlings was determined. A saturating pulse of red light (R) had a stronger effect when it was given in the late stage than in the early stage. It was found that the photoinhibition is mediated by both the phyA and the phyB in the late stage but predominantly by phyB in the early stage. Consistent with many other reported responses, the photo-inhibition in the phyA mutant, which was observed in the early and late developmental stages and is thought to be mediated mainly by phyB, occurred in the low-fluence range (10(1)-10(3) micromol m(-2)) of R and was far-red-light (FR)-reversible; the photo-inhibition in the phyB mutant, which was observed in the late developmental stage and is thought to be mediated mainly by phyA, occurred in the very-low-fluence range (10(-2)-10(0) micromol m(-2)) and was FR-irreversible. The action spectra (350-800 nm at 50 nm intervals) obtained at the two developmental stages using phyA and phyB mutants indicated that both the phyB-mediated low-fluence response and the phyA-mediated very-low-fluence response have a major peak at 650 nm and a minor peak at 400 nm.
17029776	The efficiency of four different composting processes to bioremediate polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)-contaminated sewage sludge was investigated. Prior to composting, sewage sludge coming from the Datansha wastewater treatment plant, Guangzhou, China, was mixed with rice straw to obtain a C/N ratio of 13:1. After 56 days of composting, the total concentrations of 16 PAHs (Sigma(PAHs)) ranged from 1.8 to 10.2 mg kg(-1) dry weight, decreasing in order of inoculated-manual turned compost (IMTC)>manual turned compost (MTC)>continuous aerated compost (CAC)>intermittent aerated compost (IAC), exhibiting removal rates of 64%, 70%, 85% and 94%, respectively. Individual PAHs were generally removed in similar rates. IAC treatment showed a higher removal rate of high molecular weight PAHs and carcinogenic PAHs comparing to the other composting processes.
17029791	Samples of rice husks and corn cobs were subjected to hydrothermal treatments in aqueous media under conditions leading to maximal xylooligomer concentration, and the reaction liquors were extracted with dichloromethane (DCM) to assess the type and amount of reaction byproducts with potential application as food ingredients and cosmetics. The identified DCM-soluble compounds were classified in four categories (sugar-derived compounds, lignin-derived compounds, nitrogen-containing compounds and fatty acids). The experimental results were compared with literature data.
17029792	A study on the preparation of rice bran-based activated carbon was conducted, with and without an acid treatment step prior the activation process. The influence of the activation time on the structure of the activated carbons was evaluated. The acid treatment had a significant positive influence on sorption properties. The rice bran-activated carbon presented a BET surface area of 652m(2)g(-1) and a pore volume of 0.137cm(3)g(-1), with mesopores predominance (ca. 55%). These experimental results indicated the potential use of rice bran as a precursor in the activated carbon preparation process, thus representing an economically promising material.
17029984	Plant chitinases are pathogenesis-related proteins, which are believed to be involved in plant defense responses to pathogen infection. In this study, chitinase gene from barley was cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. Chitinase (35 kDa) was isolated and purified. Since the protein was produced as insoluble inclusion bodies, the protein was solubilized and refolded. Purified chitinase exerted broad-spectrum antifungal activity against Botrytis cinerea (blight of tobacco), Pestalotia theae (leaf spot of tea), Bipolaris oryzae (brown spot of rice), Alternaria sp. (grain discoloration of rice), Curvularia lunata (leaf spot of clover) and Rhizoctonia solani (sheath blight of rice). Due to the potential of broad-spectrum antifungal activity barley chitinase gene can be used to enhance fungal-resistance in crop plants such as rice, tobacco, tea and clover.
17030589	We propose drug screening designs based on a Bayesian decision-theoretic approach. The discussion is motivated by screening designs for phase II studies. The proposed screening designs allow consideration of multiple treatments simultaneously. In each period, new treatments can arise and currently considered treatments can be dropped. Once a treatment is removed from the phase II screening trial, a terminal decision is made about abandoning the treatment or recommending it for a future confirmatory phase III study. The decision about dropping treatments from the active set is a sequential stopping decision. We propose a solution based on decision boundaries in the space of marginal posterior moments for the unknown parameter of interest that relates to each treatment. We present a Monte Carlo simulation algorithm to implement the proposed approach. We provide an implementation of the proposed method as an easy to use R library available for public domain download (http://www.stat.rice.edu/~rusi/ or http://odin.mdacc.tmc.edu/~pm/).
17031029	Transcripts of thionin genes encoding antimicrobial peptides were present at a high level in rice coleoptiles just after germination, and decreased to an undetectable level after about 3 d, but this decline was suppressed by co-treatment with gibberellic acid (GA(3)) and brassinolide (BL). The temporal expression patterns of key enzyme genes for the biosyntheses of gibberellins (GAs) and brassinosteroids (BRs) were correlated with the fluctuation of thionin mRNAs. Jasmonic acid (JA) replaced the effect of GA3 and BL, and its change in endogenous level was parallel to that of the thionin genes. These results strongly suggest that thionin gene expression was positively regulated by JA, whose endogenous level was synergistically regulated by GAs and BRs. In contrast, thionin gene expression in etiolated seedlings remained high while the endogenous level of JA was low, suggesting the presence of another signaling pathway in the dark to maintain the thionin level.
17031545	Methionine oxidation to methionine sulfoxide (MetSo), which results in modification of activity and conformation for many proteins, is reversed by an enzyme present in most organisms and termed as methionine sulfoxide reductase (MSR). On the basis of substrate stereospecificity, two types of MSR, A and B, that do not share any sequence similarity, have been identified. In the present review, we first compare the multigenic MSR families in the three plant species for which the genome is fully sequenced: Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, and Populus trichocarpa. The MSR gene content is larger in A. thaliana (five MSRAs and nine MSRBs) compared to P. trichocarpa (five MSRAs and four MSRBs) and O. sativa (four MSRAs and three MSRBs). A complete classification based on gene structure, sequence identity, position of conserved reactive cysteines and predicted subcellular localization is proposed. On the basis of in silico and experimental data originating mainly from Arabidopsis, we report that some MSR genes display organ-specific expression patterns and that those encoding plastidic MSRs are highly expressed in photosynthetic organs. We also show that the expression of numerous MSR genes is enhanced by environmental conditions known to generate oxidative stress. Thioredoxins (TRXs) constitute very likely physiological electron donors to plant MSR proteins for the catalysis of MetSO reduction, but the specificity between the numerous TRXs and methionine sulfoxide reductases (MSRs) present in plants remains to be investigated. The essential role of plant MSRs in protection against oxidative damage has been recently demonstrated on transgenic Arabidopsis plants modified in the content of cytosolic or plastidic MSRA.
17031546	The availability of the Arabidopsis genome revealed the complexity of the gene families implicated in dithiol disulfide exchanges. Most non-green organisms present less dithiol oxidoreductase genes. The availability of the almost complete genome sequence of rice now allows a systematic search for thioredoxins, glutaredoxins and their reducers. This shows that all redoxin families previously defined for Arabidopsis have members in the rice genome and that all the deduced rice redoxins fall within these families. This establishes that the redoxin classification applies both to dicots and monocots. Nevertheless, within each redoxin type the number of members is not the same in these two higher plants and it is not always possible to define orthologues between rice and Arabidopsis. The sequencing of two unicellular algae (Chlamydomonas and Ostreococcus) genomes are almost finished. This allowed us to follow the origin of the different gene families in the green lineage. It appears that most thioredoxin and glutaredoxin types, their chloroplastic, mitochondrial and cytosolic reducers are always present in these unicellular organisms. Nevertheless, striking differences appear in comparison to higher plant redoxins. Some thioredoxin types are not present in these algal genomes including thioredoxins o, clot and glutaredoxins CCxC. Numerous redoxins, including the cytosolic thioredoxins, do not fit with the corresponding higher plant classification. In addition both algae present a NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase with a selenocysteine which is highly similar to the animal thioredoxin reductases, a type of thioredoxin reductase not present in higher plants.
17031651	Fusarium head blight (FHB) is a devastating disease of small grain cereal crops caused by the necrotrophic pathogen Fusarium graminearum and Fusarium culmorum. These fungi produce the trichothecene mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON) and its derivatives, which enhance the disease development during their interactions with host plants. For the self-protection, the trichothecene producer Fusarium species have Tri101 encoding trichothecene 3-O-acetyltransferase. Although transgenic expression of Tri101 significantly reduced inhibitory action of DON on tobacco plants, there are several conflicting observations regarding the phytotoxicity of 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-ADON) to cereal plants; 3-ADON was reported to be highly phytotoxic to wheat at low concentrations. To examine whether cereal plants show sufficient resistance to 3-ADON, we generated transgenic rice plants with stable expression and inheritance of Tri101. While root growth of wild-type rice plants was severely inhibited by DON in the medium, this fungal toxin was not phytotoxic to the transgenic lines that showed trichothecene 3-O-acetylation activity. This is the first report demonstrating the DON acetylase activity and DON-resistant phenotype of cereal plants expressing the fungal gene.
17032012	This paper reports the structure and properties of novel long natural cellulose fibers obtained from rice straw. Rice straw fibers have 64% cellulose with 63% crystalline cellulose, strength of 3.5 g/denier (450 MPa), elongation of 2.2%, and modulus of 200 g/denier (26 GPa), similar to that of linen fibers. The rice straw fibers reported here have better properties than any other natural cellulose fiber obtained from an agricultural byproduct. With a worldwide annual availability of 580 million tons, rice straw is an annually renewable, abundant, and cheap source for natural cellulose fibers. Using rice straw for high-value fibrous applications will help to add value to the rice crops, provide a sustainable resource for fibers, and also benefit the environment.
17032019	The content of gamma-oryzanol and the composition of steryl ferulates were determined in brown rice of European origin using on-line coupled liquid chromatography-gas chromatography (LC-GC). Analysis of 30 brown rice samples of various cultivars, grown at different sites and in different seasons, revealed the gamma-oryzanol content to range from 26 to 63 mg/100 g. Cycloartenyl ferulate and 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate were the major components of gamma-oryzanol followed by campesteryl ferulate, campestanyl ferulate, and beta-sitosteryl ferulate. The proportions of individual steryl ferulates exhibited enormous variability. However, irrespectively of the great variations observed for single steryl ferulates, the proportions of the sum of 4,4'-dimethylsteryl ferulates (cycloartenyl ferulate, 24-methylenecycloartanyl ferulate) and the sum of 4-desmethylsteryl ferulates (campesteryl ferulate, campestanyl ferulate, and beta-sitosteryl ferulate) were rather constant. The significant natural variability observed for gamma-oryzanol content and composition of steryl ferulates were shown to be influenced by environmental conditions but not by the degree of maturity of rice grains.
17032027	A rapid method employing static headspace gas chromatography (HS-GC) has been developed and validated for quantitative analysis of the impact aroma compound, 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), in grains of fragrant rice. This developed method excludes wet extraction, and the rice headspace volatiles are brought directly and automatically to GC analysis. The conditions of the static HS autosampler were optimized to achieve high recovery and sensitivity. The most effective amount of rice sample used was 1 g, which provided 51% recovery and a linear multiple headspace extraction (MHE) plot of the peak area of 2AP. The sensitivity of the method was enhanced by utilizing a megabore fused silica capillary column in conjunction with a nitrogen-phosphorus detector (NPD). Method validations performed for both static HS-GC-FID and HS-GC-NPD demonstrated linear calibration ranges of 20-10 000 (r(2) = 0.9997) and 5-8000 (r(2) = 0.9998) ng of 2AP/g of rice sample, respectively. The limits of detection for both systems were 20 and 5 ng of 2AP, and the limits of quantitation were 0.30 and 0.01 g of brown rice sample, respectively. Reproducibility calculated as intraday and interday coefficients of variation were 3.25% RSD (n = 15) and 3.92% RSD (n = 35), respectively, for SHS-GC-FID and 1.87% RSD (n = 15) and 2.85% RSD (n = 35), respectively, for SHS-GC-NPD. The method was found to be effective when applied to the evaluation of aroma quality, based on 2AP concentrations, of some fragrant rice samples.
17032619	Vitamin C (l-ascorbate) is important for antioxidative and metabolic functions in both plants and humans. Ascorbate itself is oxidized to dehydroascorbate during the process of antioxidation, and dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR, EC 1.8.5.1) re-reduces the oxidized ascorbate. Therefore, this enzyme is assumed to be critical for ascorbate recycling. Here we show that the expression of rice DHAR in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana enhanced resistance to salt stress. Salt tolerance was remarkably improved despite slight increases in DHAR activity and total ascorbate. This study provides direct evidence for the importance of DHAR in salt tolerance.
17033054	A reliable and efficient genetic transformation protocol for various turfgrass species and elite cultivars has been achieved using Agrobacterium tumefaciens. We describe a general protocol for the establishment of embryogenic cell cultures, Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation, selection, and regeneration of transgenic turfgrass plants. Embryogenic callus is initiated from mature seeds, maintained by visual selection, and infected with an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain (LBA4404) that contains either an herbicide-resistant bar gene or an antibiotic-resistant hyg gene driven either by a rice ubiquitin or CaMV35S promoter. Stable transformation efficiencies up to 43.3% were achieved. Southern blot and genetic analysis was used to confirm transgene integration in the turfgrass genomes and normal transmission and stable expression of the transgene in the T1 generation. We demonstrate herein that five elite cultivars of bentgrass can be genetically transformed using this single tissue culture media regime. Additionally, we report the successful Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of an elite tall fescue variety using minor variations in the same transformation protocol.
17033649
17033811	Proteins with the A20/AN1 zinc-finger domain are present in all eukaryotes and are well characterized in animals, but little is known about their function in plants. Earlier, we have identified an A20/AN1 zinc-finger containing stress associated protein 1 gene (SAP1) in rice and validated its function in abiotic stress tolerance. In this study, genome-wide survey of genes encoding proteins possessing A20/AN1 zinc-finger, named SAP gene family, has been carried out in rice and Arabidopsis. The genomic distribution and gene architecture as well as domain structure and phylogenetic relationship of encoded proteins numbering 18 and 14 in rice and Arabidopsis, respectively, have been studied. Expression analysis of the rice SAP family was done to investigate their response under abiotic stress conditions. All the genes were inducible by one or the other abiotic stresses indicating that the OsSAP gene family is an important component of stress response in rice. Manipulation of their expression and identification of their superior alleles should help confer stress tolerance in target crops.
17035185	Segregation distortion is a quite common phenomenon in living species and thought to be a potent evolutional force. The main reasons of distorted segregation ratios are responsible for the selection of gametes or sporophytes. In this study, two extreme segregation distortions from the progenies of lmi x 02428 and d6 x 93-11 were identified. The segregation ratio of molecular markers tightly linked with LMI and D6 genes were analyzed and skew segregation were found in the markers tested which were indicated by significant deviation from the expected Mendelian segregation ratio(1:2:1). The segregation distorted regions were detected between molecular markers ST8 and ST8-2 near the centromere of chromosome 8, and ST7-1 and ST7-3 near telomere of chromosome 7, respectively. Meanwhile, the results indicated that segregation distortion had related with the different crossed combinations.
17035191	Based on the protein databases of several model species, this study developed a new method of the Genome-wide prediction for the target genes, using Hidden Markov model by Perl programming. The advantages of this method are high throughput, high quality and easy prediction, especially in the case of multi-domains proteins families. By this method, we predicted the PPR and TPR proteins families in whole genome of several model species. There were 536 PPR proteins and 199 TPR proteins in Oryza sativa ssp. japonica, 519 PPR proteins and 177 TPR proteins in Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica, 735 PPR proteins and 292 TPR proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana, 6 PPR proteins and 32 TPR proteins in Cyanidioschyzon merolae. Synechococcus and Thermophilic archaebacterium did not have PPR proteins. By contrast, 10 TPR proteins were found in Synechococcus and 4 TPR proteins were found in Thermophilic archaebacterium. Moreover, of these results, some further bioinformatics analyses were conducted.
17035284	Rain-fed lowland rice commonly encounters stresses from fluctuating water regimes and nutrient deficiency. Roots have to acquire both oxygen and nutrients under adverse conditions while also acclimating to changes in soil-water regime. This study assessed responses of rice roots to low phosphorus supply in aerated and stagnant nutrient solution. Rice (Oryza sativa 'Amaroo') was grown in aerated solution with high P (200 micro m) for 14 d, then transferred to high or low (1.6 micro m) P supply in aerated or stagnant solution for up to 8 d. After only 1 d in stagnant conditions, root radial oxygen loss (ROL) had decreased by 90 % in subapical zones, whereas near the tip ROL was maintained. After 4 d in stagnant conditions, maximum root length was 11 % less, and after 8 d, shoot growth was 25 % less, compared with plants in aerated solution. The plants in stagnant solution had up to 19 % more adventitious roots, 24 % greater root porosity and 26 % higher root/shoot ratio. Rice in low P supply had fewer tillers in both stagnant and aerated conditions. After 1-2 d in stagnant solution, relative P uptake declined, especially at low P supply. Aerated roots at low P supply maintained relative P uptake for 4 d, after which uptake decreased to the same levels as in stagnant solution. Roots responded rapidly to oxygen deficiency with decreased ROL in subapical zones within 1-2 d, indicating induction of a barrier to ROL, and these changes in ROL occurred at least 2 d before any changes in root morphology, porosity or anatomy were evident. Relative P uptake also decreased under oxygen deficiency, showing that a sudden decline in root-zone oxygen adversely affects P nutrition of rice.
17035354	Eukaryotic gene fusion and fission events are mechanistically more complicated than in prokaryotes, and their quantitative contributions to genome evolution are still poorly understood. We have identified all differentially composite or split genes in 2 fully sequenced plant genomes, Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana. Out of 10,172 orthologous gene pairs, 60 (0.6% of the total) revealed a verified fusion or fission event in either lineage after the divergence of O. sativa and A. thaliana. Polarizing these events by outgroup comparison revealed differences in the rate of gene fission but not of gene fusion in the rice and Arabidopsis lineages. Gene fission occurred at a higher rate than gene fusion in the O. sativa lineage and was furthermore more common in rice than in Arabidopsis. Nucleotide insertion bias has promoted gene fission in the O. sativa lineage, consistent with its generally longer nucleotide sequences than A. thaliana in selectively neutral regions, and with the abundance of transposable elements in rice. The divergence time of monocots and dicots (140-200 Myr) indicates that gene fusion/fission events occur at an average rate of 1x10(-11) to 2x10(-11) events per gene per year, approximately 100-fold slower than the average per site nuclear nucleotide substitution rate in these lineages. Gene fusion and fission are thus rare and slow processes in higher plant genomes; they should be of utility to address deeper evolutionary relationships among plants--and the relationship of plants to other eukaryotic lineages--where sequence-based phylogenies provide equivocal or conflicting results.
17036061	We analyzed host-species specificity of Magnaporthe grisea on rice using 110 F1 progeny derived from a cross between the Oryza isolate CH87 (pathogenic to rice) and the Digitaria isolate 6023 (pathogenic to crabgrass). To elucidate the genetic mechanisms controlling species specificity in M. grisea, we performed a genetic analysis of species-specific avirulence on this rice population. Avirulent and virulent progeny segregated in a 1:1 ratio on the 2 rice cultivars 'Lijiangxintuanheigu' (LTH) and 'Shin2', suggesting that a single locus, designated PRE1, was involved in the specificity. In a combination between 'Kusabue' and 'Tsuyuake', the segregation of the 4 possible phenotypes of F1 progeny was significantly different from the expected 3:1:3:1 and instead fit a ratio of 2:0:1:1. This indicated that 2 loci, PRE1 and AVR2, were involved in specific parasitism on rice. These results suggest that the species specificity of M. grisea on rice is governed by species-dependent genetic mechanisms that are similar to the gene-for-gene interactions controlling cultivar specificity. Pathogenicity tests with various plant species revealed that the Digitaria isolate 6023 was exclusively parasitic on crabgrass. Genetic linkage analysis showed that PRE1 was mapped on chromosome 3 with respect to RAPD and SSR markers. RAPD marker S361 was linked to the avirulence gene at a distance of ~6.4 cM. Two SSR markers, m677-678 and m77-78, were linked to the PRE1 gene on M. grisea chromosome 3 at distances of 5.9 and 7.1 cM, respectively. Our results will facilitate positional cloning and functional studies of this gene.
17036065	A computer-based analysis was conducted to assess the characteristics of amino acid repeats in Arabidopsis and rice. Our analysis showed a negative gradient in amino acid repeat distribution along the direction of translation in plants. Repeat occurrences are obviously associated with position in plant proteins but are not consistent with the corresponding amino acid contents. These repeats are encoded by the mixed synonymous codons rather than the uninterrupted reiterations of a single codon, and both Arabidopsis and rice have gradients in their distribution. Functional investigation showed that these repeat-containing proteins are preferentially involved in transcription regulation and protein ubiquitination but significantly underrepresented in the processes of DNA recombination and DNA replication. These data reveal that the direction-related mutation bias and functional selection have influenced the distribution of amino acid repeats in plants.
17036076	A novel floral organ mutant of rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. indica), termed pistilloid-stamen (ps) here, has flowers with degenerated lemma and palea, with some stamens transformed into pistils and pistil-stamen chimeras. Genetic analysis confirmed that the ps trait is controlled by a single recessive gene. F2 and F3 segregation populations derived from PS ps heterozygote crossed with Oryza sativa subsp. indica 'Luhui-17' (PS PS) were used for molecular mapping of the gene using simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. With 97 recessive individuals from an F2 segregation population, the ps locus was preliminarily mapped 6.2 cM distal to marker RM6324 and 3.1 cM proximal to marker RM6340 in the terminal region of the short arm of chromosome 1. With a large F3 segregation population, the gene was fine-mapped between markers RM6470 and RM1141, at distances of 0.10 and 0.03 cM to each marker, respectively. The position of the ps gene was finally located within a 20 kb physical region containing 3 annotated putative genes. One of them, encoding a protein with a single C2H2 zinc-finger domain, may be the candidate gene for PS.
17036080	Using pseudomolecules of assembled genomic sequence, we computed the frequencies of 6 to 24 bp oligonucleotide (oligo) "words" across the genome of rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica). All oligos of 10 or fewer basepairs were repeated at least 12 times in the genome. The percentage of unique (non-repeated) oligos ranged from 0.1% for 12 bp oligos to 76.0% for 24 bp oligos. For three 200 kb regions, we annotated each nucleotide position with the genome-wide frequency of the 18 bp oligo starting at that position. These frequencies formed landscapes consisting of high- and low-frequency zones. Low-frequency zones contained occasional high-frequency spikes; these may represent footprints of RIM2 transposon activity. BLASTn searches of high-frequency non-SSR (simple sequence repeat) 18 bp oligos returned few sequences from species other than rice. These results demonstrate that, in rice, words are not randomly used between different regions within the same genome, and indicate that words that are frequently repeated within the rice genome tend to be unique to rice.
17036262	Cereals naturally contain a great variety of polyphenols, which exert a wide range of physiological effects both in vitro and in vivo. Many of their protective effects, including an improvement of the function and redox state of immune cells in unhealthy or aged subjects come from their properties as powerful antioxidant compounds. However, whether cereal-based dietary supplementation positively affects the immune function and cellular redox state of healthy subjects remains unclear. To investigate the effects of supplementation (20% wt/wt) for 5 weeks with four different cereal fractions on healthy mice. Several parameters of function and redox state of peritoneal leukocytes were measured. The cereals, named B (wheat germ), C (buckwheat flour), D (fine rice bran) and E (wheat middlings) contained different amounts of gallic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, sinapic acid, p-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, quercetin, catechin, rutin and oryzanol as major polyphenols. In general, all cereal fractions caused an improvement of the leukocyte parameters studied such as chemotaxis capacity, microbicidal activity, lymphoproliferative response to mitogens, interleukin-2 (IL-2) and tumor necrosis factor (TNFalpha) release, as well as oxidized glutathione (GSSG), GSSG/GSH ratio, catalase (CAT) activity and lipid oxidative damage. We observed similar effects among the cereal fractions. The results suggest that some of these effects may due, at least partially, to the antioxidant activity of the polyphenols naturally present in cereals. Since an appropriate function of the leukocytes has been proposed as marker of the health state, a short-term intake of cereals seems to be sufficient to exert a benefit in the health of the general population. However, further studies are needed to assess the optimal doses and to find out which active polyphenols are able to mediate the observed physiological effects before recommending their regular consumption.
17036840	This study was done to assess the risk of helminth infection in association with wastewater-fed rice cultivation in an agricultural setting of Nam Dinh city, Vietnam. In a cross sectional survey data were collected for 202 households in a commune where wastewater was used for irrigation and for 201 households in a commune that used river water. Parasitological examination was conducted on single stool samples obtained from 1,088 individuals aged -15 years from the households. The irrigation water used in both communes was enumerated for helminth eggs and thermotolerant coliforms. The prevalence of infection with Ascaris spp., Trichuris spp., and hookworm was 42.2%, 19.9% and 10.5% respectively, with an overall prevalence of infection with any helminth of 53.4%. Surprisingly, the prevalence of infection with Ascaris and Trichuris was lower among people exposed to wastewater (containing 40-200 helminth eggs/l and 10(4) thermotolerant coliforms/100 ml) compared to people exposed to river water that contained lower worm egg and bacterial numbers. Poor sanitation and hygiene practices and not using protective measures were important independent risk factors for helminth infection. For hookworm infection, no significant difference was observed between the wastewater exposed and unexposed groups. Children living in the wastewater use area had a significantly better nutritional status than those in the area using river water. This suggests a generally higher welfare level of the wastewater use area. In conclusion, this study showed no evidence that rice cultivation with wastewater poses a risk for helminth infection. More detailed studies are needed on the reduction of fecal indicators and helminth eggs in peri-urban wastewater-irrigated rice culture systems and on the relative importance of wastewater irrigation compared to other risk factors for human helminth infection such as poor sanitation and poverty.
17038171	The identification of chromosomal homology will shed light on such mysteries of genome evolution as DNA duplication, rearrangement and loss. Several approaches have been developed to detect chromosomal homology based on gene synteny or colinearity. However, the previously reported implementations lack statistical inferences which are essential to reveal actual homologies. In this study, we present a statistical approach to detect homologous chromosomal segments based on gene colinearity. We implement this approach in a software package ColinearScan to detect putative colinear regions using a dynamic programming algorithm. Statistical models are proposed to estimate proper parameter values and evaluate the significance of putative homologous regions. Statistical inference, high computational efficiency and flexibility of input data type are three key features of our approach. We apply ColinearScan to the Arabidopsis and rice genomes to detect duplicated regions within each species and homologous fragments between these two species. We find many more homologous chromosomal segments in the rice genome than previously reported. We also find many small colinear segments between rice and Arabidopsis genomes.
17039589
17040561	Natural antisense transcripts (NATs) are coding or non-coding RNAs with sequence complementarity to other transcripts (sense transcripts). These RNAs could potentially regulate the expression of their sense partner(s) at either the transcriptional or post-transcriptional level. Experimental and computational methods have demonstrated the widespread occurrence of NATs in eukaryotes. However, most previous studies only focused on cis-NATs with little attention being paid to NATs that originate in trans. We have performed a genome-wide screen of trans-NATs in Arabidopsis thaliana and identified 1,320 putative trans-NAT pairs. An RNA annealing program predicted that most trans-NATs could form extended double-stranded RNA duplexes with their sense partners. Among trans-NATs with available expression data, more than 85% were found in the same tissue as their sense partners; of these, 67% were found in the same cell as their sense partners at comparable expression levels. For about 60% of Arabidopsis trans-NATs, orthologs of at least one transcript of the pair also had trans-NAT partners in either Populus trichocarpa or Oryza sativa. The observation that 430 transcripts had both putative cis- and trans-NATs implicates multiple regulations by antisense transcripts. The potential roles of trans-NATs in inducing post-transcriptional gene silencing and in regulating alternative splicing were also examined. The Arabidopsis transcriptome contains a fairly large number of trans-NATs, whose possible functions include silencing of the corresponding sense transcripts or altering their splicing patterns. The interlaced relationships observed in some cis- and trans-NAT pairs suggest that antisense transcripts could be involved in complex regulatory networks in eukaryotes.
17041027	Geminivirus Rep-interacting kinase 1 (GRIK1) and GRIK2 constitute a small protein kinase family in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). An earlier study showed that a truncated version of GRIK1 binds to the geminivirus replication protein AL1. We show here both full-length GRIK1 and GRIK2 interact with AL1 in yeast two-hybrid studies. Using specific antibodies, we showed that both Arabidopsis kinases are elevated in infected leaves. Immunoblot analysis of healthy plants revealed that GRIK1 and GRIK2 are highest in young leaf and floral tissues and low or undetectable in mature tissues. Immunohistochemical staining showed that the kinases accumulate in the shoot apical meristem, leaf primordium, and emerging petiole. Unlike the protein patterns, GRIK1 and GRIK2 transcript levels only show a small increase during infection and do not change significantly during development. Treating healthy seedlings and infected leaves with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 resulted in higher GRIK1 and GRIK2 protein levels, whereas treatment with the translation inhibitor cycloheximide reduced both kinases, demonstrating that their accumulation is modulated by posttranscriptional processes. Phylogenetic comparisons indicated that GRIK1, GRIK2, and related kinases from Medicago truncatula and rice (Oryza sativa) are most similar to the yeast kinases PAK1, TOS3, and ELM1 and the mammalian kinase CaMKK, which activate the yeast kinase SNF1 and its mammalian homolog AMPK, respectively. Complementation studies using a PAK1/TOS3/ELM1 triple mutant showed that GRIK1 and GRIK2 can functionally replace the yeast kinases, suggesting that the Arabidopsis kinases mediate one or more processes during early plant development and geminivirus infection by activating SNF1-related kinases.
17041148	The Tc1/mariner transposable element superfamily is widely distributed in animal and plant genomes. However, no active plant element has been previously identified. Nearly identical copies of a rice (Oryza sativa) Tc1/mariner element called Osmar5 in the genome suggested potential activity. Previous studies revealed that Osmar5 encoded a protein that bound specifically to its own ends. In this report, we show that Osmar5 is an active transposable element by demonstrating that expression of its coding sequence in yeast promotes the excision of a nonautonomous Osmar5 element located in a reporter construct. Element excision produces transposon footprints, whereas element reinsertion occurs at TA dinucleotides that were either tightly linked or unlinked to the excision site. Several site-directed mutations in the transposase abolished activity, whereas mutations in the transposase binding site prevented transposition of the nonautonomous element from the reporter construct. This report of an active plant Tc1/mariner in yeast will provide a foundation for future comparative analyses of animal and plant elements in addition to making a new wide host range transposable element available for plant gene tagging.
1704196	Substances that are insoluble in both water and lipids, such as starch, are commonly assumed to be tasteless. Starch was suspended in water with a viscous gum. Rats given a choice of fluid containing starch and the same fluid without starch consistently preferred fluids containing starch. Rats were able to detect as little as 0.5% starch from several species of plants (corn, rice, wheat, and potato). In contrast, rats ignored comparable concentrations of cellulose suspended in water. Rats were also capable of choosing the fluid containing higher levels of starch when given a choice of 1 vs. 2% starch or 0.5 vs. 1% starch. This ability to detect starch did not appear to be mediated by salivary alpha-amylase because 1) raw starch is highly resistant to hydrolysis by salivary amylase, 2) starch preference was not correlated with the susceptibility of the starch to hydrolysis by salivary amylase, and 3) starch preference was not blocked by partial or extensive desalivation. Attempts to extract impurities with either organic solvents or water did not provide any evidence that such impurities contribute to starch preference. These experiments point to a seemingly novel form of chemoreception that could be useful to animals that need to identify starch-rich foods.
17043831	The methanolic extract of Monascus purpureus cultivated by solid-state fermentation on rice showed strong 2, 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity and better yield as compared to other polarity based extracted fractions. It was selected for further purification of the antioxidant. The activity-guided repeated fractionation of methanolic extract on a silica gel column chromatography yielded a compound that exhibited strong antioxidant activity. Based on the spectroscopic analysis by UV, IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, 2D-HSQCT NMR, and MS, the antioxidant isolated was elucidated as a derivative of dihydromonacolin-K, where the ester group is 2-methyl propionate, designated as dihydromonacolin-MV. The DPPH radical was significantly scavenged by the dihydromonacolin-MV (IC50 20+/-1 microg ml-1). The dihydromonacolin-MV showed strong inhibition of lipid peroxidation in a liposome model with an IC50 value of 5.71+/-0.38 microg ml-1 and superoxide radical scavenging activity with an IC50 value of 163.97+/-2.68 microg ml-1.
17044063	Present in most organisms, hexacoordinate hemoglobins (hxHbs) are proteins that have evolved the capacity for reversible bis-histidyl heme coordination. The heme prosthetic group enables diverse protein functionality, such as electron transfer, redox reactions, ligand transport, and enzymatic catalysis. The reactivity of heme is greatly effected by the coordination and noncovalent chemical environment imposed by its connate protein. Of considerable interest is how the hxHb globin fold achieves reversible intramolecular coordination while still enabling high-affinity binding of oxygen, nitric oxide, and other small ligands. Here we explore this question by examining the role of the protein matrix on coordination behavior in a group of hxHbs from animals, plants, and bacteria, including human neuroglobin and cytoglobin, a nonsymbiotic hemoglobin from rice, and a truncated hemoglobin from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis. This is done with a set of experiments measuring the reduction potentials of each wild-type hxHb and its corresponding mutant protein where the reversibly bound histidine (the distal His) has been replaced with a noncoordinating side chain. These reduction potentials, coupled with studies of the mutant proteins saturated with exogenous imidazole, enable us to assess the effects of the protein matrices on histidine coordination. Our results show significant variation among the hxHbs, demonstrating flexibility in the globin moiety's ability to regulate reversible coordination. This regulation is particularly evident in the plant nonsymbiotic hemoglobins, where ferric state histidine coordination affinity is substantially lowered by the protein matrix.
17044492	To examine the effects of nitrogen (N) supply and water stress on rice grain yield and its quality, a pot experiment was conducted at Yangzhou University. Three rice cultivars were grown under two N levels (high N and normal N) from initial heading, and two water conditions (well watering and water stress) were installed for each of the two N levels from flowering to maturity. The results showed that when the plants of test cultivars were grown under normal N level, water stress markedly reduced the grain-filling percentage and grain weight, resulting in a significant decrease of grain yield by 11.6% to approximately 14.7%. Though the head-milled rice had a slight increase, the percentage of chalkiness was significantly increased by 18.7% to approximately 33.1%, which resulted in an inferior performance in grain-apparent quality. In contrast, when the plants were grown under high N level, water stress increased the grain yield by 18. 8% to approximately 22.2% because of the increase of grain-filling percentage and grain weight. As compared with well watering, water stress decreased the percentages of chalky grain and chalkiness by 15.3% to approximately 37.2% and 13.7% to 29.9%, respectively, which improved the performance of grain-apparent quality. The pronounced effects of N application and water treatment were observed on the RVA profile and cooked quality. Under both two N levels, water stress decreased the peak viscosity and breakdown (except for Yangdao 6) while increased the setback. According to the performance in the indices of cooked quality, the palatability became poor when subjected to water stress under normal N level, as the result of the increase of hardness and cohesiveness. In contrast, under high N level, water stress availed the ascending of viscosity at the early stage when rice flours were pasting, peak viscosity and breakdown were increased, and setback was decreased, suggesting that the palpability got well. It was concluded that mild water stress during grain-filling period was benefit for the development of high quality grain when rice plants were grown under high N level.
17044517	The ongoing increasing of atmospheric CO2 has become a hot topic in the last two decades due to its profound impact on crop growth and development. Oryza sativa L. (rice) is one of the most important crops in the world and the first food in China. This paper reviewed the results based on chamber-based experiments, mainly focused on the effects of free-air carbon dioxide enrichment (FACE) on the photosynthesis, water relationship, growth stage, leaf and root growth, dry matter production and distribution, chemical composition, and grain yield and quality of rice crop. The further research directions in this field were discussed.
17045374	A three-step sequential extraction procedure was applied to measure the concentrations of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) on rice root surface and in root tissues collected from two sites in Tianjin. Bulk and rhizosphere soils were also analyzed. The measured DDXs in the rhizosphere soils were significantly higher than those in the bulk soils. On average, p,p'-DDT, p,p'-DDD, and p,p'-DDE in the soil accounted for 38%, 47% and 15% of the total. For total DDXs, approximately one third remained on the outer surface of the roots. The partition of DDXs between rhizosphere soil and root surface depend on contaminant affinity to soil organic matter, soil organic matter content and root specific area. A case specific equation was developed to quantitatively describe the partition of DDXs between soil and root surface.
17046246	A mixture of fly ash and phospho-gypsum (50:50, wtwt(-1)) was selected to study its potential to supply Ca and Si to rice while reducing B toxicity. We expected that the high Ca content in this mixture might convert water-soluble P to less soluble forms and thereby reduce the loss of soil P to surface runoff. The mixture was applied at rates of 0, 20, 40, and 60 Mgha(-1) in two paddy soils of contrasting textures (silt loam in Yehari and loamy sand in Daegok). The mixture significantly reduced water-soluble phosphate (W-P) in the surface soils by shifting from W-P and iron bound-P (Fe-P) to calcium bound-P (Ca-P) and aluminum bound-P (Al-P) during rice cultivation in both soils. Lancaster and Mehlich 3 extractable P increased significantly with application rate due to high contents of P and Si in the mixture. Mixtures of fly ash and phospho-gypsum should reduce P loss from rice paddy soils and increase soil fertility.
17046759	We identified 27 genes induced by combined sucrose and ABA treatment from rice cultured cells with cDNA-AFLP. Thirteen of these up-regulated genes were induced 30 min after the co-treatment. This suite of genes includes starch biosynthesis related genes. Type A genes were expressed only in the presence of both sucrose and ABA. Type B genes were expressed in the presence of sucrose or ABA and the expression was dramatically enhanced by the co-treatment of sucrose and ABA. These results indicate that multiple steps of starch biosynthesis and other processes may be regulated by at least two different pathways.
17047144	To review the literature on select alternative therapies for the management of dyslipidemia. Searches of MEDLINE and PubMed (1965-March 2006) were conducted using the key terms omega-3-fatty acids, policosanol, plant stanols and sterols, flaxseed, red yeast rice, guggulipid, garlic, fiber, almonds, and cholesterol and/or lipids. Meta-analyses, published in English and involving adults, that incorporated randomized, controlled trials on alternative therapies for dyslipidemia were reviewed. Additionally, trials published subsequent to the meta-analyses were reviewed. Articles deemed relevant were included in this review. Of the aforementioned alternative therapies, randomized controlled trials were found for omega-3-fatty acids, policosanol, plant stanols and sterols, flaxseed, red yeast rice, guggulipid, garlic, fiber, almonds, and soy. Studies for each of these agents report varying degrees of lipid reduction. Based on published data, effective therapeutic options for lipid-lowering include intake of fiber, intake of plant stanols/sterols, replacement of animal protein with soy protein, and substitution of foods high in saturated fat with those with monounsaturated fatty acids (eg, dry roasted almonds). Adding omega-3-fatty acids is effective for reducing triglycerides in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. Well-designed studies with long-term outcome data are necessary to further define the role for guggul, red yeast rice, policosanol, garlic, and flaxseed in the management of dyslipidemia. Alternative therapeutic approaches with complementary therapies are becoming increasingly popular among patients. It is important for healthcare providers to be familiar with the safety and efficacy of these agents to facilitate optimal outcomes for patients with dyslipidemia.
1704772	INAA has been used for the determination of Na, Mg, Al, Cl, K, Sc, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Cu, Zn, As, Se, Br, Rb, Sr, Mo, and W in grains of rice, wheat, and barley, which were collected from different plant fields in Iraq. Samples and standards were irradiated in the IRT-5000 reactor, at neutron fluxes of 2 x 10(13) cm-2.s-1 and 3.2 x 10(11) cm-2.s-1. Interferences of photopeaks with each other were considered, and reaction interferences were calculated and determined experimentally. Accuracy of our method was assessed by the analysis of IAEA standards Wheat Flour and Bovine liver. A good agreement has been achieved between the present results and recommended values. The precision and detection limit were determined for all elements in all types of grain.
17047755	The effects of collision energy (Ecol) and five different modes of H2CO+ vibration on the title reaction have been studied over the center-of-mass Ecol range from 0.1 to 3.2 eV, including measurements of product ion recoil velocity distributions. Electronic structure and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations were used to examine properties of various complexes and transition states that might be important along the reaction coordinate. Two product channels are observed, corresponding to Hydrogen Transfer (HT) and Proton Transfer (PT). Both channels are endothermic with similar onset energies of approximately 0.9 eV; however, HT dominates over the entire Ecol range and accounts for 70-85% of the total reaction cross section. Both HT and PT occur by direct mechanisms over the entire Ecol range, and have similar dependence on reactant vibrational and collision energy. Despite these similarities, and the fact that the two channels are nearly isoenergetic and differ only in which product moiety carries the charge, their dynamics appear quite different. PT occurs primarily in large impact parameter stripping collisions, where most of the available energy is partitioned to product recoil. HT, in contrast, results in internally hot products with little recoil energy and a more forward-backward symmetric product velocity distribution. Vibration is found to affect the reaction differently in different collision energy regimes. The appearance thresholds are found to depend only on total energy, i.e., all modes of vibration are equivalent to Ecol. With increasing Ecol, vibrational energy becomes increasingly effective, relative to Ecol, at driving reaction. For HT, this transition occurs just above threshold, while for PT it begins at roughly twice the threshold energy.
17048141	The reaction of the rice mutant HEBIBA differs from that of wild-type rice in that the mutant responds inversely to red light and is defective in the light-triggered biosynthesis of jasmonic acid (JA). Using the wild type and the HEBIBA mutant of rice in a differential display screen, we attempted to identify genes that act in or near the convergence point of light and JA signalling. We isolated specifically regulated DNA fragments from approximately 10 000 displayed bands, and identified a new early light- and JA-induced gene. This gene encodes an enzyme containing a GDSL motif, showing 38 % identity at the amino acid level to lipase Arab-1 in Arabidopsis thaliana. The GDSL CONTAINING ENZYME RICE 1 gene (GER1) is rapidly induced by both red (R) and far-red (FR) light and by JA. The results are discussed with respect to a possible role for GER1 as a negative regulator of coleoptile elongation in the context of recent findings on the impact of JA on light signalling.
17049420	In the present study biosorption technique, the accumulation of metals by biomass was used for the removal of nickel from aqueous medium. The rice bran in its acid treated (H(3)PO(4)) form was used as a low cost sorbent. The adsorption characteristics of nickel on protonated rice bran were evaluated as a function of pH, biosorbent size, biosorbent dosage, initial concentration of nickel and time. Within the tested pH range (pH 1-7), the protonated rice bran displayed more resistance to pH variation, retaining up to 102 mg/g of the nickel binding capacity at pH 6. Meanwhile, at lower pH values the uptake capacity decreased. The % age removal of nickel was maximum at 0.25 g of biosorbent dose and 0.25 mm biosorbent size. At the optimal conditions, metal ion uptake was increased as the initial metal ion concentration increased up to 100mg/L. Kinetic and isotherm experiments were carried out at the optimal pH 6.0 for nickel. The metal removal rate was rapid, with 57% of the total adsorption taking place within 15-30 min. The Freundlich and Langmuir models were used to describe the uptake of nickel on protonated rice bran. The Langmuir and Freundlich model parameters were evaluated. The equilibrium adsorption data was better fitted to Langmuir adsorption isotherm model. The adsorption followed pseudo second-order kinetic model. The thermodynamic assessment of the metal ion-rice bran biomass system indicated the feasibility and spontaneous nature of the process and DeltaG degrees values were evaluated as ranging from -22.82 to -24.04 kJ/mol for nickel sorption. The order of magnitude of the DeltaG degrees values indicated an ion-exchange physiochemical sorption process.
17049688	Transgenic plant has become an attractive bioreactor to produce high-value medical peptides and proteins in biomedical research. In present study, two expression cassettes, pUNDVF and pGNDVF containing the fusion protein gene of Newcastle disease virus (NDV F) under the control of maize ubiquitin (Ubi) promoter or rice glutelin (Gt1) promoter, respectively, were constructed, and introduced into rice (Oryzy sativa L.) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. A total of 12 independent transgenic rice lines were regenerated, and the result from PCR analysis indicated that the T-DNA region containing the NDV F chimeric gene had been integrated into the genome of transgenic rice plants. ELISA and Western-blot analyses revealed that the NDV F protein could be expressed and accumulated in both leaf and seed tissue of several transgenic rice plants. Moreover, the immunogenicity of expressed proteins was tested in a mouse model and the results showed that specific antibodies were elicited in mice immunized intraperitoneally with crude protein extracts from transgenic rice plants. It implied the potential of using transgenic rice-based expression systems as supplementary bioreactor for NDV engineering subunit vaccine.
17050059	An animal model for safety assessment of genetically modified foods was tested as part of the SAFOTEST project. In a 90-day feeding study on Wistar rats, the transgenic KMD1 rice expressing Cry1Ab protein was compared to its non-transgenic parental wild type, Xiushui 11. The KMD1 rice contained 15mg Bt toxin/kg and based on the average feed consumption the daily intake was 0.54mg Bt toxin/kg body weight. No adverse effects on animal behaviour or weight gain were observed during the study. Blood samples collected one week prior to sacrifice were analyzed and compared for standard haematological and biochemical parameters. A few parameters were significantly different, but all within the normal reference intervals for rats of this breed and age and not in relation to any other findings, thus not considered treatment related. Upon sacrifice a large number of organs were weighed, macroscopic and histopathological examinations were performed with only minor changes to report. The aim of the study was to use a known animal model in performance of safety assessment of a GM crop, in this case KMD1 rice. The results show no adverse or toxic effects of KMD1 rice when tested in the design used in this 90-day study. Nevertheless the experiences from this study lead to the overall conclusion that safety assessment for unintended effects of a GM crop cannot be done without additional test group(s).
17051623	Owing to increased tolerance and the development of resistance in stored product insects to the fumigant phosphine, in recent years there has been a shift in the target terminal concentration from 100 ppm (100 mL m(-3)) to a higher level of 1000 ppm to achieve 100% insect mortality in 7 day commodity treatments. Therefore, there is a need to investigate whether the revised target concentration could be achieved for food commodities fumigated with phosphine at the standard dose of 2 g m(-3) for 7 days under airtight conditions at > or = 25 degrees C. When different types of food commodity (total 74) were fumigated (300 g per replicate) with phosphine at 2 g m(-3) for 7 days, the terminal gas concentrations in the free space of the commodities varied from 0 to > 2000 ppm. In chambers containing no substrate, a 1417 ppm concentration was recorded. Paddy rice, most of the oilseeds, shelled tree nuts, butter beans, cardamom, green gram splits, coriander powder, rice bran and cocoa powder were more sorptive (> or =60%), such that the target concentration of 1000 ppm was not achieved at the end of 7 days. For these commodities, increased doses of 3-6 g m(-3) were required to attain 1000 ppm. In-shell almonds, green cardamom, in-shell peanuts, leaf tea, tamarind pulp and sunflower seeds were exceptionally sorptive (>90%), so that 0, 41, 112, 168, 203 and 217 ppm respectively were noted at the end of 7 days; the dose must exceed 6 g m(-3) for effective fumigation of these commodities.
17051652	Metalaxyl and tricyclazole are two fungicides widely used in Spain in vineyard and rice crops respectively. In this study an investigation has been made of the effect of three organic amendments [two commercial amendments, solid fertiormont (SF) and liquid fertiormont (LF), and a residue from the olive oil production industry, alperujo (OW)] on fungicide fate in soils. Changes in soil porosity on amendment were studied by mercury intrusion porosimetry, sorption-desorption studies were performed by the batch equilibration method, dissipation of metalaxyl and tricyclazole in the soil was studied at - 33 kPa moisture content and 20 degrees C and leaching was studied in hand-packed soil columns. Amendments with SF and LF reduced soil porosity, while OW increased porosity through an increase in pore volume in the highest range studied. Tricyclazole sorbed to soils to a much higher extent than metalaxyl. With some exceptions, sorption of both fungicides increased on amendment, especially in the case of SF-amended soils, which rendered the highest K(oc) values. In soils amended with the liquid amendment LF, sorption either remained unaffected or decreased, and this decrease was much higher in the case of metalaxyl and a soil with 70% clay. In this clay soil, amendment with OW, of very high soluble organic matter content, also decreased metalaxyl sorption. Tricyclazole is more persistent in soil than metalaxyl, and both fungicides were found to be more persistent in amended soils than in unamended soils. Leaching of metalaxyl and tricyclazole in soil columns was inversely related to sorption capacity. The low recoveries of tricyclazole in leachates and in soil columns when compared with metalaxyl, a less persistent fungicide, were attributed to diffusion into micropores and to increase in sorption with residence time in the soil, both processes favoured by the low mobility of tricyclazole.
17051796	Siliceous materials such as rice husk ash (RHA) have potential to be utilized as high performance sorbents for the flue gas desulfurization process in small-scale industrial boilers. This study presents findings on identifying the key factorfor high desulfurization activity in sorbents prepared from RHA. Initially, a systematic approach using central composite rotatable design was used to develop a mathematical model that correlates the sorbent preparation variables to the desulfurization activity of the sorbent. The sorbent preparation variables studied are hydration period, x1 (6-16 h), amount of RHA, x2 (5-15 g), amount of CaO, x3 (2-6 g), amount of water, x4 (90-110 mL), and hydration temperature, x5 (150-250 degrees C). The mathematical model developed was subjected to statistical tests and the model is adequate for predicting the SO2 desulfurization activity of the sorbent within the range of the sorbent preparation variables studied. Based on the model, the amount of RHA, amount of CaO, and hydration period used in the preparation step significantly influenced the desulfurization activity of the sorbent. The ratio of RHA and CaO used in the preparation mixture was also a significant factor that influenced the desulfurization activity of the sorbent. A RHA to CaO ratio of 2.5 leads to the formation of specific reactive species in the sorbent that are believed to be the key factor responsible for high desulfurization activity in the sorbent. Other physical properties of the sorbent such as pore size distribution and surface morphology were found to have insignificant influence on the desulfurization activity of the sorbent.
17051818	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), and dibenzofurans (PCDFs) continue to be a worldwide public health concern due to their levels in the environment and humans, and associated adverse health effects. In animals, one of the most sensitive effects of physiologically significant body burdens has been the induction of cytochrome P450 1 (CYP1) family of enzymes. This study examined the capacity of CYP1 enzyme induction to be a biomarker of exposure to a mixture of PCBs and PCDFs and of adverse human health effects. We followed a group of people highly exposed to PCBs and PCDFs due to accidental ingestion of contaminated rice oil, the Yucheng cohort. A total of 174 Yucheng and 134 control subjects were studied. The caffeine breath test, a monitor of CYP1A2 activity, was conducted, and its results were compared to serum levels of chemicals and the subjects' medical history. Total dioxin serum toxic equivalency (TEQ) in the Yucheng cohort and their controls were 577 +/- 393 ppt lipid and 21 ppt lipid, respectively. CYP1A2 activity was elevated in Yucheng subjects more than 2-fold and correlated with serum TEQ (R2= 0.62). Manifestations like chloracne, fingernail abnormalities, and headaches were well predicted by P4501A2 activity. It is concluded that CYP1A2 induction seen in the Yucheng cohort is an excellent biomarker of exposure and human health effects in individual subjects and cohort.
17052323	SPINDLY (SPY) encodes an O-linked N-acetylglucosamine transferase that is considered to be a negative regulator of gibberellin (GA) signaling through an unknown mechanism. To understand the function of SPY in GA signaling in rice, we isolated a rice SPINDLY homolog (OsSPY) and produced knockdown transgenic plants in which OsSPY expression was reduced by introducing its antisense or RNAi construct. In knockdown plants, the enhanced elongation of lower internodes was correlated with decreased levels of OsSPY expression, similar to the spindly phenotype of Arabidopsis spy mutants, suggesting that OsSPY also functions as a negative factor in GA signaling in rice. The suppressive function of OsSPY in GA signaling was supported by the findings that the dwarfism was partially rescued and OsGA20ox2 (GA20 oxidase) expression was reduced in GA-deficient and GA-insensitive mutants by the knockdown of OsSPY function. The suppression of OsSPY function in a GA-insensitive mutant, gid2, also caused an increase in the phosphorylation of a rice DELLA protein, SLR1, but did not change the amount of SLR1. This indicates that the function of OsSPY in GA signaling is not via changes in the amount or stability of SLR1, but probably involves control of the suppressive function of SLR1. In addition to the GA-related phenotypes, OsSPY antisense and RNAi plants showed increased lamina joint bending, which is a brassinosteroid-related phenotype, indicating that OsSPY may play roles both in GA signaling and in the brassinosteroid pathway.
17052766	During germination of cereal seeds, aleurone cells respond to gibberellins (GA) by synthesizing and secreting hydrolytic enzymes that mobilize the reserved nutrients. It has been shown that products of early GA response genes, like a transcription factor GAMyb, act as key molecules leading to this regulation. Pivotal roles of GAMyb on expression of hydrolase genes have been well documented, whereas regulation of GAMyb expression itself remains obscure. In order to understand virtual mechanisms of the GA-mediated expression of genes, it is important to know how GA control expression of early GA response genes. Using an aleurone transient expression system of rice (Oryza sativa L.), we examined GA responsive domains of early GA response genes in the aleurone, such as GAMyb and OsDof3. The upstream promoter could not confer GA response. Extensive analyses revealed the presence of enhancer-like activities in a large first intron. In Arabidopsis, intron enhancers have been identified in MADS-box homeotic genes, AGAMOUS (AG) and FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC), in which large introns should not only confer proper gene expressions, but also associate with gene silencing by covalent modifications of both DNA and histone. These evidences prompt us to assign that chromatin-based control might be important for initial GA action. Based on this assumption, we have identified DNA methylation of the GAMyb locus in germinated rice seeds.
17052827	Gamma-cyhalothrin 15CS (GCH) contains only the active stereoisomer of the two isomers found in lambda-cyhalothrin 25EW (LCH). GCH (0.5 x rate) provides equivalent overall insect control as LCH (1 x rate). Both formulations showed high acute toxicity to zebra fish (Brachydanio rerio H.B.) and shrimp (Macrobrachium nippoensis de Haan). The 96-h LC(50(zebra fish,GCH)) is 1.93 microg a.i/L and LC(50(zebra fish,LCH)) is 1.94 microg a.i/L. LC(50(shrimp,GCH)) is 0.28 microg a.i./L and LC(50(shrimp,LCH)) 0.04 microg a.i./L. This indicates that the toxicity to shrimp is likely stereochemistry-dependent. The fates of GCH and LCH are similar in laboratory simulated rice paddy water and their concentrations decrease rapidly, with no GCH or LCH detected after 3 or 4 days. Both are toxic to shrimp in a simulated paddy irrigation reservoir even though treated return water is diluted 5 times. No shrimp fatality is shown in the GCH-treated paddy water after a 4-day holding period, and longer than 5 days is necessary to reach a zero fatality rate for LCH. This is compatible with the 7-day water holding period considered reasonable in agricultural practice.
17052828	Genetically modified plants expressing insecticidal traits offer a new strategy for crop protection, but at the same time present a challenge in terms of food safety assessment. The present 90-day feeding study was designed to assess the safety of a rice variety expressing the snowdrop Galanthus nivalis lectin (GNA lectin), and forms part of a EU-funded project where the objective has been to develop and validate sensitive and specific methods to assess the safety of genetically modified foods. Male and female Wistar rats were given a purified diet containing either 60% genetically modified or parental rice for 90 days. This corresponds to a mean daily GNA lectin intake of approximately 58 and 67mg/kg body weight for males and females, respectively. Prior to the animal study comprehensive analytical characterization of both rice materials was performed. The chemical analyses showed a number of statistically significant differences, with the majority being within the ranges reported in the literature. In the animal study a range of clinical, biological, immunological, microbiological and pathological parameters were examined. A number of significant differences were seen between groups fed the two diets, but none of them were considered to be adverse. In conclusion, the design of the present animal study did not enable us to conclude on the safety of the GM food. Additional group(s) where the expressed gene products have been spiked to the diet should be included in order to be able to distinguish whether the observed effects were due to the GNA lectin per se or to secondary changes in the GM rice.
17052831	The 90-day animal study is the core study for the safety assessment of genetically modified foods in the SAFOTEST project. The model compound tested in the 90-day study was a rice variety expressing the kidney bean Phaseolus vulgaris lectin agglutinin E-form (PHA-E lectin). Female Wistar rats were given a nutritionally balanced purified diet with 60% parental rice, 60% PHA-E rice or 60% PHA-E rice spiked with 0.1% recombinant PHA-E lectin for 90 days. This corresponded to a mean daily PHA-E lectin intake of approximately 0, 30 and 100mg/kg body weight for each group, respectively. The spiking was used to increase the specificity and to demonstrate the sensitivity of the study. A range of biological, biochemical, microbiological and pathological parameters were examined and significant differences in weight of small intestine, stomach and pancreas and plasma biochemistry were seen between groups. Included in this paper are also data from the molecular characterisation and chemical analysis of the PHA-E rice, from the construction and production of the PHA-E lectin, and from the preceding 28-day in vivo study where the toxicity of the pure PHA-E lectin was determined. In conclusion, the combined use of information from the compositional analysis, the 28-day study and the characterisation of the PHA-E rice and the PHA-E lectin has improved the design of the 90-day study. The spiking procedure has facilitated the interpretation of the results of the study and transferred it into a valuable tool for the future safety testing of genetically modified foods.
17053894	The objectives of this retrospective study were to examine the relationship between the bioavailability of itraconazole and the type of food consumed and to determine the effects of food consumption on the pharmacokinetic parameters following a single oral dose of itraconazole in healthy volunteers. The plasma itraconazole concentration-time data were pooled from four pharmacokinetic studies in 144 healthy subjects. Individual pharmacokinetic values were estimated as model-independent (AUC, C (max), and T (max)) and model-dependent (T (lag), K (a), K (cp), K (pc), K (el), and V (d)/F; two-compartment open model with lag time) parameters using the WinNonlin software program. We estimated the population characteristics of the food effects using NONMEM. The consumption of a bread meal before the administration of itraconazole caused a significant increase in its bioavailability, as well as increases in the peak plasma concentration and lag time for itraconazole absorption. On the contrary, consumption of a rice meal before the administration of itraconazole caused a significant decrease in its bioavailability. Therefore, although a dose of itraconazole is normally administered immediately after a meal to increase its bioavailability, this is not an effective strategy after a rice meal.
17053903	One of the cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) types used for hybrid rice (Oryza sativa L.) production in China is the Honglian (HL)-CMS. Previous studies suggested that pollen abortion of the sterile plants was resulted from a special programmed cell death (PCD) program started at meiosis in the microspores. To elucidate the molecular basis of the pollen abortion, we compared the biochemical and physiological properties such as content of reactive oxygen species (ROS), ATP, NADH, total glutathione and ascorbate acid, the activities of dehydroascrbate reductase, glutathione reductase, ascorbate peroxides and superoxide dismutase, and the integrity of mitochondrial genome DNA isolated from an HL-CMS line, Yuetai A and its maintainer line, Yuetai B. Our results indicated that the mitochondria of the HL-CMS line suffered from a serious oxidative stress during microspores development. Oxidative stress induced by abnormal increased ROS at meiosis stage resulted in the depletion of ATP and NADH, and the degradation of mitochondrial genomic DNA. This suggests that the presence of redox signal originated in mitochondria affects the rest of the cell. Therefore, it is possible that the abortion of premature microspores in HL-CMS line is induced by the chronic oxidative stress in mitochondria in the early stage of pollen development.
17056172	Two isoforms of alpha-glucosidases (ONG2-I and ONG2-II) were purified from dry rice seeds (Oryza sativa L., var Nipponbare). Both ONG2-I and ONG2-II were the gene products of ONG2 mRNA expressed in ripening seeds. Each enzyme consisted of two components of 6kDa-peptide and 88kDa-peptide encoded by this order in ONG2 cDNA (ong2), and generated by post-translational proteolysis. The 88kDa-peptide of ONG2-II had 10 additional N-terminal amino acids compared with the 88kDa-peptide of ONG2-I. The peptides between 6kDa and 88kDa components (26 amino acids for ONG2-I and 16 for ONG2-II) were removed by post-translational proteolysis. Proteolysis induced changes in adsorption and degradation of insoluble starch granules. We also obtained three alpha-glucosidase cDNAs (ong1, ong3, and ong4) from ripening seeds. The ONG1, ONG2, and ONG4 genes were situated in distinct locus of rice genome. The transcripts encoding ONG2 and ONG3 were generated by alternative splicing. Members of alpha-glucosidase multigene family are differentially expressed during ripening and germinating stages in rice.
17056615	Weedy rice (Oryza sativa f. spontanea) is one of the most notorious weeds occurring in rice-planting areas worldwide. The objectives of this study are to determine the genetic diversity and differentiation of weedy rice populations from Liaoning Province in North-eastern China and to explore the possible origin of these weedy populations by comparing their genetic relationships with rice varieties (O. sativa) and wild rice (O. rufipogon) from different sources. Simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were used to estimate the genetic diversity of 30 weedy rice populations from Liaoning, each containing about 30 individuals, selected rice varieties and wild O. rufipogon. Genetic differentiation and the relationships of weedy rice populations were analysed using cluster analysis (UPGMA) and principle component analysis (PCA). The overall genetic diversity of weedy rice populations from Liaoning was relatively high (H(e) = 0.313, I = 0.572), with about 35 % of the genetic variation found among regions. The Liaoning weedy rice populations were closely related to rice varieties from Liaoning and japonica varieties from other regions but distantly related to indica rice varieties and wild O. rufipogon. Weedy rice populations from Liaoning are considerably variable genetically and most probably originated from Liaoning rice varieties by mutation and intervarietal hybrids. Recent changes in farming practices and cultivation methods along with less weed management may have promoted the re-emergence and divergence of weedy rice in North-eastern China.
17056618	An auxin analog, 2,4-D, stimulates the activity of endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (EGase) in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The auxin-induced activity from three protein fractions was purified to homogeneity from primary root tissues (based on SDS-PAGE and isoelectric focusing after Coomassie brilliant blue staining). Amino acid sequencing indicated that the 20 N-terminal amino acid sequence of the three proteins was identical, suggesting that these proteins may be cognates of one EGase gene. An internal amino acid sequence of the the rice EGase (LVGGYYDAGDNVK) revealed that this enzyme belongs to glycosyl hydrolase family 9 (GHF9). The major isoform of this rice GHF9 [molecular weight based on matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS): 51,216, isoelectric point (pI): 5.5] specifically hydrolyzed 1,4-beta-glycosyl linkages of carboxymethyl (CM)-cellulose, phosphoric acid-swollen cellulose, 1,3-1,4-beta-glucan, arabinoxylan, xylan, glucomannan, cellooligosaccharides [with a degree of polymerization (DP) >3] and 1,4-beta-xylohexaose, indicating a broader substrate range compared with those of other characterized GHF9 enzymes or EGases from higher plants. Hydrolytic products of two major hemicellulosic polysaccharides in type II cell walls treated with the purified enzyme were profiled using high-performance anion exchange chromatography (HPAEC). The results suggested that endolytic attack by rice EGase is not restricted to either the cellulose-like domain of 1,3-1,4-beta-glucan or the unsubstituted 1,4-beta-xylosyl backbone of arabinoxylan, but results in the release of smaller oligosaccharides (DP <6) from graminaceous hemicelluloses. The comparatively broader substrate range of this EGase with respect to beta-1,4-glycan backbones (glucose and xylose) may partly reflect different roles of gramineous and non-gramineous GHF9 enzymes.
17056619	We report the cloning of a glycoside hydrolase family (GHF) 9 gene of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Sasanishiki), OsCel9A, corresponding to the auxin-induced 51 kDa endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (EGase). This enzyme reveals a broad substrate specificity with respect to sugar backbones (glucose and xylose) in beta-1,4-glycans of type II cell wall. OsCel9A encodes a 640 amino acid polypeptide and is an ortholog of TomCel8, a tomato EGase containing a carbohydrate-binding module (CBM) 2 sequence at its C-terminus. The expression of four rice EGase genes including OsCel9A showed different patterns of organ specificity and responses to auxin. OsCel9A was preferentially expressed during the initiation of lateral roots or subcultured root calli, but was hardly expressed during auxin-induced coleoptile elongation or in seed calli, in contrast to OsCel9D, a KORRIGAN (KOR) homolog. In situ localization of OsCel9A transcripts demonstrated that its expression was specifically up-regulated in lateral root primordia (LRP). Northern blotting analysis showed the presence of a single product of OsCel9A. In contrast, both mass spectrometric analyses of peptide fragments from purified 51 kDa EGase proteins and immunogel blot analysis of EGase proteins in root extracts using two antibodies against internal peptide sequences of OsCel9A revealed that the entire CBM2 region was post-translationally truncated from the 67 kDa nascent protein to generate 51 kDa EGase isoforms. Analyses of auxin concentration and time course dependence of accumulation of two EGase isoforms suggested that the translation and post-translational CBM2 truncation of the OsCel9A gene may participate in lateral root development.
17056620	To elucidate the genetic mechanism that regulates meristem maintenance in monocots, here we have examined the function of the gene FLORAL ORGAN NUMBER2 (FON2) in Oryza sativa (rice). Mutations in FON2 cause enlargement of the floral meristem, resulting in an increase in the number of floral organs, although the vegetative and inflorescence meristems are largely normal. Molecular cloning reveals that FON2 encodes a small secreted protein, containing a CLE domain, that is closely related to CLAVATA3 in Arabidopsis thaliana. FON2 transcripts are localized at the apical region in all meristems in the aerial parts of rice plants, showing an expression pattern similar to that of Arabidopsis CLV3. Constitutive expression of FON2 causes a reduction in the number of floral organs and flowers, suggesting that both the flower and inflorescence meristems are reduced in size. This action of FON2 requires the function of FON1, an ortholog of CLV1. Constitutive expression of FON2 also causes premature termination of the shoot apical meristem in Arabidopsis, a phenotype similar to that caused by constitutive expression of CLV3. Together with our previous study of FON1, these results clearly indicate that the FON1-FON2 system in rice corresponds to the CLV signaling system in Arabidopsis and suggest that the negative regulation of stem cell identity by these systems may be principally conserved in a wide range of plants within the Angiosperms. In addition, we propose a model of the genetic regulation of meristem maintenance in rice that includes an alternative pathway independent of FON2-FON1.
17056706	NPS6, encoding a nonribosomal peptide synthetase, is a virulence determinant in the maize (Zea mays) pathogen Cochliobolus heterostrophus and is involved in tolerance to H(2)O(2). Deletion of NPS6 orthologs in the rice (Oryza sativa) pathogen, Cochliobolus miyabeanus, the wheat (Triticum aestivum) pathogen, Fusarium graminearum, and the Arabidopsis thaliana pathogen, Alternaria brassicicola, resulted in reduced virulence and hypersensitivity to H(2)O(2). Introduction of the NPS6 ortholog from the saprobe Neurospora crassa to the Deltanps6 strain of C. heterostrophus restored wild-type virulence to maize and tolerance to H(2)O(2), demonstrating functional conservation in filamentous ascomycete phytopathogens and saprobes. Increased sensitivity to iron depletion was identified as a conserved phenotype of Deltanps6 strains. Exogenous application of iron enhanced the virulence of Deltanps6 strains of C. heterostrophus, C. miyabeanus, F. graminearum, and A. brassicicola to each host. NPS6 is responsible for the biosynthesis of extracellular siderophores by C. heterostrophus, F. graminearum, and A. brassicicola. Application of the extracellular siderophore of A. brassicicola restored wild-type virulence of the DeltaAbnps6 strain to Arabidopsis. It is proposed that the role of extracellular siderophores in fungal virulence to plants is to supply an essential nutrient, iron, to their producers in planta and not to act as phytotoxins, depriving their hosts of iron.
17056708	Rice blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea) forms a highly specialized infection structure for plant penetration, the appressorium, the formation and growth of which are regulated by the Mst11-Mst7-Pmk1 mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. We characterized the MST50 gene that directly interacts with both MST11 and MST7. Similar to the mst11 mutant, the mst50 mutant was defective in appressorium formation, sensitive to osmotic stresses, and nonpathogenic. Expressing a dominant active MST7 allele in mst50 complemented its defects in appressorium but not lesion formation. The sterile alpha-motif (SAM) domain of Mst50 was essential for its interaction with Mst11 and for appressorium formation. Although the SAM and Ras-association domain (RAD) of Mst50 were dispensable for its interaction with Mst7, deletion of RAD reduced appressorium formation and virulence on rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings. The interaction between Mst50 and Mst7 or Mst11 was detected by coimmunoprecipitation assays in developing appressoria. Mst50 also interacts with Ras1, Ras2, Cdc42, and Mgb1 in yeast two-hybrid assays. Expressing a dominant active RAS2 allele in the wild-type strain but not in mst50 stimulated abnormal appressorium formation. These results indicate that MST50 functions as an adaptor protein interacting with multiple upstream components and plays critical roles in activating the Pmk1 cascade for appressorium formation and plant infection in M. grisea.
17057264	Forty weaned male guinea pigs of 208.20 +/- 6.62 g mean body weight were divided into 4 groups of 10 animals in a randomized block design. All of the guinea pigs were fed a basal diet [25% ground maize hay, 30% ground maize grain, 22% ground chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.), 9.5% deoiled rice bran, 6% soybean meal, 6% fish meal, 1.45% mineral supplement (without Zn) and 0.05% ascorbic acid] and available green fodder. Group I served as the control (no Zn supplementation), whereas 20 ppm Zn was added in the diet in groups II, III, and IV either as zinc sulfate (ZnSO(4)), zinc amino acid complex (ZAAC), and ZnSO4 + ZAAC in equal parts, respectively. Experimental feeding lasted for 70 d, including a 3-d digestibility trial. Blood was collected through cardiac puncture from four animals in each group at d 0 and subsequently at the end of experimental feeding. After 40 d of experimental feeding, four animals from each group were injected with 0.4 mL of Brucella abortus cotton strain-19 vaccine to assess the humoral immune response of the animals. After 10 wk of study, four animals from each group were sacrificed to study the concentration of Zn, Cu, Co, Fe, and Mn in the liver, pancreas and spleen. Results revealed no significant difference in the feed intake, body weight gain, and digestibility of the nutrients, except for crude protein (CP) digestibility, which was significantly (p < 0.05) lower in group IV. Although concentrations of serum glucose, Ca, and P and the albumin:globulin (A:G) ratio were similar in the different groups, the total protein, albumin, and serum alkaline phosphatase activity were higher in all of the Zn-supplemented groups on d 70. The serum Zn levels at the end of experimental feeding were significantly higher in groups II and III, whereas serum Mn levels were found to be significantly (p < 0.05) higher in groups III and IV. The organ weights (as percentage of body weights) did not show any differences among the treatment groups. Although the Mn concentration was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in the pancreas, the Cu concentration was significantly (p < 0.05) reduced in the spleen in all of the Zn-supplemented groups. The humoral immune response (antibody titer values) on d 14 of vaccination was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in all of the Zn-supplemented groups. It was concluded that the 20-ppm level of Zn in the diet might be adequate for growth and nutrient utilization in guinea pigs, but supplementation of 20-ppm zinc significantly improved the immune response and impact was more prominent with the ZAAC (organic source) compared to ZnSO(4) (inorganic source).
17057704	Azoarcus sp. strain BH72, a mutualistic endophyte of rice and other grasses, is of agrobiotechnological interest because it supplies biologically fixed nitrogen to its host and colonizes plants in remarkably high numbers without eliciting disease symptoms. The complete genome sequence is 4,376,040-bp long and contains 3,992 predicted protein-coding sequences. Genome comparison with the Azoarcus-related soil bacterium strain EbN1 revealed a surprisingly low degree of synteny. Coding sequences involved in the synthesis of surface components potentially important for plant-microbe interactions were more closely related to those of plant-associated bacteria. Strain BH72 appears to be 'disarmed' compared to plant pathogens, having only a few enzymes that degrade plant cell walls; it lacks type III and IV secretion systems, related toxins and an N-acyl homoserine lactones-based communication system. The genome contains remarkably few mobile elements, indicating a low rate of recent gene transfer that is presumably due to adaptation to a stable, low-stress microenvironment.
17058282	Although nutrition and diet have been related to renal cell carcinoma (RCC), the role of specific foods or nutrients on this cancer is still controversial. We evaluated the relation between a wide range of foods and the risk of RCC in an Italian case-control study including 767 patients (494 men and 273 women) younger than 79 years with incident, histologically confirmed RCC, and 1,534 controls (988 men and 546 women) admitted to the same hospitals as cases for a wide spectrum of acute, non-neoplastic conditions, not related to long term diet modifications. A validated and reproducible food frequency questionnaire, including 78 foods and beverages, plus a separate section on alcohol drinking, was used to assess patients' dietary habits 2 years before diagnosis or hospital admission. Multivariate odds ratios (OR) were obtained after allowance for energy intake and other major confounding factors. A significant direct trend in risk was found for bread (OR = 1.94 for the highest versus the lowest intake quintile), and a modest excess of risk was observed for pasta and rice (OR = 1.29), and milk and yoghurt (OR = 1.27). Poultry (OR = 0.74), processed meat (OR = 0.64) and vegetables (OR = 0.65) were inversely associated with RCC risk. No relation was found for coffee and tea, soups, eggs, red meat, fish, cheese, pulses, potatoes, fruits, desserts and sugars. The results of this study provide further indications on dietary correlates of RCC, and in particular indicate that a diet rich in refined cereals and poor in vegetables may have an unfavorable role on RCC.
17058966	A new catalytic spectrophotometric method for the determination of trace amount of Mn(II) was developed. The method is based on the oxidation of 7-(2-nitryl-4-methyl phenylazo)-8-hydroxy-qinolin-5-slfonic acid by potassium periodate in the presence of nitrilo triacec acid as an activator and CTMAB as a sensitizer. The wavelengths for the determination was 509 nm. The linear range of determination is 0-3. 2 x 10(-9) g x mL(-1) for Mn(II). The determination limit is 3.8 x 10(-11) g x mL(-1). The interference of foreign ions was studied. The method can be used for the determination of Mn(II) in mung bean, rice, cereal and soil samples.
17059407	Development and organogenesis in both dicot and monocot plants are highly dependent on polar auxin transport (PAT), which requires the proper asymmetric localization of both auxin influx and efflux carriers. In the model dicot plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the trafficking and localization of auxin efflux facilitators such as PIN-FORMED1 (PIN1) are mediated by GNOM, a guanine-nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for the ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) family of small GTPases, but molecular regulators of the auxin influx facilitators remain unknown. Here, we show that over-expression of OsAGAP, an ARF-GTPase-activating protein (ARF-GAP) in rice, impaired PAT and interfered with both primary and lateral root development. The lateral root phenotype could be rescued by the membrane-permeable auxin 1-naphthyl acetic acid, but not by indole 3-acetic acid (IAA) or by 2,4-dichloro-phenoxyacetic acid, which require influx facilitators to enter the cells. OsAGAP-over-expressing plants had alterations in vesicle trafficking and localization of the presumptive A. thaliana auxin-influx carrier AUX1, but not in the localization of the auxin efflux facilitators. Together, our data suggest that OsAGAP has a specific role in regulating vesicle trafficking pathways such as the auxin influx pathway, which in turn controls auxin-dependent root growth in plants.
17061169	We compared the volatiles of JA-treated plants of six rice varieties and then determined, in the laboratory and field, if they differed in attractiveness to Anagrus nilaparavate Pand et Wang, an egg parasitoid of rice planthoppers. Analyses of volatiles revealed significant differences among varieties, both in total quantity and quality of the blends emitted. On the basis of these differences, the six varieties could be roughly divided into three groups. In a Y-tube olfactometer, female wasps preferred odors from two groups. These preferences corresponded to observed parasitism rates in a field experiment. A comparison of the volatiles with results from behavioral assays and field experiments indicates that the quality (composition) of the blends is more important for attraction than the total amount emitted. The results imply that the foraging success of natural enemies of pests can be enhanced by breeding for crop varieties that release specific volatiles.
17061888	Rice husk is a cheap agro-based waste material, which harbors a substantial amount of silica in the form of amorphous hydrated silica grains. However, there have been no attempts at harnessing the enormous amount of amorphous silica present in rice husk and its room-temperature biotransformation into crystalline silica nanoparticles. In this study, we address this issue and describe how naturally deposited amorphous biosilica in rice husk can be bioleached and simultaneously biotransformed into high value crystalline silica nanoparticles. We show here that the fungus Fusarium oxysporum rapidly biotransforms the naturally occurring amorphous plant biosilica into crystalline silica and leach out silica extracellularly at room temperature in the form of 2-6 nm quasi-spherical, highly crystalline silica nanoparticles capped by stabilizing proteins; that the nanoparticles are released into solution is an advantage of this process with significant application and commercial potential. Calcination of the silica nanoparticles leads to loss of occluded protein and to an apparently porous structure often of cubic morphology. The room-temperature synthesis of oxide nanomaterials using microorganisms starting from potential cheap agro-industrial waste materials is an exciting possibility and could lead to an energy-conserving and economically viable green approach toward the large-scale synthesis of oxide nanomaterials.
17062142	For remote identification of mosquito habitats the first step is often to construct a discrete tessellation of the region. In applications where complex geometries do not need to be represented such as urban habitats, regular orthogonal grids are constructed in GIS and overlaid on satellite images. However, rice land vector mosquito aquatic habitats are rarely uniform in space or character. An orthogonal grid overlaid on satellite data of rice-land areas may fail to capture physical or man-made structures, i.e paddies, canals, berms at these habitats. Unlike an orthogonal grid, digitizing each habitat converts a polygon into a grid cell, which may conform to rice-land habitat boundaries. This research illustrates the application of a random sampling methodology, comparing an orthogonal and a digitized grid for assessment of rice land habitats. A land cover map was generated in Erdas Imagine V8.7 using QuickBird data acquired July 2005, for three villages within the Mwea Rice Scheme, Kenya. An orthogonal grid was overlaid on the images. In the digitized dataset, each habitat was traced in Arc Info 9.1. All habitats in each study site were stratified based on levels of rice stage The orthogonal grid did not identify any habitat while the digitized grid identified every habitat by strata and study site. An analysis of variance test indicated the relative abundance of An. arabiensis at the three study sites to be significantly higher during the post-transplanting stage of the rice cycle. Regions of higher Anopheles abundance, based on digitized grid cell information probably reflect underlying differences in abundance of mosquito habitats in a rice land environment, which is where limited control resources could be concentrated to reduce vector abundance.
17064187	Density functional theory calculations were applied to systematically and directly compare the relative energetic stability of multiple-decker sandwich and rice-ball structures for a variety of neutral Ti(m)Bz(n) clusters (m = 1-4, n = 1-5). Almost all structures favored the multiple-decker sandwich structure, as observed experimentally for early transition metals. The strength of each metal-benzene interaction averages 37 kcal/mol and remains relatively constant for sandwiches with three or more Ti atoms. The most stable smaller rice-ball structures did not have eta(6)-Bz bound to a single metal atom. Instead, the preferred coordination was having the plane of the benzene molecule parallel to a Ti(2) bond or a Ti(3) face, leading to some distortion of the benzene ring. The larger rice-ball structures, on the other hand, preferred to weaken the metal-metal bonds and retain eta(6)-Bz bound to a single metal atom, a structural motif shared with sandwiches.
17064258	Forty Azospirillum strains were tested for their ability to synthesize N-acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs). AHL production was detected for four strains belonging to the lipoferum species and isolated from a rice rhizosphere. AHL molecules were structurally identified for two strains: Azospirillum lipoferum TVV3 produces 3O,C(8)-HSL (N-3-oxo-octanoyl-homoserine-lactone), C(8)-HSL (N-3-octanoyl-homoserine-lactone), 3O,C(10)-HSL (N-3-oxo-decanoyl-homoserine-lactone), 3OH,C(10)-HSL (N-3-hydroxy-decanoyl-homoserine-lactone) and C(10)-HSL (N-3-decanoyl-homoserine-lactone), whereas A. lipoferum B518 produced 3O,C(6)-HSL (N-3-oxo-hexanoyl-homoserine-lactone), C(6)-HSL (N-3-hexanoyl-homoserine-lactone), 3O,C(8)-HSL, 3OH,C(8)-HSL and C(8)-HSL. Genes involved in AHL production were characterized for A. lipoferum TVV3 by generating a genomic library and complementing an AHL-deficient strain with sensor capabilities. Those genes, designated alpI and alpR, were found to belong to the luxI and luxR families, respectively. When cloned in a suitable heterologous host, alpI and alpR could direct the synthesis of the five cognate AHLs present in A. lipoferum TVV3. These two adjacent genes were found to be located on a 85 kb plasmid. Southern hybridization experiments with probes alpI/R indicated that genes involved in AHL production in the three other AHL-producing strains were not closely related to alpI and alpR. This study demonstrates that AHL-based quorum-sensing is not widespread among the genus Azospirillum and could be found only in some A. lipoferum strains.
17065597	Numerous previous studies have elucidated 2 surprising patterns of spliceosomal intron evolution in diverse eukaryotes over the past roughly 100 Myr. First, rates of recent intron gain in a wide variety of eukaryotic lineages have been surprisingly low, far too low to explain modern intron densities. Second, intron losses have outnumbered intron gains over a variety of lineages. For several reasons, land plants might be expected to have comparatively high rates of intron gain and thus to represent a possible exception to this pattern. However, we report several studies that indicate low rates of intron gain and an excess of intron losses over intron gains in a variety of plant lineages. We estimate that intron losses have outnumbered intron gains in recent evolution in Arabidopsis thaliana (roughly 12.6 times more losses than gains), Oryza sativa (9.8 times), the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (5.1 times), and the Bigelowiella natans nucleomorph, an enslaved green algal nucleus (2.8 times). We estimate that during recent evolution, A. thaliana and O. sativa have experienced very low rates of intron gain of around one gain per gene per 2.6-8.0 billion years. In addition, we compared 8,258 pairs of putatively orthologous A. thaliana-O. sativa genes. We found that 5.3% of introns in conserved coding regions are species-specific. Observed species-specific A. thaliana and O. sativa introns tend to be exact and to lie adjacent to each other along the gene, in a pattern suggesting mRNA-mediated intron loss. Our results underscore that low intron gain rates and intron number reduction are common features of recent eukaryotic evolution. This pattern implies that rates of intron creation were higher during earlier periods of evolution and further focuses attention on the causes of initial intron proliferation.
17066701	With Japonica cultivar Wuxiangjing 14 as test material, a free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experiment was conducted at Anzhen and Wuxi of Jiangsu Province in 2001 to approximately 2003. The target CO2 concentration of FACE plots was 570 micromol x mol(-1), 200 micromol x mol(-1) higher than that of ambient air. Three levels of N were supplied as LN (150 kg x hm(-2)), MN (250 kg x hm(-2)) and HN (350 kg x hm(-2)). The effects of FACE treatment on the dynamics of rice tiller was studied, and the simulation model was established as Tt = ((A1/1 + e(a1-b1t)) - (A2/1 + e(a2-b2t)) + C) x ((B1/(1 + e(a3-b3t) - (B2/1 + e(a4-b4t))+D) Where Tt was the numbers of rice tiller in t days after transplanting; A1 and A2 were the maximal tillers of production and death under ambient air, respectively; B1 and B2 were the maximal potential tillers of production and death under FACE, respectively; C was the coefficient of CO2 concentration; D was the initial tillers after transplanting; and a1, a2, a3, a4, b1, b2, b3 and b4 were the control coefficients of the model. The dynamics of tiller numbers with the days after transplanting was described, and the model fitted well under ambient air and FACE conditions. Through testing with different year experimental data, the maximum and minimum RMSE was forecasted as 44.27 and 13.96 ind x m(-2), respectively, suggesting that the model was accurate and applicable.
17066702	The MODIS (moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer) surface reflectance product MOD09, which was strictly corrected by NASA, can be widely applied to monitor the change of land vegetation. In this paper, a quasi and synchronous experiment of MODIS sensor was performed, and the rice leaf area index (LAI) and chlorophyll content (Chltot) were measured. The relationships between the vegetation indices (VIs) derived from MOD09 and the rice LAI and Chltot were analyzed, and the estimation models were established. The VIs values derived from MOD09 were higher than those in the first three bands of MOD09, and EVI value was lower than NDVI value. In comparing with other Vis, EVI had a better relationship with LAI at different rice growth stages. MOD09-EVI was selected to construct the estimation model of rice LAI, and validated by other in situ sampling plot data to be more precise, suggesting MOD09-EVI was the best index to monitor rice LAI. There was a significant correlation between MOD09-Red band and Chltot at early and medium rice growth stages. The estimation model of rice canopy Chltot based on MOD09-Red band was established and validated, and no models were significantly efficient, except the estimation model of Chltot at booting stage.
17066824	A 4-yr field study was conducted to assess the resistance of rice, Oryza sativa L., cultivars to injury from the sugarcane borer, Diatraea saccharalis (F.), and the Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) (both Lepidoptera: Crambidae). Several cultivars showed reduced levels of injury ('CLXL8', 'XL8', 'Wells', 'Cheniere', and 'XP710' in 2003; CLXL8, XP723, Cheniere, and 'CL161' in 2004) and lower stem borer yield loss (CLXL8 in 2004) than the more susceptible 'Priscilla'. The resistant CLXL8 also had less injury and yield loss in 2004 and higher yield in 2003 than 'Cocodrie', currently the most popular rice cultivar in Texas and Louisiana. Linear regression analyses between whiteheads and main crop rice yield showed steeper negative slopes for the more resistant cultivars than the more susceptible cultivars, indicating a greater yield loss per whitehead on the resistant cultivars. Compensation from insect injury likely explains the positive associations established in our study between main crop yield and whiteheads for some cultivars. Cultivar resistance is anticipated to become a major control tactic in reducing infestations of E. loftini and D. saccharalis in the Texas and Louisiana rice industries.
17066931	A novel quantitative and specific method for detection of buckwheat, a known food allergen, in diverse food materials was developed by using a unique internal standard to compensate for the variability in DNA extraction and amplification efficiencies. The method was based on a real-time PCR targeting the internal transcribed spacer region of Fagopyrum spp. and was designed to detect both cultivated and wild buckwheat, because wild buckwheat might be potentially allergenic. As the internal standard material, ground seeds of statice (Limonium sinuatum) were added to food samples prior to DNA extraction, and the amount of statice DNA measured by real-time PCR was used to standardize the buckwheat content. Statice, an ornamental plant, was chosen as the internal standard material because it was readily available and was inferred to be least likely to be commingled in foods. The specificity of the PCR system was tested against commonly used food materials of plant origin. Quantitative results expressed in buckwheat protein concentrations (mean +/- standard deviation) for various food samples prepared to contain 10 ppm (wt/wt) of buckwheat flour (corresponding to 1.2-microg/g [ppm] buckwheat protein) ranged from 0.7 +/- 0.2 (rice) to 0.9 +/- 0.4 (wheat) and for 100-ppm (wt/wt) samples (12-microg/g [ppm] buckwheat protein) from 7.7 +/- 1.0 (pepper) to 9.8 +/- 0.5 (wheat) microg/g (ppm). The method's accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity were considered sufficient for detection of buckwheat contamination at the level required for compliance with the Japanese Food Allergen Labeling Regulation.
17067657	Arsenic (As) concentrations in the soil layers of 12 rice fields located in four As affected areas and two unaffected areas in Bangladesh were monitored during 2003. In the unaffected areas, where irrigation water contained little As (<1 microg/L), As concentrations of rice field soils ranged from 1.5 to 3.0 mg/kg and did not vary significantly with either depth or sampling time throughout the irrigation period. In the As affected areas where the irrigation water contained elevated As (79 to 436 microg/L), As concentrations of rice field soils were much higher compared to those in the unaffected areas and varied significantly with both depth and sampling time. For the top 0 to 150 mm of the soil, the As concentration increased significantly at the end of the irrigation season (May-June 2003). About 71% of the As that is applied to the rice field with irrigation water accumulates in the top 0 to 75 mm soil layer by the end of the irrigation season. After the wet season during which the rice fields were inundated with flood/rain water, the As concentrations in the soil layer decreased significantly and were reduced to levels comparable to those found in soil samples collected at the beginning of the irrigation period. The long-term As accumulation in agricultural soil appears to be counteracted by biogeochemical pathways leading to As removal from soil.
17067794	Integrated use of inorganic fertilizer N and well decomposed cattle manure (CM) or 30-35 days old Parthenium (Parthenium hysterophorus L.), a weed grown off site as green manure (GM) under repeated applications of fertilizer P and urea N for eight years in a rice (Oriza sativa L.)-wheat (Triticum estivum L.) sequence was studied on transformation of fertilizer P applied to soil at the National Research Center for Weed Science, Jabalpur, India. Based on the results, it appeared that, repeated applications of 52 kg super-phosphate P resulted in a marked increase in Olsen P linearly with time. Conjunctive use of urea fertilizer N with organic manure resulted in a larger increase in Olsen P in the Vertisol. Studies further revealed that the greater accumulation of fertilizer P applied in excess to crop removal occurred in inorganic P in the plots receiving only fertilizer N. However, plots receiving fertilizer N along with organic manures led to P accumulation predominantly in organic forms. The study suggests that these two pools of P acted as a sink when fertilizer P was applied in excess to crop removal and are bio-chemically active. The Olsen P status after 8 cycles of rice-wheat crops revealed that the average amount of fertilizer P required after adjusting for crop uptake to increase Olsen P by 1 mg kg(-1) soil was 7.2 kg Pha(-1) in the plots receiving only fertilizer N. Whereas, application of 5t FYM or 6t GM reduced it to 4.6 kg Pha(-1). The plots receiving manure always maintained a greater concentration of Olsen P. The application of CM or GM with fertilizer N enriched short-term inorganic P as well as long-term organic P fertility. After eight years, larger concentrations of organic P in the subsurface layer (16-30 cm), compared to initial values, indicates downward movement of P in organic forms.
17069388	To better understand agricultural carbon fluxes in California, USA, we estimated changes in soil carbon and woody material between 1980 and 2000 on 3.6 x 10(6) ha of farmland in California. Combining the CASA (Carnegie-Ames-Stanford Approach) model with data on harvest indices and yields, we calculated net primary production, woody production in orchard and vineyard crops, and soil carbon. Over the 21-yr period, two trends resulted in carbon sequestration. Yields increased an average of 20%, corresponding to greater plant biomass and more carbon returned to the soils. Also, orchards and vineyards increased in area from 0.7 x 10(6) ha to 1.0 x 10(6) ha, displacing field crops and sequestering woody carbon. Our model estimates that California's agriculture sequestered an average of 19 g C x m(-2) x yr(-1). Sequestration was lowest in non-rice annual cropland, which sequestered 9 g C x m(-2) x yr(-1) of soil carbon, and highest on land that switched from annual cropland to perennial cropland. Land that switched from annual crops to vineyards sequestered 68 g C x m(-2) x yr(-1), and land that switched from annual crops to orchards sequestered 85 g C x m(-2) x yr(-1). Rice fields, because of a reduction in field burning, sequestered 55 g C x m(-2) x yr(-1) in the 1990s. Over the 21 years, California's 3.6 x 10(6) ha of agricultural land sequestered 11.0 Tg C within soils and 3.5 Tg C in woody biomass, for a total of 14.5 Tg C statewide. This is equal to 0.7% of the state's total fossil fuel emissions over the same time period. If California's agriculture adopted conservation tillage, changed management of almond and walnut prunings, and used all of its orchard and vineyard waste wood in the biomass power plants in the state, California's agriculture could offset up to 1.6% of the fossil fuel emissions in the state.
17069390	Rodents cause significant damage to lowland irrigated rice crops in the Red River Delta of Vietnam. A four-year study was conducted in 1999-2002 to examine the effectiveness of applying rodent control practices using the principles of ecologically based pest management. Four 100-150 ha study sites adjacent to villages were selected and farmers on two treated sites were asked to follow a set of rodent management practices, while farmers on the untreated sites were asked not to change their typical practices. Farmers on the treated sites were encouraged to use trap-barrier systems (TBS's; 0.065-ha early planted crop surrounded by a plastic fence with multiple capture traps; one TBS for every 10-15 ha), to work together over large areas by destroying burrows in refuge habitats soon after planting (before the rats reestablish in the fields and before the onset of breeding), synchronizing planting and harvesting of the their rice crops, cleaning up weeds and piles of straw, and keeping bund (embankment) size small (<30 cm) to prevent burrowing. A 75% reduction in the use of rodenticides and plastic barrier fences (without traps or an early crop) was achieved on treated sites. The abundance of rodents was low after implementation of the management practices across all sites. There was no evidence for an effect of treatment on the abundance of rodents captured each month using live-capture traps, and no difference in damage between treatments or in yields obtained from the rice crops. Therefore, ecologically based rodent management was equally effective as typical practices for rodent management. Farmers on the treated sites spent considerably less money applying rodent control practices, which was reflected in the comparative increase in the partial benefit:cost of applying ecologically based rodent management from 3:1 on treated sites and untreated sites prior to the implementation of treatments to 17:1 on treated sites in the final year of the project.
17070026	In general, methods to test the susceptibility of fungi to antifungal drugs require standardized techniques, but so far there is no methodology that is widely applicable to dermatophytes. Here we introduced modifications to the protocols from documents of the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards (CLSI) M38-A and the Antifungal Susceptibility Testing Subcommittee of the European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) that are usually applied to moulds and fermentative yeasts, in order to adjust the conditions for the growth of dermatophytes. The modifications included: growth on potato dextrose agar supplemented with 2% in-house rice flour to encourage sporulation, the addition of 2% glucose to the culture media (RPMI-1640), and an incubation temperature of 28 degrees C. In addition, the incubation period was 7d, the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) was defined as 80% growth inhibition endpoints for azole agents, and the inocula only contained microconidia. Results obtained by both tested methodologies were very similar to the ones reported by other researchers. MIC90 (MIC at which 90% of isolates tested were inhibited) values were identical for four out of five antifungal drugs tested and there was only a difference of one or two dilutions when MIC50 values were compared. Although the modifications introduced did not interfere with the results, more studies are necessary to establish a standard technique to test susceptibility of dermatophytes to antifungal drugs.
17071645	Durum wheat (Triticum turgidum subsp. durum) is more salt sensitive than bread wheat (Triticum aestivum). A novel source of Na(+) exclusion conferring salt tolerance to durum wheat is present in the durum wheat Line 149 derived from Triticum monococcum C68-101, and a quantitative trait locus contributing to low Na(+) concentration in leaf blades, Nax1, mapped to chromosome 2AL. In this study, we used the rice (Oryza sativa) genome sequence and data from the wheat expressed sequence tag deletion bin mapping project to identify markers and construct a high-resolution map of the Nax1 region. Genes on wheat chromosome 2AL and rice chromosome 4L had good overall colinearity, but there was an inversion of a chromosomal segment that includes the Nax1 locus. Two putative sodium transporter genes (TmHKT7) related to OsHKT7 were mapped to chromosome 2AL. One TmHKT7 member (TmHKT7-A1) was polymorphic between the salt-tolerant and -sensitive lines, and cosegregated with Nax1 in the high-resolution mapping family. The other TmHKT7 member (TmHKT7-A2) was located within the same bacterial artificial chromosome contig of approximately 145 kb as TmHKT7-A1. TmHKT7-A1 and -A2 showed 83% amino acid identity. TmHKT7-A2, but not TmHKT7-A1, was expressed in roots and leaf sheaths of the salt-tolerant durum wheat Line 149. The expression pattern of TmHKT7-A2 was consistent with the physiological role of Nax1 in reducing Na(+) concentration in leaf blades by retaining Na(+) in the sheaths. TmHKT7-A2 could control Na(+) unloading from xylem in roots and sheaths.
17071795	Acetate is the most abundant intermediate of organic matter degradation in anoxic rice field soil and is converted to CH(4) and/or CO(2). Aceticlastic methanogens are the primary microorganisms dissimilating acetate in the absence of sulfate and reducible ferric iron. In contrast, very little is known about bacteria capable of assimilating acetate under methanogenic conditions. Here, we identified active acetate-assimilating microorganisms by using a combined approach of frequent label application at a low concentration and comparative RNA-stable isotope probing with (13)C-labeled and unlabeled acetate. Rice field soil was incubated anaerobically at 25 degrees C for 12 days, during which (13)C-labeled acetate was added at a concentration of 500 muM every 3 days. (13)C-labeled CH(4) and CO(2) were produced from the beginning of the incubation and accounted for about 60% of the supplied acetate (13)C. RNA was extracted from the cells in each sample taken and separated by isopycnic centrifugation according to molecular weight. Bacterial and archaeal populations in each density fraction were screened by reverse transcription-PCR-mediated terminal restriction fragment polymorphism analysis. No differences in the bacterial populations were observed throughout the density fractions of the unlabeled treatment. However, in the heavy fractions of the (13)C treatment, terminal restriction fragments (T-RFs) of 161 bp and 129 bp in length predominated. These T-RFs were identified by cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA as from a Geobacter sp. and an Anaeromyxobacter sp., respectively. Apparently these bacteria, which are known as dissimilatory iron reducers, were able to assimilate acetate under methanogenic conditions, i.e., when CO(2) was the predominant electron acceptor. We hypothesize that ferric iron minerals with low bioavailability might have served as electron acceptors for Geobacter spp. and Anaeromyxobacter spp. under these conditions.
17071900	Acid waste bentonite is a byproduct from vegetable oil bleaching that is acidic (pH < 3.0) and hydrophobic. These materials are currently disposed of in landfills and could potentially have a negative impact on the effective function of microbes that are intolerant of acidic conditions. A study was undertaken using three different sources of acid waste bentonites, namely soybean oil bentonite (SB), palm oil bentonite (PB), and rice bran oil bentonite (RB). These materials were co-composted with rice husk, rice husk ash, and chicken litter to eliminate their acid reactivity and hydrophobic nature. The organic carbon (OC) content, pH, exchangeable cations, and cation exchange capacity (CEC) of the acid-activated bentonites increased significantly after the co-composting phase. In addition, the hydrophobic nature of these materials as measured using the water drop penetration time (WDPT) decreased from >10 800 s to 16 to 80 s after composting. Furthermore, these composted materials showed positive impacts on soil physical attributes including specific surface area, bulk density, and available water content for crop growth. Highly significant increases in maize biomass (Zea mays L.) production over two consecutive cropping cycles was observed in treatments receiving co-composted bentonite. The study clearly demonstrates the potential for converting an environmentally hazardous material into a high-quality soil conditioner using readily available agricultural byproducts. It is envisaged that the application of these composted acid waste bentonites to degraded soils will increase productivity and on-farm income, thus contributing toward food security and poverty alleviation.
17071960	Long terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposons comprise a significant portion of the rice genome. Their complete characterization is thus necessary if the sequenced genome is to be annotated correctly. In addition, because LTR-retrotransposons can influence the expression of neighboring genes, the complete identification of these elements in the rice genome is essential in order to study their putative functional interactions with the plant genes. The aims of the database are to (i) Assemble a comprehensive dataset of LTR-retrotransposons that includes not only abundant elements, but also low copy number elements. (ii) Provide an interface to efficiently access the resources stored in the database. This interface should also allow the community to annotate these elements. (iii) Provide a means for identifying LTR-retrotransposons inserted near genes. Here we present the results, where 242 complete LTR-retrotransposons have been structurally and functionally annotated. A web interface to the database has been made available (http://www.retroryza.org/), through which the user can annotate a sequence or search for LTR-retrotransposons in the neighborhood of a gene of interest.
17072086
17072529	The avidity for CD80Ig/CD86Ig and the in vitro immunosuppressive effect of recombinant human cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4-immunoglobulin, produced by transgenic rice cell suspension cultures (hCTLA4Ig(P)) with CHO-derived recombinant hCTLA4Ig (hCTLA4Ig(M)), were measured. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) was used for kinetic binding analysis: hCTLA4Ig(P) and hCTLA4Ig(M) had higher avidity for CD80Ig/CD86Ig than for CD28Ig, and the avidity for CD80Ig/CD86Ig was similar. hCTLA4Ig(P) and hCTLA4Ig(M) had similar in vitro immunosuppressive activity against the expression of T cell-derived cytokines, such as IL-2, IL-4, and IFN-gamma, but did not suppress the expression of macrophage-derived cytokines, including TNF-alpha and IL-1beta, as well as NO. Thus the immunosuppressive mechanism of hCTLA4Ig(P) is also T cell-specific and it could therefore be used as an immunosuppressive agent with an equivalent potency to that of hCTLA4Ig(M).
17072548	Microbial risk was quantified to assess human health risk as a result of exposure to E. coli in reclaimed wastewater irrigation. Monitoring data on E. coli were collected from pond water in paddy rice plots during the growing season. Five treatments were used and each was triplicated to evaluate the changes in E. coli concentrations in experiments performed in 2003 and 2004. The Beta-Poisson model was used to estimate the microbial risk of pathogen ingestion among farmers and neighboring children. A Monte Carlo simulation (10,000 trials) was conducted to estimate the risk associated with uncertainty. In this study, risk values ranged from 10(-4) to 10(-8). UV-disinfected irrigation water showed a lower risk value than others, and its level was within the range of the actual paddy rice field with surface water. Agricultural activity was thought to be safer after 1-2 days, when the paddy field was irrigated with reclaimed wastewater. Also, children were found to have a greater risk of infection with E. coli. This paper should be viewed as a first step in the application of quantitative microbial risk assessment of wastewater reuse in paddy rice culture.
17072560	Most plant cells retain the capacity to differentiate into all the other cell and organ types that constitute a plant. However, genome-wide transcriptional activities underlying the process of cell differentiation are poorly understood, especially in monocot plants. Here we used a rice (Oryza sativa) cell culture system to generate somatic embryos, which were further induced into shoots and roots. The global transcriptional reorganization during the development of somatic embryos, shoots, and roots from cultured cells was studied using a rice whole genome microarray and verified by RNA blotting analysis of representative genes. Overall, only 1-3% of expressed genes were differentially regulated during each organogenesis process at the examined time point. Also metabolic pathways were minimally regulated. Thus the genes that dictating organ formation should be relatively small in number. Comparison of these three transcriptomes revealed little overlap during these three organogenesis processes. These results indicate that each organogenesis involves specific reorganization of genome expression.
17073304	The rice blast resistance (R) genes Pi2 and Piz-t confer broad-spectrum resistance against different sets of Magnaporthe grisea isolates. We first identified the Pi2 gene using a map-based cloning strategy. The Pi2 gene is a member of a gene cluster comprising nine gene members (named Nbs1-Pi2 to Nbs9-Pi2) and encodes a protein with a nucleotide-binding site and leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain. Fine genetic mapping, molecular characterization of the Pi2 susceptible mutants, and complementation tests indicated that Nbs4-Pi2 is the Pi2 gene. The Piz-t gene, a Pi2 allele in the rice cultivar Toride 1, was isolated based on the Pi2 sequence information. Complementation tests confirmed that the family member Nbs4-Piz-t is Piz-t. Sequence comparison revealed that only eight amino-acid changes, which are confined within three consecutive LRR, differentiate Piz-t from Pi2. Of the eight variants, only one locates within the xxLxLxx motif. A reciprocal exchange of the single amino acid between Pi2 and Piz-t did not convert the resistance specificity to each other but, rather, abolished the function of both resistance proteins. These results indicate that the single amino acid in the xxLxLxx motif may be critical for maintaining the recognition surface of Pi2 and Piz-t to their respective avirulence proteins.
17073305	Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is used to analyze gene function in dicotyledonous plants but less so in monocotyledonous plants (particularly rice and corn), partially due to the limited number of virus expression vectors available. Here, we report the cloning and modification for VIGS of a virus from Festuca arundinacea Schreb. (tall fescue) that caused systemic mosaic symptoms on barley, rice, and a specific cultivar of maize (Va35) under greenhouse conditions. Through sequencing, the virus was determined to be a strain of Brome mosaic virus (BMV). The virus was named F-BMV (F for Festuca), and genetic determinants that controlled the systemic infection of rice were mapped to RNAs 1 and 2 of the tripartite genome. cDNA from RNA 3 of the Russian strain of BMV (R-BMV) was modified to accept inserts from foreign genes. Coinoculation of RNAs 1 and 2 from F-BMV and RNA 3 from R-BMV expressing a portion of a plant gene to leaves of barley, rice, and maize plants resulted in visual silencing-like phenotypes. The visual phenotypes were correlated with decreased target host transcript levels in the corresponding leaves. The VIGS visual phenotype varied from maintained during silencing of actin 1 transcript expression to transient with incomplete penetration through affected tissue during silencing of phytoene desaturase expression. F-BMV RNA 3 was modified to allow greater accumulation of virus while minimizing virus pathogenicity. The modified vector C-BMV(A/G) (C for chimeric) was shown to be useful for VIGS. These BMV vectors will be useful for analysis of gene function in rice and maize for which no VIGS system is reported.
17073721	A new, simple and sensitive method for the quantitative analysis of cytochrome C (Cyt C) based on the reduction wave of guanidine modified Co(II)-Cyt C complex at about -1.74 V (vs. SCE) by single sweep polarography in the solution containing 8 x 10(-6) mol L(-1) CoCl2, 0.04 mol L(-1) guanidine hydrochloride, 0.2 mol L(-1) NaOH and 0.5% Na2SO3. The peak height is linearly proportional to the concentration of Cyt C in the range of 0.005 approximately 1.500 mg L(-1) (correlation coefficient 0.999). Common amino acids, saccharide, organic acid and metal ions of appropriate concentrations have no interference on the Cyt C determination. The released Cyt C in the process of mitochondrial permeability transition of Hong-Lian cytoplasmic male sterile line of rice has been measured by the method, and the result is satisfactory.
17075077	Plants respond to survive under water-deficit conditions via a series of physiological, cellular, and molecular processes culminating in stress tolerance. Many drought-inducible genes with various functions have been identified by molecular and genomic analyses in Arabidopsis, rice, and other plants, including a number of transcription factors that regulate stress-inducible gene expression. The products of stress-inducible genes function both in the initial stress response and in establishing plant stress tolerance. In this short review, recent progress resulting from analysis of gene expression during the drought-stress response in plants as well as in elucidating the functions of genes implicated in the stress response and/or stress tolerance are summarized. A description is also provided of how various genes involved in stress tolerance were applied in genetic engineering of dehydration stress tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis plants.
17075079	In order to assess the benefits of superior rooting ability of rice (Oryza sativa L.) for growth after transplanting under water-limiting conditions, genetic differences in the rooting ability of rice seedlings 30 d after sowing, with their visible roots either pruned or not pruned, were quantified by several root parameters 4 d after transplanting (DAT), under flooded or non-flooded paddy fields (four treatments in total), together with production traits at maturity. Ninety-eight recombinant inbred lines from the two japonica ecotypes, a lowland variety Otomemochi, and an upland variety Yumenohatamochi, were genotyped with 107 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. Otomemochi in general produced more adventitious roots, partitioned a greater proportion of biomass to roots, and had a greater increment of root dry weight (DeltaRW) at 4 DAT than Yumenohatamochi, but these variety differences were less clear under non-flooded conditions without root pruning. Several quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with rooting ability were identified mainly in chromosomes 1, 4, and 6 across the four treatments or in combined analysis. On the other hand, QTLs for DeltaRW around RM2357 in chromosome 5 and for maximum new root length in RM215-RM205 in chromosome 9 were found only under root pruning treatments and under non-flooded conditions without root pruning, respectively. Greater DeltaRW was associated with higher head dry weight per hill at maturity only in the non-flooded and root-pruning treatments. This study suggests the importance of rooting ability after transplanting and, possibly, other mechanisms for adaptation to non-flooded conditions.
17075175	A rice male-sterile mutant msp1-4 (MULTIPLE SPOROCYTE) with japonica cultivar '9522' background, was obtained in M(3) population treated with (60)Co gamma-ray. Results of genetic analysis indicated that the male-sterile phenotype was controlled by a single recessive locus. To map this locus, an F(2) population was constructed from the cross between the msp1-4 (japonica) and 'LongTeFu B' (indica). This locus was mapped between the two InDel markers, WY-4 and WY-8, with physical distance of 247 kb. A deletion with 10 base pairs between 758 bp and 767 bp in MSP1 open reading frame was confirmed by sequence analysis, which led to pre-termination of MSP1 translation. Phenotype analysis of msp1-4 indicated that it was similar to the msp1 mutant. To insight the expression change of rice anther developmental genes in this mutant, semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis was carried out. The results showed that the expression level of rice UDT1 and GAMYB were reduced in msp1-4, implying that UDT1 and GAMYB are possibly the downstream genes of MSP1 gene in rice pollen development.
17075184	A glycoprotein elicitor, CSBI, isolated from hyphal cell walls of the strain 97-151a of M. grisea race ZC(13) was purified by centrifugation, ultra-filtration, gel filtration and anion exchange chromatography (Fig.1). CSBI appeared as a single band on silver-stained SDS-PAGE (Fig.2). Anthrone-colorimetric assay and Coomassie blue G-250 staining showed that the carbohydrate-to-protein ratio was 9.32 (Table 1). The induction of peroxidase activity in incompatible interactions was stronger than in compatible interactions (P<0.05) after treatment with CSBI on rice leaves (Fig.3). The N-terminal sequence of CSBI was determined to be ITPEAMLSANCCSD, which showed high homology to a 78.671-kD hypothetical protein MG07877.4 (accession No. gi38107424) from M. grisea in NCBI databases. CSBI was either identified as hypothetical protein MG07877.4 by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) with 9 matching peptides (Fig.4, Table 2).
17075186	The enhancing resistance and decreasing incidence to sheath blight (Rhizoctonia solani) by silicon were studied from cytological and physiological aspects by using rice plants solution-cultured with silicon supplementation or with silicon-deficiency. By an environmental scanning electron coupled with X-ray microanalysis, as well as gravimetric quantification, the number of siliceous cell and Si content of the Si(+) rice leaf were much more than those of Si(-) rice leaf (Figs.1,2; Table 1). After being inoculated with R. solani MDA content in Si(+) rice plants was almost higher than that in Si(-) rice plants, SOD activity in Si(+) rice plants was always higher than that in Si(-) rice plants, SOD activity in Si(+) rice plants reached a minimum on 4 d, and POD activity was at the maximum, but POD activity in Si(-) rice plants was lower. These results suggested that silicon could enhance the harmony of SOD and POD. And silicon had no effect on CAT and PAL activity, but weaken PPO activity (Fig.3). After being inoculated with R. solani, the Si(+) rice plants had significantly lower disease index with relative control effect of 1/4 compared to the Si(-) rice plants (Table 2).
17076258	We describe the cloning and identification of a rice cDNA, OsTVLP1, encoding a protein with similarity to TGF-beta receptor interacting proteins and vacuolar assembly Vam6p/Vps39p proteins. OsTVLP1 has an open reading frame of 2955 bp, which encodes a 984 amino acid protein, containing a citron homology (CNH) domain at its N-terminal and a clathrin heavy-chain repeat homology (CLH) domain at its C-terminal. The expression of OsTVLP1 was induced by treatments with benzothiadiazole (BTH), a chemical activator of plant disease resistance responses, and by infection of the blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea. Importantly, the expression of OsTVLP1 was activated specifically in disease resistance response induced by BTH and in an incompatible interaction between rice and the blast fungus. Our observations suggest that OsTVLP1 may play a role in rice disease resistance response against pathogen infection.
17077096	Simple sequence repeats (SSRs) are abundant across genomes. However, the significance of SSRs in organellar genomes of rice has not been completely understood. The availability of organellar genome sequences allows us to understand the organization of SSRs in their genic and intergenic regions. We have analyzed SSRs in mitochondrial and chloroplast genomes of rice. We identified 2528 SSRs in the mitochondrial genome and average 870 SSRs in the chloroplast genomes. About 8.7% of the mitochondrial and 27.5% of the chloroplast SSRs were observed in the genic region. Dinucleotides were the most abundant repeats in genic and intergenic regions of the mitochondrial genome while mononucleotides were predominant in the chloroplast genomes. The rps and nad gene clusters of mitochondria had the maximum repeats, while the rpo and ndh gene clusters of chloroplast had the maximum repeats. We identified SSRs in both organellar genomes and validated in different cultivars and species.
17077182	The plant hormone auxin plays a central role in regulating many aspects of plant growth and development. This largely occurs as a consequence of changes in gene expression. The Aux/IAA genes are best characterized among the early auxin-responsive genes, which encode short-lived transcriptional repressors. In most plants examined, including Arabidopsis, soybean, and rice, the Aux/IAA genes constitute a large gene family. By screening the available databases, at least 15 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) have been identified from wheat (Triticum aestivum), which exhibit high sequence identity with Aux/IAA homologues in other species. One of these Aux/IAA genes, TaIAA1, harbouring all the four conserved domains characteristic of the Aux/IAA proteins, has been characterized in detail. The expression of TaIAA1 is light-sensitive, tissue-specific, and is induced within 15-30 min of exogenous auxin application. Also, the TaIAA1 transcript levels increase in the presence of a divalent cation, Ca(2+), and this effect is reversed by the calcium-chelating agent, EGTA. The TaIAA1 gene qualifies as the primary response gene because an increase in its transcript levels by auxin is unaffected by cycloheximide. In addition to auxin, the TaIAA1 gene is also induced by brassinosteroid, providing evidence that interplay between hormones is crucial for the regulation of plant growth and development.
17077941	Responses of net photosynthetic rates to intercellular CO(2) concentration (P (n)/C (i) curves) and photochemical characteristics were investigated in flag leaves of newly developed superhigh-yield hybrid rice (Oryza sativa L.) LiangYouPeiJiu (LYPJ) and its maternal PeiAi64S (PA64S) and paternal WuMang9311 (WM9311) lines grown in the field during the reproductive stage. The results showed that photosynthetic functions, such as the electron transport activities of photosystems and photophosphorylation, assessed in vivo from P (n)/C (i) curves under field conditions declined more or earlier than those obtained in vitro. The degradation of polypeptides of thylakoid membranes was slower than those for P (Ca=360) (light-saturated net photosynthetic rate measured at 360 mumol mol(-1)) and CE (carboxylation efficiency, obtained from the initial slope of the P (n)/C (i) curve). The initial inhibition of the PSII electron transport and oxygen-evolving activity induced by senescence occurred before the degradation of the oxygen-evolving complex. In comparison, LYPJ had intermediate photosynthetic functions in the early stage of leaf development, but greater photochemical activities in the mid and late stages. WM9311 showed a similar pattern of changes but lower values, and PA64S had higher values in the early stage but showed a faster rate of senescence than LYPJ. These findings implied that the hybrid LYPJ demonstrated intermediate photosynthetic activities between its parents in the early stage of leaf development, whereas it had higher photosynthetic activities than its parents in the mid and late stages, which may be responsible for its high yield.
17078104	A sol-gel zirconia coating was developed for the preconcentration/separation of trace Cr, Cu, Cd and Pb by capillary microextraction, and the adsorbed analytes were on-line eluted for detection using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). By immobilizing sol-gel zirconia on the inner surface of a fused-silica capillary, the sol-gel zirconia coating was simply prepared. Its adsorption properties, stability and the factors affecting the adsorption behaviors of Cr, Cu, Cd and Pb were investigated in detail. In the pH range from 7.8 to 10, the zirconia-coated capillary (35 cm x 0.15 mm) is selective towards Cr, Cu, Cd and Pb, and the analyzed ions could be desorbed quantitatively with 0.2 mL of 0.5 mol/L HNO(3) at a rate of 0.2 mL/min. With a consumption of 1.25 mL sample solution, an enrichment factor of 6.25, and detection limits (3sigma) of 9.9 pg/mL Cr, 17.9 pg/mL Cu, 4.5 pg/mL Cd and 3.7 pg/mL Pb were obtained. The precisions for nine replicate measurements of 1 ng/mL Cr, Cu, Cd and Pb were 4.9% Cr, 2.2% Cu, 2.0% Cd and 3.2% Pb (RSD), respectively. The proposed procedure has been applied to the determination of Cr, Cu, Cd and Pb in human urine, which was subjected to microwave-assisted digestion prior to analysis, and the recoveries for these elements were 89.2-101.8%. In order to validate the developed procedure, a NIES No.10-a Rice Flour-Unpolished certified reference material and a BCR No. 184 Bovine Muscle certified reference material were analyzed, and the results are in good agreement with the certified values.
17078562	Wanshan mercury mine is the largest mercury deposit in Guizhou Province of China, but there were few reports on mercury toxic effect in the mining area. In order to study the neurotoxicity of food from Wanshan mercury mine area and probe into the effect of food from Wanshan mercury miner area on the changes of brain oxidative damage and expression of c-fos gene. The rats were exposed to mercury contaminated food for 20 d. The content of malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), GSH-peroxidase (GSH-px) and Glutathione (GSH) in rat brain was measured, and the effect of mercury contaminated rice on the expression of c-fos mRNA in rat brain and the expression of c-FOS protein in cortex, hippocampus were observed using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemical methods. The results showed the levels of GSH, MDA, SOD and of GSH-dependent enzymes in the rat brain changed between exposure groups and control group; The mercury polluted rice induced significantly the expression of c-fos mRNA; the c-FOS positive cells in hippocampus and cortex of exposure groups were significant different from control group (P<0.01). It could be concluded that oxidative stress signals could contribute to the induction of immediate early genes (IEGs); free radicals and their by-products might not only cause oxidative damage, but also influenced gene expression; IEGs c-fos participated in the toxicity process of brain injury by mercury polluted food.
17078983	Proteins were extracted from maize, rice, sorghum, soybean, flax and lucerne; the weeds Abutilon theophrasti, Echinochloa crus-galli, Phalaris canariensis, Setaria faberii, Setaria viridis, Sorghum halepense and the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana and assayed for carboxylesterase activity toward a range of xenobiotics. These included the pro-herbicidal esters clodinafop-propargyl, fenoxaprop-ethyl, fenthioprop-ethyl, methyl-2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-d-methyl), bromoxynil-octanoate, the herbicide-safener cloquintocet-mexyl and the pyrethroid insecticide permethrin. Highest activities were recorded with alpha-naphthyl acetate and methylumbelliferyl acetate. Esters of p-nitrophenol were also readily hydrolysed, with turnover declining as the chain length of the acyl component increased. Activities determined with model substrates were much higher than those observed with pesticide esters and were of limited value in predicting the relative rates of hydrolysis of the crop protection agents. Substrate preferences with the herbicides were typically 2,4-d-methyl>clodinafop-propargyl>fenthioprop-ethyl, fenoxaprop-ethyl and bromoxynil-octanoate. Isoelectric focussing in conjunction with staining for esterase activity using alpha-naphthyl acetate as substrate confirmed the presence of multiple carboxylesterase isoenzymes in each plant, with major qualitative differences observed between species. The presence of serine hydrolases among the resolved isoenzymes was confirmed through their selective inhibition by the organophosphate insecticide paraoxon. Our studies identify potentially exploitable differences between crops and weeds in their ability to bioactivate herbicides by enzymic hydrolysis and also highlight the usefulness of Arabidopsis as a plant model to study xenobiotic biotransformation.
17079078	The variations among six rice cultivars in cadmium (Cd) uptake and translocation were investigated with pot soil experiments. The results showed that only a very small portion (0.73%) of Cd absorbed by rice plant was transferred into grain. With regard to plant total Cd uptake, Cd concentrations and quantity accumulations in roots, stems and leaves, the differences among the cultivars (between the largest one and the smallest one) were less than one time. But for Cd concentrations and Cd quantity accumulations in the grains, the differences were more than five and eight times, respectively. With respect to Cd distribution portions in plant organs, the diversities among the cultivars were also small in roots, stems and leaves, but much larger in grains. Grain Cd concentrations correlated positively and significantly (P<0.01) with Cd quantity accumulations in plant, Cd distribution ratios to aboveground parts, and especially with Cd distribution ratios from aboveground parts to the grain. The results indicated that Cd concentration in rice grain was governed somewhat by plant Cd uptake and the transport of Cd from root to shoot, and in a greater extent, by the transport of Cd from shoot to grain. Cd was not distributed evenly in different products after rice grain processing. The average Cd concentration in cortex (embryo) was five times more than that in chaff and polished rice. With regard to Cd quantity accumulation in the products, near 40% in cortex (embryo), 45% in polished rice and 15% in chaff averagely.
17079164	Human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4-immunoglobulin (hCTLA4I g) fusion protein, a novel immunosuppressive agent, was expressed in transgenic rice cell suspension culture and its characteristics and in vitro activities were investigated. The expression vector pMYN409 was constructed to express hCTLA4I g under the control of rice alpha-amylase 3D (RAmy3D) promoter. Transgenic calli were prepared by particle bombardment mediated transformation and were screened for hCTLA4I g expression using ELISA. Under the induction condition by sugar starvation, suspension-cultured rice cells secreted hCTLA4I g into the media up to 31.4 mg/L in flask culture. The rice-derived hCTLA4Ig (hCTLA4IgP) was purified from the culture media with affinity chromatography using protein A and compared with CHO-derived hCTLA4Ig (hCTLA4IgM). Recombinant hCTLA4IgP has molecular weight of approximately 50 kDa on SDS-PAGE under reducing condition, which is a little different from that of hCTLA4IgM probably due to the difference of carbohydrate chain structures. Purified hCTLA4IgP was biologically active and was confirmed to suppress T-cell proliferation.
17080025	The organization of chromosomes into euchromatin and heterochromatin is one of the most enigmatic aspects of genome evolution. For a long time, heterochromatin was considered to be a genomic wasteland, incompatible with gene expression. However, recent studies--primarily conducted in Drosophila melanogaster--have shown that this peculiar genomic component performs important cellular functions and carries essential genes. New research on the molecular organization, function and evolution of heterochromatin has been facilitated by the sequencing and annotation of heterochromatic DNA. About 450 predicted genes have been identified in the heterochromatin of D. melanogaster, indicating that the number of active genes is higher than had been suggested by genetic analysis. Most of the essential genes are still unknown at the molecular level, and a detailed functional analysis of the predicted genes is difficult owing to the lack of mutant alleles. Far from being a peculiarity of Drosophila, heterochromatic genes have also been found in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana, as well as in humans. The presence of expressed genes in heterochromatin seems paradoxical because they appear to function in an environment that has been considered incompatible with gene expression. In the future, genetic, functional genomic and proteomic analyses will offer powerful approaches with which to explore the functions of heterochromatic genes and to elucidate the mechanisms driving their expression.
17080241	Plants are attractive biological resources because of their ability to produce a huge variety of chemical compounds, and the familiarity of production in even the most rural settings. Genetic engineering gives plants additional characteristics and value for cultivation and post-harvest. Genetically modified (GM) plants of the "first generation" were conferred with traits beneficial to producers, whereas GM plants in subsequent "generations" are intended to provide beneficial traits for consumers. Golden Rice is a promising example of a GM plant in the second generation, and has overcome a number of obstacles for practical use. Furthermore, consumer-acceptable plants with health-promoting properties that are genetically modified using native genes are being developed. The emerging technology of metabolomics will also support the commercial realization of GM plants by providing comprehensive analyzes of plant biochemical components.
17080615	There have been few practical ways of measuring physiological determinants of rice yield. Rapid evaluation of yield determination traits may expedite breeding of high-yielding rice. Here, we report a new remote-sensing technique for the evaluation of canopy ecophysiological status under field conditions developed based on simultaneous measurements of sunlit and suddenly shaded canopy temperatures. This technique has the advantage of instantaneous estimation of aerodynamic resistance (r(a)) and canopy diffusive resistance (r(c) without measuring wind velocity. Canopy diffusive conductance (1 / r(c)) estimated by the remote sensing method was closely related to leaf stomatal conductance (g(s)) measured with a portable gas exchange system. This result supported the validity of this new method for quantitative estimation of canopy physiological characteristics. Significant genotypic differences were obtained in canopy-air temperature difference (Tc-Ta), r(c) and 1 / r(c) during the 2-week period preceding full heading for two years, and 1 / r(c) was highly correlated with crop growth rate (CGR), which was closely related to the final yield. These results suggest that 1 / r(c) can be an effective criterion for the selection of high-yielding rice genotypes, and the remote sensing technique proposed here can be a powerful tool for the rapid evaluation of 1 / r(c) under field conditions.
17081596	The effects of cultivation of rice (Oryza sativa L.) and PAH-degrading bacteria (Acinetobacter sp.) separately, and in combination, on the dissipation of spiked phenanthrene and pyrene (0, 50+50, 100+100, 200+200 mg kg(-1)) in waterlogged soil were studied using pot trials. The population of introduced PAH-degrading bacteria remained at 10(5) CFU g(-1) dry soil after 20 days of treatment with Acinetobacter sp. only, but increased to 10(6) when planted with rice simultaneously. Shoot and root biomass of rice when grown alone was adversely affected by spiked PAHs, but significantly increased by 2-55% and 8-409%, respectively, when inoculated with Acinetobacter sp.. Phenanthrene and pyrene concentrations in roots ranged from 1-27 and 20-98 mg kg(-1), respectively, while their concentrations in shoots were generally lower than 0.2 mg kg(-1). The dissipation of phenanthrene was mainly due to abiotic loss as 70-78% phenanthrene was lost from the control soil at the end of 80 days, while removal of 86-87% phenanthrene had been achieved after 40 days in the treatment co-cultivated with Acinetobacter sp. and rice. Compared with the control where only 6-15% of pyrene was removed from soil, a much higher dissipation of pyrene (43-62%) was attained for the treatments co-cultivated with Acinetobacter sp. and rice at the end of 80 days. The results demonstrated that co-cultivation of rice and PAH-degrading bacteria may have a great potential to accelerate the bioremediation process of PAH-contaminated soil under waterlogged conditions.
17081663	This paper describes the predictions of the transfer of 137Cs to rice plants following soil deposition during a non-growth season of rice by a dynamic compartment model considering the soil properties, and their comparison with experimental results. Major processes considered in the model were percolation, soil mixing by plowing, plant uptake, leaching to deep soil, fixation to clay mineral, and time-dependent growth of a plant. To consider the effects of the soil properties (pH, clay mineral, organic matter content, and exchangeable K) on plant uptake and the leaching rates of 137Cs in a root zone soil, the Absalom model was used for the present model. The 137Cs aggregated transfer factors (TFa, m2kg-1 dry plant) of rice plants for two consecutive cultivation years were obtained as a result of simulated 137Cs soil deposition experiments with 17 paddy soils of different properties, all of which were performed before transplanting of the rice. Observed 137Cs TFa values of the rice plants did not show an evident trend for the pH and clay content of the soil properties, while they increased with an increasing organic matter content and a decreasing exchangeable K concentration. Predicted 137Cs TFa values of the rice plants were found to be comparable with those observed.
17082902	Autophagy is an intracellular process for vacuolar degradation of cytoplasmic components. The molecular machinery responsible for yeast and mammalian autophagy has begun to be elucidated at the cellular level. A genome-wide search revealed significant conservation among autophagy genes in yeast and Arabidopsis. Up till now, however, there is no report about rice autophagy associated genes. Here we cloned OsAtg8 and OsAtg4 from Oryza sativa and detected their expression patterns in various tissues. Immunoblotting analysis showed that carboxyl terminus of OsAtg8 can be cleaved in yeast cell. Mutation analysis revealed that the conserved Gly117 residue of OsAtg8 was essential for its characteristic C-terminal cleavage as similar to that found in mammalian and yeast Atg8. We further proved that OsAtg8 interacted with OsAtg4, and this interaction was not affected by the conserved Gly117 mutation. Our results demonstrate that Atg8 conjugation pathway is conserved in rice and may play important roles in rice autophagy.
17083731	Diverse modeling approaches viz. neural networks and multiple regression have been followed to date for disease prediction in plant populations. However, due to their inability to predict value of unknown data points and longer training times, there is need for exploiting new prediction softwares for better understanding of plant-pathogen-environment relationships. Further, there is no online tool available which can help the plant researchers or farmers in timely application of control measures. This paper introduces a new prediction approach based on support vector machines for developing weather-based prediction models of plant diseases. Six significant weather variables were selected as predictor variables. Two series of models (cross-location and cross-year) were developed and validated using a five-fold cross validation procedure. For cross-year models, the conventional multiple regression (REG) approach achieved an average correlation coefficient (r) of 0.50, which increased to 0.60 and percent mean absolute error (%MAE) decreased from 65.42 to 52.24 when back-propagation neural network (BPNN) was used. With generalized regression neural network (GRNN), the r increased to 0.70 and %MAE also improved to 46.30, which further increased to r = 0.77 and %MAE = 36.66 when support vector machine (SVM) based method was used. Similarly, cross-location validation achieved r = 0.48, 0.56 and 0.66 using REG, BPNN and GRNN respectively, with their corresponding %MAE as 77.54, 66.11 and 58.26. The SVM-based method outperformed all the three approaches by further increasing r to 0.74 with improvement in %MAE to 44.12. Overall, this SVM-based prediction approach will open new vistas in the area of forecasting plant diseases of various crops. Our case study demonstrated that SVM is better than existing machine learning techniques and conventional REG approaches in forecasting plant diseases. In this direction, we have also developed a SVM-based web server for rice blast prediction, a first of its kind worldwide, which can help the plant science community and farmers in their decision making process. The server is freely available at http://www.imtech.res.in/raghava/rbpred/.
17084493	Time-dependent changes in enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants, and lipid peroxidation were investigated in roots of rice (Oryza sativa) grown hydroponically with Cd, with or without pretreatment of salicylic acid (SA). Exposure to 50 microM Cd significantly decreased root growth, and activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and peroxidase (POD), but increased the concentrations of H(2)O(2), malondialdehyde (MDA), ascorbic acid (AsA), glutathione (GSH) and non-protein thiols (NPT). However, pretreatment with 10 microM SA enhanced the activities of antioxidant enzymes and the concentrations of non-enzymatic antioxidants, but lowered the concentrations of H(2)O(2) and MDA in the Cd-stressed rice compared with the Cd treatment alone. Pretreatment with SA alleviated the Cd-induced inhibition of root growth. The results showed that pretreatment with SA enhanced the antioxidant defense activities in Cd-stressed rice, thus alleviating Cd-induced oxidative damage and enhancing Cd tolerance. The possible mechanism of SA-induced H(2)O(2) signaling in mediating Cd tolerance was discussed.
1708498	The entire nucleotide sequences of the rice, tobacco and liverwort chloroplast genomes have been determined. We compared all the chloroplast genes, open reading frames and spacer regions in the plastid genomes of these three species in order to elucidate general structural features of the chloroplast genome. Analyses of homology, GC content and codon usage of the genes enabled us to classify them into two groups: photosynthesis genes and genetic system genes. Based on comparisons of homology, GC content and codon usage, unidentified ORFs can also be assigned to each of these groups such that it is possible to speculate about the functions of products which may be produced by these ORFs. The spacer regions and intron sequences were compared and found to have no obvious homology between rice and liverwort or between tobacco and liverwort.
17086413	The strain Aspergillus fumigatus XC6 isolated from mildewing rice straw was evaluated for its ability to decolorize a dye industry effluent. The strain was capable of decolorizing dyes effluent over a pH range 3.0-8.0 with the dyes as sole carbon and nitrogen sources. The optimum pH was 3.0; however, supplemented with either appropriate nitrogen sources (0.2% NH(4)Cl or (NH(4))(2)SO(4)) or carbon sources (1.0% sucrose or potato starch), the strain decolorized the effluent completely at the original pH of the dyes effluent. Therefore, A. fumigatus XC6 is an efficient strain for the decolorization of reactive textile dyes effluents, and it might be a practical alternative in dyeing wastewater treatment.
17086445	The CW-cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) line has the cytoplasm of Oryza rufipogon Griff, and mature pollen is morphologically normal under an optical microscope but lacks the ability to germinate; restorer gene Rf17 has been identified as restoring this ability. The difference between nuclear gene expression in mature anthers was compared for the CW-CMS line, [cms-CW] rf17rf17, and a maintainer line with normal cytoplasm of Oryza sativa L., [normal] rf17rf17. Using a 22-k rice oligoarray we detected 58 genes that were up-regulated more than threefold in the CW-CMS line. Expression in other organs was further investigated for 20 genes using RT-PCR. Five genes, including genes for alternative oxidase, were found to be preferentially expressed in [cms-CW] rf17rf17 but not in [normal] rf17rf17 or [cms-CW] Rf17Rf17. Such [cms-CW] rf17rf17-specific gene expression was only observed in mature anthers but not in leaves, stems, or roots, indicating the presence of anther-specific mitochondrial retrograde regulation of nuclear gene expression, and that Rf17 has a role in restoring the ectopic gene expression. We also used a proteomic approach to discover the retrograde regulated proteins and identified six proteins that were accumulated differently. These results reveal organ-specific induced mitochondrial retrograde pathways affecting nuclear gene expression possibly related to CMS.
17087462	Although circumnutation occurs widely in higher plants, its mechanism is little understood. The idea that circumnutation is based on gravitropism has long been investigated, but the reported results have been controversial. We used dark-grown coleoptiles of rice (Oryza sativa L.) to re-investigate this issue. The following results supported the existence of a close relationship between gravitropism and circumnutation: (1) circumnutation disappears on a horizontal clinostat; (2) circumnutation is interrupted by a gravitropic response and re-initiated at a definable phase after gravitropic curvature; (3) circumnutation can be re-established by submergence and a brief gravitropic stimulation in the coleoptiles that have stopped nutating in response to red light; and (4) lazy mutants show no circumnutation. In spite of these results, however, there were cases in which gravitropism and circumnutation could be separated. Firstly, the non-circumnutating lazy coleoptile showed nearly a wild-type level of gravitropic responsiveness in its upper half, although this part was an active site of both gravitropism and circumnutation in wild-type coleoptiles. Secondly, coleoptiles could nutate without overshooting the vertical when developing phototropic curvature. It is concluded that gravitropism influences, but it is not directly involved in the process of circumnutation. It is further suggested that a gravity signal, shared with gravitropism, contributes to the maintenance of circumnutation.
17088362	Under NaCl-dominated salt stress, the key to plant survival is maintaining a low cytosolic Na(+) level or Na(+)/K(+) ratio. The OsHKT1, OsHKT2, and OsVHA transporter genes might play important roles in maintaining cytosolic Na(+) homeostasis in rice (Oryza sativa L. indica cvs Pokkali and BRRI Dhan29). Upon NaCl stress, the OsHKT1 transcript was significantly down-regulated in salt-tolerant cv. Pokkali, but not in salt-sensitive cv. BRRI Dhan29. NaCl stress induced the expression of OsHKT2 and OsVHA in both Pokkali and BRRI Dhan29. In cv. Pokkali, OsHKT2 and OsVHA transcripts were induced immediately after NaCl stress. However, in cv. BRRI Dhan29, the induction of OsHKT2 was quite low and of OsVHA was low and delayed, compared with that in cv. Pokkali. OsHKT2 and OsVHA induction mostly occurred in the phloem, in the transition from phloem to mesophyll cells, and in the mesophyll cells of the leaves. The vacuolar area in cv. Pokkali did not change under either short- (5-10 min) or long-term (24 h) salt stress, although it significantly increased 24 h after the stress in cv. BRRI Dhan29. When expressional constructs of VHA-c and VHA-a with YFP and CFP were introduced into isolated protoplasts of cvs Pokkali and BRRI Dhan29, the fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) efficiency between VHA-c and VHA-a upon salt stress decreased slightly in cv. Pokkali, but increased significantly in cv. BRRI Dhan29. The results suggest that the salt-tolerant cv. Pokkali regulates the expression of OsHKT1, OsHKT2, and OsVHA differently from how the salt-sensitive cv. BRRI Dhan29 does. Together, these proteins might confer salt tolerance in Pokkali by maintaining a low cytosolic Na(+) level and a correct ratio of cytosolic Na(+)/K(+).
17088651	Plant pollens are the most common cause of seasonal allergic disease. The number of patients undergoing treatment for allergies to the pollen of Japanese cedar (major antigens: Cry j 1 and Cry j 2) has increased steadily each year. Integration of an effective, safe and inexpensive clinical program would be greatly improved by addressing deficiencies in systemically delivered immunotherapy. We have demonstrated that feeding mice transgenic rice seeds accumulating the T-cell epitope peptides of Cry j 1 and Cry j 2 before systemic challenge with total protein of cedar pollen inhibits the development of allergen-specific IgE, IgG and CD4 T-cell proliferative responses. The levels of allergen-specific CD4 T-cell-derived allergy-associated T-helper 2 cytokine of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 and histamine release in serum were also significantly decreased. Moreover, clinical symptoms were inhibited in an experimental sneezing-mouse model. Plant-based edible vaccine has been shown to be effective for treatment of Japanese cedar pollinosis. When rice seeds containing T-cell epitopes derived from cedar pollen allergens were orally administered to mice, immune tolerance leading to reduction of allergen-specific IgE, T-cell proliferative reaction and histamine could be induced, resulting in suppression of allergic-specific symptoms such as sneezing.
17089164	The flavones apigenin and tricin, which occur in leafy vegetables and rice bran, respectively, possess cancer chemopreventive properties in preclinical rodent models. Their pharmacology is only poorly understood. We compared their tissue levels in mice in vivo and their metabolism in liver fractions in vitro. Mice received apigenin or tricin (0.2%) with their diet for 5-7 days, and flavone levels were compared in the plasma, liver and gastrointestinal mucosa using HPLC-UV. Flavone metabolism was investigated in murine and human liver microsomes or cytosol in vitro co-incubated with uridine 5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid or 3'-phosphoadenosine-5' phosphosulfate. Flavone metabolites were characterized by on-line HPLC-mass spectrometry. After dietary administration of flavones for 7 days, levels of tricin in plasma, liver and mucosa exceeded those of apigenin by 350, 33 and 100%, respectively. Apigenin was more rapidly glucuronidated than tricin in liver microsomes, whilst tricin underwent swifter sulfonation than apigenin in liver cytosol. For either flavone the rate of glucuronidation was much faster than that of sulfonation. Flavone monoglucuronides and monosulfates were identified as metabolites in microsomal and cytosolic incubations, respectively. When consumed with the diet in mice tricin seems to be more available than apigenin in blood and tissues. Differences in their glucuronidation may account for their differential availability. Thus tricin may have a pharmacokinetic advantage over apigenin. This type of information may help decide which flavonoids to select for clinical development.
17089181	The male-produced sex pheromone from the Brazilian rice stalk stink bug Tibraca limbativentris is reported. Olfactometer bioassays with sexually mature males and females showed that males attracted females, which suggests that males release a sex pheromone. Males were not attracted to either sex, nor were females attractive to conspecific females. Attraction of the females to males was highest at night. The headspace volatiles collected from male and female bugs were analyzed by gas chromatography (GC) and GC-mass spectrometry. Two male-specific compounds were identified as isomers of 1'S-zingiberenol, whereas a series of defensive compounds were identified in extracts from both sexes. Zingiberenol has three chiral centers, and the nonselective syntheses used produced two groups of isomers, zingiberenol I containing four isomers, namely (1RS,4RS,1'R)-4-(1',5'-dimethylhex-4'-enyl)-1-methylcyclohex-2-en-1-ol, and zingiberenol II containing the other four isomers, namely (1RS,4RS,1'S)-4-(1',5'-dimethylhex-4'-enyl)-1-methylcyclohex-2-en-1-ol. Both groups of stereoisomers were more attractive than hexane controls. The absolute configuration of the insect-produced pheromonal components remains to be elucidated, but the 1'S stereochemistry was established for at least one of the isomers.
17090480	This report addresses the safety of cosmetic ingredients derived from rice, Oryza sativa. Oils, Fatty Acids, and Waxes: Rice Bran Oil functions in cosmetics as a conditioning agent--occlusive in 39 formulations across a wide range of product types. Rice Germ Oil is a skin-conditioning agent--occlusive in six formulations in only four product categories. Rice Bran Acid is described as a surfactant-cleansing agent, but was not in current use. Rice Bran Wax is a skin-conditioning agent--occlusive in eight formulations in five product categories. Industry did not directly report any use of Rice Bran Wax. Hydrogenated Rice Bran Wax is a binder, skin-conditioning agent--occlusive, and viscosity-increasing agent--nonaqueous in 11 formulations in six product categories. Rice Bran Oil had an oral LD50 of > 5 g/kg in white rats and Rice Wax had an oral LD50 of > 24 g/kg in male mice. A three-generation oral dosing study reported no toxic or teratologic effects in albino rats fed 10% Rice Bran Oil compared to a control group fed Peanut Oil. Undiluted Rice Bran Oil, Rice Germ Oil, and Hydrogenated Rice Bran Wax were not irritants in animal skin tests. Rice Bran Oil was not a sensitizer. Rice Bran Oil, Rice Germ Oil, Rice Wax, and Hydrogenated Rice Bran Wax were negative in ocular toxicity assays. A mixture of Rice Bran Oil and Rice Germ Oil had a ultraviolet (UV) absorption maximum at 315 nm, but was not phototoxic in a dermal exposure assay. Rice Bran Oil was negative in an Ames assay, and a component, gamma-oryzanol, was negative in bacterial and mammalian mutagenicity assays. Rice oils, fatty acids, and waxes were, at most, mildly irritating in clinical studies. Extracts: Rice Bran Extract is used in six formulations in four product categories. Rice Extract is a hair-conditioning agent, but was not in current use. Hydrolyzed Rice Extract is used in four formulations and current concentration of use data were provided for other uses. Hydrolyzed Rice Bran Extract, described as a skin-conditioning agent--miscellaneous, is used in two product categories. Use concentrations are in the 1% to 2% range. Rice Bran Extract is comprised of proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, mineral ash, and water. The content includes palmitic, stearic, oleic, and linoleic acids. Other components include antioxidants such as tocopherols. Rice Extract reduced the cytotoxicity of sodium chloride in male rats. Bran, Starch and Powder: Rice Bran (identified as rice hulls) is an abrasive and bulking agent in one formulation. Rice Starch is an absorbent and bulking agent in 51 formulations across a wide range of product categories. Rice Germ Powder is an abrasive and one manufacturer described an exfoliant use, but it was not reported to be used in 2002. Oral carcinogenicity studies done on components of Rice Bran (phytic acid and gamma-oryzanol) were negative. Rice Bran did not have an anticarcinogenic effect on 1,2-dimethylhydrazine-induced large bowel tumors. In cocarcinogenicity studies done using 1,2-dimethylhydrazine and other agents, with Rice Bran Oil and Rice Bran-derived hemicellulose and saccharide, tumor inhibition was observed; gamma-oryzanol did not inhibit the development of neoplasms. A decrease in cutaneous lesions in atopic dermatitis patients was reported following bathing with a Rice Bran preparation. Proteins: Hydrolyzed Rice Bran Protein and Hydrolyzed Rice Protein function as conditioning agents (hair or skin), but only the latter was reported to be used in a few products. An in vitro phototoxicity assay using UVA light found no photochemical toxicity. Rice bran protein hydrolysates are not acutely toxic, are not skin or ocular irritants in animals, are not skin sensitizers in guinea pig maximization tests, and are not irritating or sensitizing in clinical tests. Isolated cases of allergy to raw rice have been reported, but rice, in general, is considered non allergenic. The Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel considered that safety test data available on certain of these ingredients could be extrapolated to the entire group. Although Rice Bran Extract does contain UV absorbing compounds at low concentrations, clinical experience suggested no phototoxicity would be associated with such materials. Rice derived ingredients generally are considered to be non allergenic. There were no safety test data available for Hydrolyzed Rice Extract and Hydrolyzed Rice Bran Extract, but their safety may be inferred from that of the extracts from which they are derived. Current levels of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and heavy metals in rice-derived ingredients used in cosmetics are not a safety concern. The Panel was concerned, however, that contaminants such as pesticides have been reported in Rice Bran Oil used for cooking. Pesticides and heavy metals should not exceed currently reported levels for rice-derived cosmetic ingredients. The CIR Expert Panel concluded that these rice-derived ingredients are safe as cosmetic ingredients in the practices of use and concentrations as described in this safety assessment.
17090944	A highly sensitive and selective analytical method was developed to determine levels of acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA in plant tissues. The analytical method includes a convenient extraction method for plant samples and a new LC-MS/MS technique utilizing an ion pair reagent. These acyl-CoAs, present in germinating rice seeds, were then determined by the method developed. It was found that the concentrations of both acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA increased with time during the germination of rice seeds and also increased at the elevated cultivation temperatures among tested. These results reflect the development of enzymes that produce these acyl-CoAs in germinating rice seeds.
17091197	Drought is one of the most significant abiotic stresses that influence plant growth and development. Expression analysis revealed that OsNRT1.3, a putative nitrate transporter gene in rice, was induced by drought. To confirm if the OsNRT1.3 promoter can respond to drought stress, a 2019 bp upstream sequence of OsNRT1.3 was cloned. Three OsNRT1.3 promoter fragments were generated by 5'-deletion, and fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. The chimeric genes were introduced into rice plants. NRT2019::GUS, NRT1196::GUS and NRT719::GUS showed similar expression patterns in seeds, roots, leaves and flowers in all transgenic rice, and GUS activity conferred by different OsNRT1.3 promoter fragments was significantly upregulated by drought stress, indicating that OsNRT1.3 promoter responds to drought stress and the 719 bp upstream sequence of OsNRT1.3 contains the drought response elements.
17092095	The reaction S(3P)+OCS in Ar was investigated over the pressure range of 50-710 Torr and the temperature range of 298-985 K with the laser photolysis technique. S atoms were generated by photolysis of OCS with light at 248 nm from a KrF excimer laser; their concentration was monitored via resonance fluorescence excited by atomic emission of S produced from microwave-discharged SO2. At pressures less than 250 Torr, our measurements give k(298 K)=(2.7+/-0.5)x10(-15) cm3 molecule-1 s-1, in satisfactory agreement with a previous report by Klemm and Davis [J. Phys. Chem. 78, 1137 (1974)]. New data determined for 407-985 K connect rate coefficients reported previously for T>or=860 and T<or=478 K and show a non-Arrhenius behavior. Combining our results with data reported at high temperatures, we derived an expression k(T)=(6.1+/-0.3)x10(-18) T1.97+/-0.24 exp[-(1560+/-170)/T] cm3 molecule-1 s-1 for 298<or=TK<or=1680. At 298 K and P>or=500 Torr, the reaction rate was enhanced. Theoretical calculations at the G2M(CC2) level, using geometries optimized with the B3LYP6-311+G(3df) method, yield energies of transition states and products relative to those of the reactants. Rate coefficients predicted with multichannel Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) calculations agree satisfactorily with experimental observations. According to our calculations, the singlet channel involving formation of SSCO followed by direct dissociation into S2(a 1Deltag)+CO dominates below 2000 K; SSCO is formed via intersystem crossing from the triplet surface. At low temperature and under high pressure the stabilization of OCS2, formed via isomerization of SSCO, becomes important; its formation and further reaction with S atoms partially account for the observed increase in the rate coefficient under such conditions.
17092317	Rice tillering is an important agronomic trait for grain production. The HIGH-TILLERING DWARF1 (HTD1) gene encodes an ortholog of Arabidopsis MAX3. Complementation analyses for HTD1 confirm that the defect in HTD1 is responsible for both high-tillering and dwarf phenotypes in the htd1 mutant. The rescue of the Arabidopsis max3 mutant phenotype by the introduction of Pro(35S):HTD1 indicates HTD1 is a carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase that has the same function as MAX3 in synthesis of a carotenoid-derived signal molecule. The HTD1 gene is expressed in both shoot and root tissues. By evaluating Pro(HTD1):GUS expression, we found that the HTD1 gene is mainly expressed in vascular bundle tissues throughout the plant. Auxin induction of HTD1 expression suggests that auxin may regulate rice tillering partly through upregulation of HTD1 gene transcription. Restoration of dwarf phenotype after the removal of axillary buds indicates that the dwarfism of the htd1 mutant may be a consequence of excessive tiller production. In addition, the expression of HTD1, D3 and OsCCD8a in the htd1 and d3 mutants suggests a feedback mechanism may exist for the synthesis and perception of the carotenoid-derived signal in rice. Characterization of MAX genes in Arabidopsis, and identification of their orthologs in pea, petunia and rice indicates the existence of a conserved mechanism for shoot-branching regulation in both monocots and dicots.
17092381	The objective of the present study was to investigate the association between food patterns and anaemia among Chinese adults. It was a cross-sectional household survey undertaken in 2002. The sample contained 2849 men and women aged 20 years and above, and had a response rate of 89.0 %. Factor analysis was used to identify food patterns based on a food-frequency questionnaire. Logistic regression was used to relate food patterns to anaemia. A four-factor solution explained 30.5 % of the total variance. After adjusting for socio-demographic factors and four distinct food patterns, the 'traditional' (rice, vegetable, wheat flour), 'sweet tooth' (drinks, cake) and 'healthy' (whole grains, fruits, vegetables) patterns were independently associated with anaemia. 'Traditional' and 'sweet tooth' patterns were positively associated with anaemia, whereas the association with 'healthy' food pattern was negative. No association was observed between the 'macho' pattern (meat and alcohol) and anaemia. Compared with the lowest quartile (Q1) of the 'traditional' pattern, the highest quartile (Q4) had a higher risk of anaemia (men: odds ratio (OR) 2.60, 95 % CI 1.38, 4.88; women: OR 3.40, 95 % CI 2.14, 5.39). For the 'sweet tooth' pattern, compared with the lowest quartile (Q1), the OR of the highest quartile was 2.34 (95 % CI 1.47, 3.73) for men and 2.02 (95 %CI 1.31, 3.13) for women. The fourth quartile of healthy food was associated with a lower risk of anaemia (men: OR 0.50, 95 % CI 0.31, 0.79; women: OR 0.51, 95 % CI 0.34, 0.75). Women in the north had a higher risk of anaemia (OR 2.49, 95 %CI 1.80, 3.43). Food patterns were associated with anaemia in this area with a high prevalence of anaemia.
17092730	Spined conidia and hyphae of Ustilaginoidea virens were examined by light and electron microscopy. Bright-field light microscopy showed that conidia were round to elliptical and warty on the surface with diameters approximately ranging from 3 to 5 microm. Scanning electron microscopy revealed the globose to irregularly rounded and ornamented conidia with prominent spines. The spines were pointed at the apex or irregularly curved, and approximately 200-500 nm long. Ultrastructure of spined conidia and hyphae revealed by transmission electron microscopy showed lipid globules and vacuoles in the cytoplasm enclosed by an electron-transparent cell wall. Conspicuous electron-dense spines were evident on the surface of conidia, and had obclavate or irregularly protruding shapes with varying heights along the conidial cell wall. Microfibrillar structures with stretching or branching patterns were evident in the spine matrix. Some conidia were interconnected by spines from the neighboring conidia by their extended outgrowth. Hyphae had concentric bodies that showed an electron-transparent core surrounded by an electron-dense layer. One or more intrahyphal hyphae were found in hyphal cytoplasm. The fungus is thought to form concentric bodies and intrahyphal hyphae as survival mechanisms against the water- and nutrient-deficient environments that may occur in the necrotic regions of host plants.
1709277	The transgenic tobacco plants have been generated that express the E. coli beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene under control of the promoter from the rice proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA, DNA polymerase auxiliary protein) gene. GUS expression detected in situ by staining with the chromogenic substrate, 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D-glucuronide (X-Gluc), was restricted to meristems in the organs of the transgenic tobacco plants. This expression responded to the phytohormones which promote callus formation. Furthermore, in situ thymidine uptake showed that the GUS expression pattern corresponded well to the active sites of DNA synthesis. Deletion analysis of the 5' upstream sequence confined the GUS expression pattern to a fragment extending 263 bp upstream of the transcription start site of the rice PCNA gene. Thus, we have identified this fragment as a main regulatory element of the rice PCNA gene promoter.
17093178	The nutritional determinants of hypertension in Bangladesh and other low-income countries are largely unknown. We assessed the associations of general hypertension with nutrient intakes and diet patterns in Bangladesh. This was a cross-sectional analysis of 11 116 participants enrolled in the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study in Bangladesh. Dietary intakes were measured by use of a validated food-frequency questionnaire. Three major dietary patterns were identified by using principal component analysis: 1) the "balanced" pattern, which was characterized by rice, some meat, small fish, fruit, and vegetables; 2) the "animal protein" pattern, which was more heavily weighted on meat, milk, poultry, eggs, bread, large fish, and fruit; and 3) the "gourd and root vegetable" pattern, which consisted largely of squashes and root and leafy vegetables. Adjusted prevalence odds ratios for general hypertension in increasing quintiles of balanced pattern scores were 1.00 (reference), 0.81 (95% CI: 0.79, 0.97), 0.82 (0.68, 0.97), 0.79 (0.66, 0.94), and 0.71 (0.59, 0.85) (P for trend < 0.01). Prevalence odds ratios for general hypertension in increasing quintiles of animal protein pattern scores were 1.00 (reference), 1.30 (1.01, 1.52), 1.20 (1.01, 1.47), 1.22 (1.00, 1.44), and 1.21 (1.03, 1.49) (P for trend = 0.23). Markers of high socioeconomic status were positively associated with the animal protein pattern. Our findings suggest the importance of dietary patterns in general hypertension in a low-income population undergoing the early stage of the epidemiologic transition.
17093304	The integrity of a subcellular proteome such as the nucleus, is largely dependent on purification of the isolated compartment away from other cellular contaminants. The separation of high-purity nuclei from plants is a difficult task. However, successful purification has been achieved through a series of fractionation processes. Initially, centrifugation in a 2.0 M sucrose density gradient (1) or a percoll density gradient (2) was used to isolate nuclei from cultured rice suspension cells. A modified version of the sucrose gradient method described in Morre and Anderson (1) has proved to be more rapid and efficient for the isolation of nuclei from cultured rice suspension cells. The nuclei are uniform spheres with an average diameter of approx 20 microm. The nuclear proteins were prepared from the purified nuclei using lysis buffer (3) or SDS sample buffer (4). The purity of the isolated nuclear fraction was evaluated by Western blot analysis using antihistone H1 antibody, a specific antibody for nuclear proteins. Histone H1 was found in the nuclear fraction, but not in the supernatant fraction, suggesting that the preparation is enriched in nuclear proteins.
17093316	In this chapter we present a detailed protocol for the large-scale identification of proteins present in rice leaf and root tissue samples using 2D liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry of protein extracts. This is performed using biphasic (strong cation exchange/reversed phase) columns with integral electrospray emitters operating at nanoliter flow rates, a technique known by the acronym Mudpit (for multidimensional protein identification technique). The protocol involves harvesting of leaves and roots from rice plants, preparing protein extracts from the harvested tissues, preparing proteolytic digests of the extracted proteins, making a biphasic capillary column with an integral electrospray emitter, performing two-dimensional chromatographic separation of peptides with data-dependent tandem mass spectrometry, and the use of database searching of the acquired tandem mass spectra to identify peptides and proteins. This protocol is adaptable for use with a wide variety of plant materials and can be used to identify large numbers of proteins present in a specific tissue, organ, organelle, or other subcellular fraction. In addition to the detailed protocol, we also present the results of a representative experiment showing the identification of more than 1000 distinct proteins from rice leaf and root samples in two Mupdit experiments.
17093323	The application of proteomics methods, such as the protein microarray technology, in plant science has been strongly supported by the completion of genome sequencing projects of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. In this chapter we describe a method to generate plant protein microarrays and to use them for characterizing monoclonal antibodies or polyclonal sera with regard to their specificity and cross-reactivity. The method starts with characterized E. coli cDNA expression clones encoding His-tagged plant proteins. After expression and purification of these recombinant proteins in high throughput, protein microarrays are generated utilizing a contact printer. For the detection of the recombinant proteins on the microarrays, an anti-RGS-His6 antibody is used. To characterize specific antibodies, the microarrays are incubated with the respective antibody solutions followed by fluorescently labeled secondary antibodies. Signal detection is performed by means of an arrayscanner system. Protein microarrays containing the whole proteome of a plant will represent the ideal format to test antibody specificity and cross-reactivity in the future.
17093456
17094807	Genetic maps are based on recombination of orthologous gene sequences between different strains of the same species. Therefore, it was unexpected to find extensive non-collinearity of genes between different inbred strains of maize. Interestingly, disruption of gene collinearity can be caused among others by a rolling circle-type copy and paste mechanism facilitated by Helitrons. However, understanding the role of this type of gene amplification has been hampered by the lack of finding intact gene sequences within Helitrons. By aligning two haplotypes of the z1C1 locus of maize we found a Helitron that contains two genes, one encoding a putative cytidine deaminase and one a hypothetical protein with part of a 40S ribosomal protein. The cytidine deaminase gene, called ZmCDA3, has been copied from the ZmCDA1 gene on maize chromosome 7 about 4.5 million years ago (mya) after maize was formed by whole-genome duplication from two progenitors. Inbred lines contain gene copies of both progenitors, the ZmCDA1 and ZmCDA2 genes. Both genes diverged when the progenitors of maize split and are derived from the same progenitor as the rice OsCDA1 gene. The ZmCDA1 and ZmCDA2 genes are both transcribed in leaf and seed tissue, but transcripts of the paralogous ZmCDA3 gene have not been found yet. Based on their protein structure the maize CDA genes encode a nucleoside deaminase that is found in bacterial systems and is distinct from the mammalian RNA and/or DNA modifying enzymes. The conservation of a paralogous gene sequence encoding a cytidine deaminase gene over 4.5 million years suggests that Helitrons could add functional gene sequences to new chromosomal positions and thereby create new haplotypes. However, the function of such paralogous gene copies cannot be essential because they are not present in all maize strains. However, it is interesting to note that maize hybrids can outperform their inbred parents. Therefore, certain haplotypes may function only in combination with other haplotypes or under specialized environmental conditions.
17096003	Fly ash samples from a mixed hazardous waste (MHW) incinerator were subjected to solidification and stabilization (S/S) studies using ordinary Portland cement (OPC) as the binder. Additives (i.e., activated carbon and rice husk) were also homogenized with the binder and waste to determine the effectiveness of the immobilization of heavy metals. The toxicity characteristics leaching procedure (TCLP), Japanese Leaching Test (JLT-13) and the American Nuclear Test 16.1 (modified) ANS 16.1 were used to gauge the leaching of heavy metals from the solidified matrixes. Compressibility strength of the solidified matrixes was also tested using the American Standard Testing Material (ASTM) test procedure for the compressive strength of hydraulic cement mortars.
17096211	Genetic manipulation of carotenoid biosynthesis in higher plants has been the objective of a number of biotechnology programs, e.g. the Golden Rice Program. However, tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.), which naturally accumulates lycopene in fruits, has attracted the attention of many groups who have manipulated it to increase or diversify carotenoid accumulation. One of the most significant achievements was "HighCaro (HC)," a transgenic tomato plant constitutively expressing the tomato lycopene beta-cyclase (tLcy-b), that produces orange fruits due to the complete conversion of lycopene to beta-carotene. In this article we report the results of a field trial conducted in Metaponto (Italy) on HC and on two control genotypes to evaluate the stability of the transgenic trait and their yield performances. Transcriptional regulation of eight genes involved in carotenogenesis was assayed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis on fruits collected at four distinct development stages. Statistical analysis results demonstrated that in field conditions the transgene maintained its ability to induce the conversion of lycopene to beta-carotene. Moreover, agronomic performances and fruit quality in the transgenic line were not impaired by this metabolic disturbance. Results of qRT-PCR analysis suggested that transcription of PSY-1, PDS and ZDS genes were developmentally regulated in both genotypes. Unexpectedly, Lcy-b expression in transgenic fruits was also developmentally regulated, despite the fact that the gene was driven by a constitutive promoter. Our data provide evidence that in photosynthetic cells a strict and aspecific mechanism controls the level of transcripts until the onset of chromoplasts differentiation, at which point a gene-specific control on transcription takes place.
17096830	Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar, is located at an altitude of over 1,200 m. The environment at this altitude is not particularly favourable to malaria transmission, but malaria nonetheless remains a major public health problem. The aim of this study was to evaluate exposure to malaria in the urban population of Antananarivo, by measuring the specific seroprevalence of Plasmodium falciparum. Serological studies specific for P. falciparum were carried out with an indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT). In a representative population of Antananarivo, 1,059 healthy volunteers were interviewed and serum samples were taken. The seroprevalence of IgG+IgA+IgM was 56.1% and that of IgM was 5.9%. The major risk factor associated with a positive IgG+IgA+IgM IFAT was travel outside Antananarivo, whether in the central highlands or on the coast. The abundance of rice fields in certain urban districts was not associated with a higher seroprevalence. Malaria transmission levels are low in Antananarivo, but seroprevalence is high. Humans come into contact with the parasite primarily when travelling outside the city. Further studies are required to identify indigenous risk factors and intra-city variations more clearly.
17097001	To investigate water exposure modes and times of different populations in mountainous schistosomiasis endemic areas and to inform about the control strategies. All 1054 residents from populations around Qionghai Lake were randomly sampled according to occupation for a retrospective questionnaire survey in November 2001. Each individual was interviewed for his/her mode, frequency, and duration of water exposure occurring between April and October 2001. The average exposure times and intensity were higher in farmers (median: 16 - 18 min/day and 2.41 - 2.5, respectively) who grow rice, tobacco, and vegetables than others (median: 3.74 - 7.39 min/day and 0.81 - 1.52, respectively); exposure frequency was found highest in farmers (median: 2.04 times/day) in all occupations; schoolchildren had low exposure frequency and times, but very high exposure intensity (median 2.34). Between April and June it is an agriculturally busy season, that is also a peak season of water exposure of adults. Schoolchildren's water exposure peaks on July and August, mainly due to playing water and swimming. Exposure times and intensities were higher in females than in males. Water exposure modes, times, and intensities of different populations were different in mountainous schistosomiasis endemic areas of Xichang. Between April and June should be the peak infection season of adults who are engaging in agricultural activities, while July to August should be the peak infection season for schoolchildren with non-agricultural activities.
17097671	A simple, practical technique is presented for the selective determination and measurement of histamine (HA) levels in fermented food. The method involved a solid-phase extraction cleanup using a Sep-Pak Plus C-18 cartridge and ion-paired reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic (IP-RP-HPLC) separation, followed by detection of HA at its UV absorbance wavelength of 220nm. After evaporating a methanolic extract from the food sample, the resulting residue was reconstituted with 0.2M phosphate buffer (pH 3.0), and subsequently passed through the cartridge. The aliquot of the solution which came out of the cartridge was chromatographed in IP-RP mode on a C-18 column, as the stationary phase, and with a solution of 0.2M phosphate buffer (pH 3.0)-acetonitrile-water (1:24:166, v/v) containing 2mM sodium 1-octane sulfonic acid, as the mobile phase. When this method was applied to a mixture of HA, Cadaverine (Cad), Putrescine (Put), Serotonin (5HT), and Tyramine (Tyr), only HA was detected at 16.4min of retention time. The method was fully validated and validation parameters were: linearity range 2-1000ppm; correlation coefficient >0.991; mean recovery >99.5%; limit of quantification 2ppm and limit of detection 0.5ppm. The method was next applied to 12 brands of Miso (fermented soybean paste), 9 brands of Sake (rice wine), and 5 brands of Shouyu (Japanese soy sauce) to verify its ability to detect the presence of HA in a variety of fermented foods. The method proved to be both rapid and accurate and is therefore recommended for use in HA pollution surveys and in the routine practice of food-quality control.
17098434	Removal behaviour of rice hulls was assessed for the removal of Cs-134 from aqueous solutions. Results obtained from batch-type experiments revealed that relatively low uptake of Cs(I) was favoured with increasing the sorptive concentration (from 1 x 10(-8) to 1 x 10(-2) molL(-1)), temperature (298-328), and pH (2.40-10.20). The concentration dependence data fitted well for Freundlich adsorption isotherm. Thermodynamic parameters revealed that the uptake process was endothermic and proceeded via 'ion exchange' along with 'surface complexation'. Moreover, the adsorbed species were not to be desorbed into the bulk concentration even at elevated temperatures, i.e., up to 328 K hence forming a stable adsorption phase. Further, the radiation stability of the rice hulls samples was also assessed by exposing it towards 300 mCi neutron source having the neutron flux of ca. 3.85 x 10(6) ncm(-2)s(-1) associated with nominal gamma-dose of ca. 1.72 Gyh(-1) and indeed it was observed that the rice hulls samples were found to be stable at least for the removal of Cs-134.
17098438	Responses of antioxidative defense systems to chilling and drought stresses were comparatively studied in four cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.) differing in sensitivity, two of them (Xiangnuo no. 1 and Zimanuo) are tolerant to chilling but sensitive to drought and the other two (Xiangzhongxian no. 2 and IR50) are tolerant to drought but sensitive to chilling. The seedlings of rice were transferred into growth chamber for 5 d at 8 degrees C as chilling treatment, or at 28 degrees C as control, or at 28 degrees C but cultured in 23% PEG-6000 solution as drought stress treatment. Under drought stress the elevated levels of electrolyte leakage, contents of H(2)O(2) and total thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS) in Xiangzhongxian no. 2 and IR50 are lower than those in Xiangnuo no. 1 and Zimanuo. On the contrary, Xiangnuo no. 1 and Zimanuo have much lower level of electrolyte leakage, H(2)O(2) and TBARS than Xiangzhongxian no. 2 and IR50 under chilling stress. Activities of antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and ascorbate-peroxidase (APX)) and contents of antioxidants (ascorbaic acid and reduced glutathione) were measured during the stress treatments. All of them were enhanced greatly until 3 d after drought stress in the two drought-tolerant cultivars, or after chilling stress in the two chilling-tolerant cultivars. They all were decreased at 5 d after stress treatments. On the other hand, activities of antioxidant enzymes and contents of antioxidants were decreased greatly in the drought-sensitive cultivars after drought stress, or in the chilling-sensitive cultivars after chilling stress. The results indicated that tolerance to drought or chilling in rice is well associated with the enhanced capacity of antioxidative system under drought or chilling condition, and that the sensitivity of rice to drought or chilling is linear correlated to the decreased capacity of antioxidative system.
17098721	With the completion of genome sequences of the model plants, such as rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Arabidopsis thaliana, it has come into plant functional genomics era, which becomes a hard base of the appearance and development of plant proteomics. This review focuses on the background of proteomics, concept of proteomics and key techniques of proteomics. The key techniques of proteomics include separation, such as 2-DE (Two-Dimensional Electrophoresis), RP-HPLC (Reverse Phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography) and SELDI (Surface Enhanced Laser Desorption/ Ionization) protein chip, mass spectrometry, such as MALDI-TOF-MS (Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization-Time Of Flight-Mass Spectrometry) and ESI-MS/MS (Electrospray Ionization Mass Spectrometry/Mass Spectrometry), databases related to proteomics, quantitative proteome, TAP (Tandem Affinity Purification) and yeast two-hybrid system. Challenges and prospects of proteomic techniques are discussed.
17098810	Vascular plants develop distinctive root hair distribution patterns in the root epidermis, depending on the taxon. The three patterns, random (Type 1), asymmetrical cell division (Type 2), and positionally cued (Type 3), are controlled by different upstream fate-determining factors that mediate expression of root hair cell-specific genes for hair morphogenesis. Here, we address whether these root hair genes possess a common transcriptional regulatory module (cis-element) determining cell-type specificity despite differences in the final root hair pattern. We identified Arabidopsis thaliana expansinA7 (At EXPA7) orthologous (and paralogous) genes from diverse angiosperm species with different hair distribution patterns. The promoters of these genes contain conserved root hair-specific cis-elements (RHEs) that were functionally verified in the Type-3 Arabidopsis root. The promoter of At EXPA7 (Type-3 pattern) also showed hair cell-specific expression in the Type 2 rice (Oryza sativa) root. Root hair-specific genes other than EXPAs also carry functionally homologous RHEs in their promoters. The RHE core consensus was established by a multiple alignment of functionally characterized RHEs from different species and by high-resolution analysis of At EXPA7 RHE1. Our results suggest that this regulatory module of root hair-specific genes has been conserved across angiosperms despite the divergence of upstream fate-determining machinery.
17098850	A basic problem in silicon (Si) uptake studies in biology is the lack of an appropriate radioactive isotope. Radioactive germanium-68 ((68)Ge) has been used previously as a Si tracer in biological materials, but its suitability for the study of Si transport in higher plants is still untested. In this study, we investigated (68)Ge-traced Si uptake by four crop species differing widely in uptake capacity for Si, including rice (Oryza sativa), barley (Hordeum vulgare), cucumber (Cucumis sativus), and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). Maintenance of a (68)Ge:Si molar ratio that was similar in the plant tissues of all four plant species to that supplied in the nutrient solution over a wide range of Si concentrations demonstrated the absence of discrimination between (68)Ge and Si. Further, using the (68)Ge tracer, a typical Michaelis-Menten uptake kinetics for Si was found in rice, barley, and cucumber. Compared to rice, the relative proportion of root-to-shoot translocated Si was lower in barley and cucumber and especially in tomato (only 30%). Uptake and translocation of Si in rice, barley, and cucumber (Si accumulators) were strongly inhibited by 2,4-dinitrophenol and HgCl(2), but in tomato, as a Si-excluding species, both inhibitors produced the opposite effect. In conclusion, our results suggest the use of the (68)Ge tracer method as an appropriate choice for future studies of Si transport in plants. Our findings also indicate that the restriction of Si from symplast to apoplast in the cortex of Si excluders is a metabolically active process.
17098851	Seventeen loci encode proteins of the preprotein and amino acid transporter family in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Some of these genes have arisen from recent duplications and are not in annotated duplicated regions of the Arabidopsis genome. In comparison to a number of other eukaryotic organisms, this family of proteins has greatly expanded in plants, with 24 loci in rice (Oryza sativa). Most of the Arabidopsis and rice genes are orthologous, indicating expansion of this family before monocot and dicot divergence. In vitro protein uptake assays, in vivo green fluorescent protein tagging, and immunological analyses of selected proteins determined either mitochondrial or plastidic localization for 10 and six proteins, respectively. The protein encoded by At5g24650 is targeted to both mitochondria and chloroplasts and, to our knowledge, is the first membrane protein reported to be targeted to mitochondria and chloroplasts. Three genes encoded translocase of the inner mitochondrial membrane (TIM)17-like proteins, three TIM23-like proteins, and three outer envelope protein16-like proteins in Arabidopsis. The identity of Arabidopsis TIM22-like proteins is most likely a protein encoded by At3g10110/At1g18320, based on phylogenetic analysis, subcellular localization, and complementation of a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant and coexpression analysis. The lack of a preprotein and amino acid transporter domain in some proteins, localization in mitochondria, plastids, or both, variation in gene structure, and the differences in expression profiles indicate that the function of this family has diverged in plants beyond roles in protein translocation.
17098858	Plant cell shape is achieved through a combination of oriented cell division and cell expansion and is defined by the cell wall. One of the genes identified to influence cell expansion in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) root is the COBRA (COB) gene that belongs to a multigene family. Three members of the AtCOB gene family have been shown to play a role in specific types of cell expansion or cell wall biosynthesis. Functional orthologs of one of these genes have been identified in maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa; Schindelman et al., 2001; Li et al., 2003; Brown et al., 2005; Persson et al., 2005; Ching et al., 2006; Jones et al., 2006). We present the maize counterpart of the COB gene family and the COB gene superfamily phylogeny. Most of the genes belong to a family with two main clades as previously identified by analysis of the Arabidopsis family alone. Within these clades, however, clear differences between monocot and eudicot family members exist, and these are analyzed in the context of Type I and Type II cell walls in eudicots and monocots. In addition to changes at the sequence level, gene regulation of this family in a eudicot, Arabidopsis, and a monocot, maize, is also characterized. Gene expression is analyzed in a multivariate approach, using data from a number of sources, including massively parallel signature sequencing libraries, transcriptional reporter fusions, and microarray data. This analysis has revealed that the expression of Arabidopsis and maize COB gene family members is highly developmentally and spatially regulated at the tissue and cell type-specific level, that gene superfamily members show overlapping and unique expression patterns, and that only a subset of gene superfamily members act in response to environmental stimuli. Regulation of expression of the Arabidopsis COB gene family members has highly diversified in comparison to that of the maize COB gene superfamily members. We also identify BRITTLE STALK 2-LIKE 3 as a putative ortholog of AtCOB.
17099080	Phytocystatins are inhibitors of cysteine proteinases from plants putatively involved in defence and as endogenous regulators of protein turnover. Seven genes encoding cystatins (HvCPI-1 to HvCPI-7), identified from EST collections and from an endosperm cDNA library, have been characterized. The intron-exon structure of their corresponding ORFs has been determined and the predicted three-dimensional models for the seven barley cystatins have been established, based on the known crystal structure of oryzacystatin I from rice. Only one out of the seven deduced proteins, HvCPI-7, had sequence variations affecting the three conserved motifs implicated in the enzyme-inhibitor interaction. In three cases, HvCPI-5, HvCPI-6, and HvCPI-7, amino acid differences lead to the prediction of important structural changes in their three-dimensional structures. Northern blot analysis indicated that the seven genes have different expression patterns in barley tissues. The recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli showed distinct inhibitory properties in vitro, with different K(i) values, against the three cysteine proteinases tested: papain, cathepsin B, and cathepsin H. Moreover, these recombinant proteins presented differential fungicidal characteristics inhibiting the growth of phytopathogenic fungi Botrytis cinerea and Fusarium oxysporum in vitro. The resulting implications for the structural and functional diversity of the seven barley cystatins studied are discussed.
17099930	Rice pesticide concentrations in surface water along with hydrological balance and water management conditions were investigated in a paddy watershed of about 100 ha at the Sakura river basin in Tsukuba, Japan, for 3 years from April 2002. Monitoring on different hydrological scales ranging from a paddy plot up to a watershed determined the importance of water management associated with rainfall events and the cyclic irrigation for reducing pesticide discharge into aquatic environments. Surface drainage significantly increased as a response to rainfall events greater than about 1.5 cm day(-1). A total of 16 herbicides were detected in the stream water and their peak concentrations mostly occurred from early to mid-May following the pesticide application period. Two water management factors influencing the pesticide runoff from paddy fields were defined: excess water storage capacity (EWSC) and water holding period (WHP). Uncertainty analyses of pesticide discharge from a paddy plot for dymron (daimuron) and imazosulfuron (IMS) were performed using Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) with prescribed probability of rainfall and water management practice from observations over a period of 3 years. Application of an intermittent irrigation scheme with shallow water depth practice and high drainage gate to maintain the EWSC > 2 cm and increasing WHP from the current Japanese Agricultural Chemicals Regulation law of 3-4 days to at least 10 days were recommended for reducing the pesticide runoff from paddy fields in a monsoon region such as in Japan. The combination of good water management in field plots and small-scale water cycling is the best management practice for controlling pesticide discharge from paddy watersheds.
17101970	Despite the prevalence of transposable elements in the genomes of higher eukaryotes, what is virtually unknown is how they amplify to very high copy numbers without killing their host. Here, we report the discovery of rice strains where a miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (mPing) has amplified from approximately 50 to approximately 1,000 copies in four rice strains. We characterized 280 of the insertions and found that 70% were within 5 kb of coding regions but that insertions into exons and introns were significantly underrepresented. Further analyses of gene expression and transposable-element activity demonstrate that the ability of mPing to attain high copy numbers is because of three factors: (i) the rapid selection against detrimental insertions, (ii) the neutral or minimal effect of the remaining insertions on gene transcription, and (iii) the continued mobility of mPingelements in strains that already have > 1,000 copies. The rapid increase in mPing copy number documented in this study represents a potentially valuable source of population diversity in self-fertilizing plants like rice.
17103003	Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins associated with degradation of structural components of pathogenic filamentous fungi were overexpressed in the two-rowed malting barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivar Conlon. Transgenes were introduced by co-bombardment with two plasmids, one carrying a rice (Oryza sativa L.) chitinase gene (chi11) and another carrying a rice thaumatin-like protein gene (tlp). Each gene was under the control of the maize ubiquitin (Ubi1) promoter. Fifty-eight primary transformants from three independent transformation events were regenerated. T(1) plants with high rice chi11 and tlp protein expression levels were advanced to identify T(2) homozygotes by herbicide spray and subjected to further molecular analyses. T(3) progeny from one event (E2) had stable integration and expression of the rice chi11 and tlp while those from the other events (E1 and E3) showed stable integration only of tlp. The successful production of these lines overexpressing the antifungal chi and tlp proteins provides materials to test the effects of these genes on a variety of fungal diseases that attack barley and to serve as potential additional sources of disease resistance.
17103227	Lophopyrum elongatum is a wild relative of wheat that provides a source of novel genes for improvement of the salt tolerance of bread wheat. Improved Na(+) 'exclusion' is associated with salt tolerance in a wheat-L. elongatum amphiploid, in which a large proportion (ca. 50%) of the improved regulation of leaf Na(+) concentrations is controlled by chromosome 3E. In this study, genes that might control Na(+) accumulation, such as for transporters responsible for Na(+) entry (HKT1) and exit (SOS1) from cells, or compartmentalisation within vacuoles (NHX1, NHX5, AVP1, AVP2) in the model plant, Arabidopsis thaliana, were targeted for comparative analyses in wheat. Putative rice orthologues were identified and characterised as a means to bridge the large evolutionary distance between genomes from the model dicot and the more complex grass species. Wheat orthologues were identified through BLAST searching to identify either FL-cDNAs or ESTs and were subsequently used to design primers to amplify genomic DNA. The probable orthologous status of the wheat genes was confirmed through demonstration of similar intron-exon structure with their counterparts in Arabidopsis and rice. The majority of exons for Arabidopsis, rice and wheat orthologues of NHX1, NHX5 and SOS1 were conserved except for those at the amino and carboxy terminal ends. However, additional exons were identified in the predicted NHX1 and SOS1 genes of rice and wheat, as compared with Arabidopsis, indicating gene rearrangement events during evolution from a common ancestor. Nullisomic-tetrasomic, deletion and addition lines in wheat were used to assign gene sequences to chromosome regions in wheat and L. elongatum. Most sequences were assigned to homoeologous chromosomes, however, in some instances, such as for SOS1, genes were mapped to other unpredicted locations. Differential transcript abundance under salt stress indicated a complex pattern of expression for wheat orthologues that may regulate Na(+) accumulation in wheat lines containing chromosomes from L. elongatum. The identification of wheat orthologues to well characterized Arabidopsis genes, map locations and gene expression profiles increases our knowledge on the complex mechanisms regulating Na(+) transport in wheat and wheat-L. elongatum lines under salt stress.
17103243	Rice was transformed with either long DNA-segments of random genomic DNA from rice, or centromere-specific DNA sequences from either maize or rice. Despite the repetitive nature of the transgenic DNA sequences, the centromere-specific sequences were inserted largely intact and behave as simple Mendelian units. Between 4 and 5% of bombarded callus clusters were transformed when bombarded with just pCAMBIA 1305.2. Frequency of recovery dropped to 2-3% when BACs with random genomic inserts were co-bombarded with pCAMBIA, and fell to less than 1% when BACs with centromeric DNA inserts and pCAMBIA were co-bombarded. A similar effect was noted on regeneration frequency. Differences in transformation ability, regeneration and behavior of plants transgenic for BACs with random genomic DNA inserts, as compared to those with centromeric DNA inserts, suggests functional differences between these two types of DNA.
17109916	Sorptive potential of selected agricultural waste materials i.e. rice (Oryza sativa) bran (RB), bagasse fly ash (BFA) of sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum), Moringa oleifera pods (MOP) and rice husk (RH) for the removal of methyl parathion pesticide (MP) from surface and ground waters has been investigated. Optimization of operating parameters of sorption process, i.e. sorbent dose, agitation time, pH, initial concentration of sorbate, and temperature have been studied. The sorption data fitted to Freundlich, Langmuir and Dubinin-Radushkevich (D-R) sorption isotherms. The maximum capacities of RB, BFA, MOP and RH for MP were calculated to be 3.6+/-0.8, 5.3+/-1.4, 5.2+/-1.5 and 4.7+/-1.0 mmolg(-1) by Freundlich, 0.39+/-0.009, 0.39+/-0.005, 0.36+/-0.004 and 0.35+/-0.008 mmolg(-1) by Langmuir and 0.9+/-0.08, 1.0+/-0.10, 1.0+/-0.10 and 0.9+/-0.07 mmolg(-1) by D-R isotherms respectively, employing 0.1g of each sorbent, at pH 6, 90 min agitation time and at 303 K. Application of first order Lagergren and Morris-Weber equations to the kinetic data yielded correlation coefficients, close to unity. Thermodynamic parameters of sorption process, i.e. DeltaH, DeltaS and DeltaG were computed and their negative values indicated the exothermic and spontaneous nature of sorption process. The pesticide may be stripped by sonication with methanol, making the regeneration and reutilization of sorbents promising. The sorbents investigated exhibited their potential applications in water decontamination, treatment of industrial and agricultural waste waters.
17110102	The aim of this research was to evaluate the kinetics of the removal of nitrogen and organic matter from parboiled rice effluent by the cyanobacteria Aphanothece microscopica Ngeli. From the results obtained, it was verified that maximum efficiency for the removal of organic matter expressed as COD and total nitrogen (N-TKN) occurred after 15 h of cultivation, being 83.44% and 72.74, respectively. The scale-up process indicated that the volume of the estimated reactor would be 100.2m(3), containing parboiled rice effluent and biomass.
17110395	Microstructural changes such as insertions and deletions (=indels) are a major driving force in the evolution of non-coding DNA sequences. To better understand the mechanisms by which indel mutations arise, as well as the molecular evolution of non-coding regions, the number and pattern of indels and nucleotide substitutions were compared in the whole chloroplast genomes. Comparisons were made for a total of over 38 kb non-coding DNA sequences from 126 intergenic regions in two data sets representing species with different divergence times: sugarcane and maize and Oryza sativa var. indica and japonica. The main findings of this study are: (i) Approximately half of all indels are single nucleotide indels. This observation agrees with previous studies in various organisms. (ii) The distribution and number of indels was different between two data sets, and different patterns were observed for tandem repeat and non-repeat indels. (iii) Distribution pattern of tandem repeat indels showed statistically significant bias towards A/T-rich. (iv) The rate of indel mutation was estimated to be approximately 0.8 +/- 0.04 x 10(-9) per site per year, which was similar to previous estimates in other organisms. (v) The frequencies of nucleotide substitutions and indels were significantly lower in inverted repeat (IR).
17110988	The invertase enzyme family is responsible for carbohydrate metabolism in rice, perennial ryegrass, and wheat. Fructan molecules accumulate in cell vacuoles of perennial ryegrass and wheat and are associated with abiotic stress tolerance. High levels of amino acid similarity between the fructosyltransferases responsible for fructan accumulation indicates that they may have evolved from invertase-like ancestral genes. In this study, we have applied comparative genomics to determine the mechanisms that lead to the evolution of fructosytransferase and invertase genes in rice, perennial ryegrass, and wheat. Duplications and rearrangements have been inferred to generate variant forms of the rice invertases since divergence from a common grass progenitor. The occurrence of multiple copies of fructosyltransferase genes indicated that duplication events continued during evolution of the wheat and perennial ryegrass lineages. Further gene rearrangements were evident in perennial ryegrass genes, albeit at a reduced level compared with the rice invertases. Gene orthologs were largely static after duplication during evolution of the wheat lineage. This study details evolutionary events that contribute to fructosyltransferase and invertase gene variation in grasses.
17111096	The involvement of phospholipase C/diacylglycerol kinase (PLC/DGK)-mediated signalling in oxidative burst and hypersensitive cell death was studied in rice suspension-cultured cells treated with benzothiadiazole (BTH) and infected by Xanthomonas oryza pv. oryza (Xoo), the causal agent of rice leaf blight disease. Treatment of rice suspension cells with BTH resulted in a significant oxidative burst, as indicated by accumulation of superoxide anion and H(2)O(2), and hypersensitive cell death, as determined by Evans blue staining. A peak in oxidative burst was detected 3-4 h after BTH treatment and hypersensitive cell death was observed 8 h after treatment. In addition, significant oxidative burst and hypersensitive cell death were detected in BTH-treated suspension cells, but not in untreated control cells, after Xoo infection. Scavengers and antioxidants of active oxygen species, e.g., superoxide dismutase, catalase, N-acetylcysteine, and flavone, reduced significantly the BTH-induced oxidative burst and hypersensitive cell death, indicating that oxidative burst is required for BTH-induced hypersensitive cell death. Expression of the PLC/DGK pathway genes, a diacylglycerol kinase gene, OsDAGK1, and a phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C gene, OsPI-PLC1, and a defence-related EREBP transcriptional factor gene, OsBIERF3, was activated in rice cells after BTH treatment and in the BTH-treated cells after Xoo infection. Treatment of rice cells with phosphatidic acid, a phospholipid signalling molecule, resulted in the production of oxidative burst and hypersensitive cell death. However, neomycin, a PLC inhibitor, inhibited partially but not completely the production of oxidative burst, hypersensitive cell death, and expression of OsBIERF3 and OsDAGK1 induced by BTH in rice cells. These results suggest that PLC/DGK-mediated signalling plays an important role in BTH-induced oxidative burst, hypersensitive response, and activation of defence response in rice.
17111464	Soil test crop response (STCR) correlation studies were carried out in Vindhyan alluvial plain during 2001 to 2004 taking IR-36 as test crop to quantify rice production in the context of the variability of soil properties and use of balanced fertilizers based on targeted yield concept. The soils were developed on gently sloping alluvial plain with different physiographic settings and notable variation in drainage condition. Soil properties show moderate variation in texture (loamy to clay), organic carbon content (4.4 to 9.8 g/kg), cation exchange capacity (10.2 to 22.4 cmol (p+)/kg) and pH (5.3 to 6.4). Soil fertility status for N is low to medium (224 to 348 kg/ha), P is medium to high (87 to 320 kg/ha) and K ranges from medium to high (158 to 678 kg/ha). Database regarding nutrient requirement in kg/t of grain produce (NR), the percent contribution from the soil available nutrients [CS (%)] and the percent contribution from the applied fertilizer nutrients [CF (%)] were computed for calibrating and formulating fertilizer recommendations. Validity of the yield target for 7 and 8 t/ha was tested in farmers' fields and yields targets varied at less than 10%. The percent achievement of targets aimed at different level was more than 90%, indicating soil test based fertilizer recommendation approach was economically viable within the agro-ecological zone with relatively uniform cropping practices and socio-economic conditions.
17111628	Cd translocation through soil-food crop-diet is considered as one of most important pathway for human Cd exposure. Rice is considered as a particular crop with high Cd uptake and accumulation in grains among the main food crops. In this study, a pot experiment was conducted to elucidate mutual interaction of soil and cultivars on uptake and grain accumulation of Cd by hybrid rice with or without Cd spiking at 2.5 mg x kg(-1) under continuous submerging condition. Two hybrid rice cultivars (Shanyou 63, a common hybrid rice and II Youming 86, a super-rice) and two paddy soils (a Wushantu, Gleyic Stagnic Anthrosols and a Hongshanitian, Ultic Stagnic Anthrosols) were used. The results show significant differences in Cd uptake and grain partitioning between soils, cultivars and the soil-cultivar interactions. The cultivars effect on uptake of indigenous soil Cd seems stronger than the soil effect while soil effect turns significant over that of cultivars on spiked Cd. However, intense Cd accumulation in grains is found under the positive interaction of soil with high Cd availability and cultivar with high Cd affinity (super rice on acidic paddy soil). This study demonstrates a phenomenon of intense Cd uptake and grain accumulation by super rice and, thus, imposing a very high Cd exposure risk (as several times as the acceptable daily intake, ADI) to subsistence-diet farmers. The low Cd cultivar Shanyou 63 tends to hamper the up-taken Cd in root while the super rice II Youming 86 promotes higher partitioning to grain. Furthermore, the difference in total biomass between the two cultivars is small compared to that in total Cd uptake under Cd spiking. It is suggested that the Cd uptake behavior should be taken into account in super rice breeding and practical measures should be taken while spread of super rice cultivars in rice areas with acidic soils and under Cd pollution in order to control the human Cd exposure by diet.
17111979	The promotion of pyrethroid impregnated bednets among the populations is a major activity of the National Malaria Vector Control Programs in African tropical countries. However pyrethroid resistance in Anopheles gambiae, a major malaria vector, has been observed in several parts of Cte-d'Ivoire since 1993. As insecticides used in agriculture against pests are frequently considered as important factors responsible for resistance in malaria vectors, we have evaluated insecticide resistance of An. gambiae populations taking into account the main crops cultivated in Cte-d'Ivoire. Five areas were selected according to the use of insecticide either in agriculture or for domestic purposes: a urban area where vegetables and rice are main crops, a rural rice growing area, a rural area of coffee/cocoa production, a rural area of fruit farming and a rural area without any use of agricultural insecticide. Susceptibility tests were carried out using WHO diagnostic test kits. About 6500 females of An. gambiae were exposed to insecticide impregnated papers (permethrin 1%, deltamethrin 0.05%, DDT 4%) for one hour. Results confirmed that both mortality rates and knockdown time analysis were important to study the resistance data. By using mortality rates, populations of An. gambiae were found to be resistant to pyrethroids and DDT in four of the five areas. Resistance was the highest in urban area, lower in fruit and coffee/cocoa areas and at low level in rice growing area. An. gambiae from area without agricultural treatment was found susceptible to pyrethroids but slightly resistant to DDT A significant increase of knockdown time was observed in all areas with the 3 insecticides. These results agreed with previous studies showing that kdr mutation was the main resistance mechanism to pyrethroids in An. gambiae populations in Cte-d'Ivoire. They also agreed with knockdown time which is an early indicator of resistance development for the population in area without agricultural treatment. In this population the frequency of homozygous resistant individuals was probably too low to have a significant decrease of mortality rates to pyrethroids.
17112320	Genomic regions that are unusually divergent between closely related species or racial groups can be particularly informative about the process of speciation or the operation of natural selection. The two sequenced genomes of cultivated Asian rice, Oryza sativa, reveal that at least 6% of the genomes are unusually divergent. Sequencing of ten unlinked loci from the highly divergent regions consistently identified two highly divergent haplotypes with each locus in nearly complete linkage disequilibrium among 25 O. sativa cultivars and 35 lines from six wild species. The existence of two highly divergent haplotypes in high divergence regions in species from all geographical areas (Africa, Asia, and Oceania) was in contrast to the low polymorphism and low linkage disequilibrium that were observed in other parts of the genome, represented by ten reference loci. While several natural processes are likely to contribute to this pattern of genomic variation, domestication may have greatly exaggerated the trend. In this hypothesis, divergent haplotypes that were adapted to different geographical and ecological environments migrated along with humans during the development of domesticated varieties. If true, these high divergence regions of the genome would be enriched for loci that contribute to the enormous range of phenotypic variation observed among domesticated breeds.
17112491	The maximum water solubilities of eight native starches from potato, shoti, tapioca, maize, waxy maize, amylomaize-7, wheat, and rice and their acid-methanol and acid-ethanol modified analogues have been determined. Maximum solubilities of 18.7 and 17.4 mg/mL were obtained for waxy maize and tapioca and 12.4 mg/mL for potato and maize starches by autoclaving 220 mg/10 mL at 121 degrees C; 8.7 mg/mL was obtained for shoti starch by stirring in 85:15 (v/v) Me(2)SO-H(2)O at 20 degrees C; and 7.0 and 5.2mg/mL for rice and amylomaize-7 starches by stirring in 1M NaOH at 20 degrees C. The acid-alcohol treated starches were 4-9 times more soluble than their native starches. The compositions of the solubilized starches had, in general, much higher ratios of amylose to amylopectin than the ratios in their native granules. A major exception to this was the acid-methanol treated potato, shoti, and rice starches that had much lower ratios of amylose to amylopectin than the ratios in their granules.
17112971	The quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for low-temperature vigor of germination (LVG) with a germination period of 7 d, 11 d, 14 d, and 17 d at 14 degrees C was identified using F(2:3) population, which included 200 individuals and lines derived from a cross of indica and japonica "Milyang 23/Jileng 1" with microsatellite markers. The correlation coefficient between LVG and other cold tolerance traits was analyzed. LVG and the cold response index for vigor of germination (CIVG) detected when the germination period was 7 d showed a continuous distribution, which was partial to lower LVG and lower CIVG in F(3) lines. LVG and CIVG detected when the germination periods were 11 d, 14 d, and 17 d showed a continuous distribution near normal, which were quantitative traits controlled by multiple genes. LVG detected when the germination period was 14 d was more correlated with other cold tolerance traits than LVG detected when the germination periods were 7 d, 11 d, and 17 d, which was significantly associated with cold tolerance during the bud bursting period, the seedling stage, the booting stage, and the growing ability under cold conditions. qLVG2 located in RM29-RM262 on chromosome 2, qLVG7-2 and qCIVG7-2 located in RM336-RM118 on chromosome 7 were detected when the germination periods were 11 d, 14 d, and 17 d. qCIVG2 located in RM29-RM262 on chromosome 2 was detected when the germination periods were 11 d and 14 d. The variation is due to the observed phenotypic variation by the above QTLs, which was increased following the germination. The variation of qLVG2 related to LVG was increased from 6.9% to 14.2%. The variation of qLVG7-2 associated with LVG was increased from 9.9% to 11.2%. The variation of qCIVG2 correlated with CIVG was increased from 6.3% to 9.0%. The variation of qCIVG7-2 associated with CIVG was increased from 8.3% to 12.9%. These QTL alleles were obtained from the tolerant parent Jileng 1, and the gene action was most likely to be partially dominant.
17112972	Milled rice (Oryza sativa L.) is composed of approximately 90% starch. The properties of starch have considerable effects on cooked rice palatability and consumer acceptability. Starch pasting viscosity parameters serve as important indices in the estimation of eating, cooking, and processing qualities of rice. In the present study, four cytoplasmic male-sterile (CMS) lines and eight restorer (R) lines have been used in an incomplete diallel cross to analyze seed effects, cytoplasmic effects, maternal gene effects, and their genotype x environment (GE) effects on the following starch pasting viscosity parameters: breakdown (BD), consistency (CS), and setback (SB). The results demonstrated that the total main genetic variances (V(G)) accounted for over 64% of the total genetic variance (V(G) +V(GE)) for the three traits, indicating that these traits were mainly controlled by the main genetic effects in addition to the GE interaction effects. The estimated total narrow-sense heritability were 67.8%, 79.5%, and 79.5% for BD, CS, and SB, respectively. The general heritability (h(2)(G)) accounted for over 75% of the total heritability (h(2)(G) +h(2)(GE)), indicating that early selection would be effective for those traits and the selection efficiencies were relatively stable in different environments.
17113126	Extracts of neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss) are used in the developing world for many purposes including management of agricultural insect pests. The effects of different neem extracts (aqueous (NSKEaq), ethanol (NSKEeth) and hexane (NSKEhex)) on mortality, survival and weight of the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens (Stl) (BPH) (Homoptera: Delphacidae) third and fourth nymphal instars were investigated. When fed rice plants treated with neem derivatives in bioassays, the survival of BPH nymphs is affected. Comparisons were made with the pure neem limonoid, azadirachtin (AZA) to ascertain its role as a compound responsible for these effects. AZA was most potent in all experiments and produced almost 100% nymphal mortality at 0.5 ppm and higher concentrations. When higher concentrations were applied, the effects appeared shortly after treatment and mortality was higher. Many insects died after remaining inactive for several days or during prolonged moulting. At lower concentrations, if moulting was achieved, disturbed growth and abnormalities were then likely to occur in the moulting process. Nymphs that were chronically exposed to neem extract showed a reduction in weight (45-60%). The results clearly indicate the simple NSKE (aqueous, ethanolic or both), containing low concentrations of AZA, can be used effectively to inhibit the growth and survival of BPH.
17113148	Placentation in tenrecs of the subfamily Oryzorictinae, family Tenrecidae, has not been described previously. The structure of the placenta of this group and especially of the genus Microgale was investigated to determine its similarity or dissimilarity to previously described placentas of the tenrec subfamilies Potamogalinae and Tenrecinae. Fifteen specimens of the genus Microgale ranging from an early yolk sac stage to near term were available for study. Placentation in Microgale was found to be different from other tenrecids in that there is an early simple lateral rather than central haemophagous region. In addition, a more villous portion of the placental disk forms before the formation of a more compact labyrinth. Although the definitive placenta is cellular haemomonochorial, it lacks the spongy zone found in the Tenrecinae. Neither does it resemble the endotheliochorial condition found in the Potamogalinae. Of the two genera of the subfamily Oryzorictinae represented by single specimens, the placenta of Limnogale resembled that of the Microgale but Oryzorictes had several differences including a lobulated placental disk. It is concluded that there is more variation in placentation both within the subfamily Oryzorictinae and within the family Tenrecidae than would ordinarily be expected.
17113688	Liu-Chiu islet, a relatively isolated ecosystem that is free of rice cultivation, has long considered free of Japanese encephalitis (JE). However, a new strain (T1P1) of JE virus was isolated from the mosquito, Armigeres subalbatus, and a rather broad distribution of neutralizing antibody has been reported on the islet, suggesting that the circulating virus could be an attenuated strain. In an assessment on 219 blood samples obtained from residents of Liu-Chiu islet, the positive rate of JEV-specific IgM antibodies decreased with age while that of neutralizing antibodies increased with age. Both antibodies were mainly responsive to the T1P1 strain since higher positive rates and titers of specific neutralizing antibodies are shown in this investigation. Importantly, the T1P1 strain is herein characterized as being broader in neutralizing virus strains, stable in genetic traits, and productive in Vero cells. Taken together, the JE virus strain endemically circulating on Liu-Chiu islet may have served as a natural form of a live-attenuated vaccine. As a result, it possibly can be utilized as a new and effective vaccine candidate in the future.
17114350	Sulfur is an essential macronutrient required for plant growth. To identify key transcription factors regulating the sulfur assimilatory pathway, we screened Arabidopsis thaliana mutants using a fluorescent reporter gene construct consisting of the sulfur limitation-responsive promoter of the SULTR1;2 sulfate transporter and green fluorescent protein as a background indicator for monitoring plant sulfur responses. The isolated mutant, sulfur limitation1 (slim1), was unable to induce SULTR1;2 transcripts under low-sulfur (-S) conditions. Mutations causing the sulfur limitation responseless phenotypes of slim1 were identified in an EIL family transcription factor, ETHYLENE-INSENSITIVE3-LIKE3 (EIL3), whose functional identity with SLIM1 was confirmed by genetic complementation. Sulfate uptake and plant growth on -S were significantly reduced by slim1 mutations but recovered by overexpression of SLIM1. SLIM1 functioned as a central transcriptional regulator, which controlled both the activation of sulfate acquisition and degradation of glucosinolates under -S conditions. Metabolite analysis indicated stable accumulation of glucosinolates in slim1 mutants, even under -S conditions, particularly in the molecular species with methylsulfinylalkyl side chains beneficial to human health. Overexpression of SLIM1 and its rice (Oryza sativa) homologs, but no other EIL genes of Arabidopsis, restored the sulfur limitation responseless phenotypes of slim1 mutants, suggesting uniqueness of the SLIM1/EIL3 subgroup members as sulfur response regulators.
17115220	Rice blast, caused by the fungus Magnaporthe grisea, is a globally important disease of rice that causes annual yield losses. The segregation of genes controlling the virulence of M. grisea on rice was studied to establish the genetic basis of cultivar specificity in the interaction of rice and M. grisea. The segregation of avirulence and virulence was studied in 87 M. grisea F(1) progeny isolates from a cross of two isolates, Guy11 and JS153, using resistance-gene-differential rice cultivars. The segregation ratio indicated that avirulence and virulence in the rice cultivars Aichi-asahi and K59, respectively, are controlled by single major genes. Genetic analyses of backcrosses and full-sib crosses in these populations were also performed. The chi(2)test of goodness-of-fitness for a 1:1 ratio indicated that one dominant gene controls avirulence in Aichi-asahi and K59 in this population. Based on the resistance reactions of rice differential lines harboring known resistance genes to the parental isolates, two genetically independent avirulence genes, AVR-Pit and AVR-Pia, were identified. Genetic linkage analysis showed that the SSR marker m355-356 is closely linked to AVR-Pit, on the telomere of chromosome 1 at a distance of approximately 2.3 cM. The RAPD marker S487, which was converted to a sequence-characterized amplified region (SCAR) marker, was found to be closely linked to AVR-Pia, on the chromosome 7 telomere at a distance of 3.5 cM. These molecular markers will facilitate the positional cloning of the two AVR genes, and can be applied to molecular-marker-assisted studies of M. grisea populations.
17115300	Sugar is an important resource for energy generation and developmental regulation in plants, and sucrose starvation causes enormous changes in cellular morphology, enzyme activities and gene expression. Genome-wide gene expression profiling provides a comprehensive knowledge of gene expression under nutrient depletion and senescence; however, that of a monocot model plant, rice, under sucrose depletion is still under investigation. Here, the time-course monitoring of gene expression profiles in sucrose-starved rice (Oryza sativa cv Tainung67) suspension cells was investigated by 21495 probes contained in Agilent rice chip. In sucrose-starved cells, the induced vacuolar biogenesis coincided with significantly upregulated transcripts of H+-pyrophosphatase, delta-TIP, one putative alpha-TIP, several vacuolar proteases and proteinase inhibitors, and one OsATG3. To survey the overall metabolic adaptations under sucrose depletion, the genes with significantly altered expression level were incorporated into multiple metabolic pathways. Most genes encoding enzymes involved in biosynthesis and degradation pathways of various macromolecules were comprehensively down-and upregulated, respectively, with sucrose starvation. Transcriptional regulation of gene expression is important for physiological adaptations to environmental stress, and many transcription factors, including bZIPs, NACs, and WRKY, showed significant increase in transcriptional level under sucrose starvation. Concurrently, statistical analysis revealed that their corresponding consensus cis-elements, such as ABA-responsive element, CACG, ACI, ACII and CTTATCC, were frequently found in the promoter regions of many sucrose starvation-upregulated genes. Particle bombardment-mediated and luciferase activity-based transient promoter assays revealed the CTTATCC, derived form TATCCA, and the AC motifs to be promising sucrose-starvation responsive activators in rice suspension cells.
17115750	The selectivity of the alpha C-Cl and beta C-Br bond fissions upon n-->pi(*) excitation of bromoacetyl chloride has been investigated with combined nonadiabatic Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory and ab initio molecular dynamics calculations, which are based on the potential energy profiles calculated with the complete active space self-consistent field and multireference configuration interaction methods. The Zhu-Nakamura [J. Chem. Phys. 101, 10630 (1994); 102, 7448 (1995)] theory is chosen to calculate the nonadiabatic hopping probability. It is found that nonadiabatic effect plays an important role in determining selective dissociations of the C-Cl and C-Br bonds. The calculated rate constants are close to those from experimentally inferred values, but the branching ratio of the alpha C-Cl and beta C-Br bond fissions is different from the experimental findings. The direct molecular dynamics calculations predict that fission of the C-Cl bond occurs on a time scale of picoseconds and cleavage of the beta C-Br bond proceeds with less probability within the same period. This reveals that the initial relaxation dynamics is probably another important factor that influences the selectivity of the C-Cl and C-Br bond fissions in photodissociation of BrCH(2)COCl at 248 nm.
17115751	We theoretically investigated the stability of highly charged C(60) (z+) cations produced from C(60) with an ultrashort intense laser pulse of lambda approximately 1800 nm. We first calculated the equilibrium structures and vibrational frequencies of C(60) (z+) as well as C(60). We then calculated key energies relevant to dissociation of C(60) (z+), such as the excess vibrational energy acquired upon sudden tunnel ionization from C(60). By comparing the magnitudes of the calculated energies, we found that C(60) (z+) cations up to z approximately 12 can be produced as a stable or quasistable (microsecond-order lifetime) intact parent cation, in agreement with the recent experimental report by V. R. Bhardwaj et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 043001 (2004)] that almost only intact parent C(60) (z+) cations up to z=12 are detected by a mass spectrometer. The results of Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculation suggest that the lifetime of C(60) (z+) drastically decreases by ten orders of magnitude as z increases from z=11 to z=13. Using the time-dependent adiabatic state approach, we also investigated the vibrational excitation of C(60) and C(60) (z+) by an intense near-infrared pulse. The results indicate that large-amplitude vibration with energy of >10 eV is induced in the delocalized h(g)(1)-like mode of C(60) (z+).
17116242	DNA topoisomerase 6 (TOP6) belongs to a novel family of type II DNA topoisomerases present, other than in archaebacteria, only in plants. Here we report the isolation of full-length cDNAs encoding putative TOP6 subunits A and B from rice (Oryza sativa ssp. indica), preserving all the structural domains conserved among archaebacterial TOP6 homologs and eukaryotic meiotic recombination factor SPO11. OsTOP6A1 was predominantly expressed in prepollinated flowers. The transcript abundance of OsTOP6A2, OsTOP6A3 and OsTOP6B was also higher in prepollinated flowers and callus. The expression of OsTOP6A2, OsTOP6A3 and OsTOP6B was differentially regulated by the plant hormones, auxin, cytokinin, and abscisic acid. Yeast two-hybrid analysis revealed that the full-length OsTOP6B protein interacts with both OsTOP6A2 and OsTOP6A3, but not with OsTOP6A1. The nuclear localization of OsTOP6A3 and OsTOP6B was established by the transient expression of their beta-glucuronidase fusion proteins in onion epidermal cells. Overexpression of OsTOP6A3 and OsTOP6B in transgenic Arabidopsis plants conferred reduced sensitivity to the stress hormone, abscisic acid, and tolerance to high salinity and dehydration. Moreover, the stress tolerance coincided with enhanced induction of many stress-responsive genes in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. In addition, microarray analysis revealed that a large number of genes are expressed differentially in transgenic plants. Taken together, our results demonstrate that TOP6 genes play a crucial role in stress adaptation of plants by altering gene expression.
17116582	The digestion of proteins in steamed rice grains by sake koji enzymes under simulated sake mash conditions was analyzed by comparing the hydrolysis of steamed rice grains and heat-treated protein bodies (PBs) isolated from seven rice samples including four endosperm-storage protein mutants. The disappearance of peptides in the digest of isolated PBs was faster than that of steamed rice grains; however, more insoluble proteins formed in the case of isolated PBs. Not all of the hydrolyzed PB proteins were immediately solubilized in the digestion tests. High-molecular-weight peptides were more abundant in the solubilized digest of steamed rice grains than in that of isolated PBs. Variance in Ile, Ser, Glu, and Gly levels in the digest of steamed rice grains was relatively high among the seven samples, but was not found to be high in digests of isolated PBs. These results indicate that factors that may be derived from the steamed rice grains profoundly affect the digestion of proteins in steamed rice grains by sake koji enzymes.
17116705	Chili and turmeric are common spices in indigenous diets in tropical regions. Being rich in phenolic compounds, they would be expected to bind iron (Fe)(3) in the intestine and inhibit Fe absorption in humans. Three experiments were conducted in healthy young women (n = 10/study) to assess the effect of chili and turmeric on Fe absorption from a rice-based meal containing vegetables and iron fortified fish sauce in vivo. Iron absorption was determined by erythrocyte incorporation of stable isotope labels ((57)Fe/(58)Fe) using a randomized crossover design. Addition of freeze-dried chili (4.2 g dry powder, 25 mg polyphenols as gallic acid equivalents) reduced Fe absorption from the meal by 38% (6.0% with chili vs. 9.7% without chili, P = 0.0017). Turmeric (0.5 g dry powder, 50 mg polyphenols as gallic acid equivalents) did not inhibit iron absorption (P = 0.91). A possible effect of chili on gastric acid secretion was indirectly assessed by comparing Fe absorption from acid soluble [(57)Fe]-ferric pyrophosphate relative to water soluble [(58)Fe]-ferrous sulfate from the same meal in the presence and absence of chili. Chili did not enhance gastric acid secretion. Relative Fe bioavailability of ferric pyrophosphate was 5.4% in presence of chili and 6.4% in absence of chili (P = 0.47). Despite the much higher amount of phenolics in the turmeric meal, it did not affect iron absorption. We conclude that both phenol quality and quantity determine the inhibitory effect of phenolic compounds on iron absorption.
17116708	Strategies that decrease postprandial glucose excursions, including digestive enzyme inhibition, and low glycemic index diets result in lower diabetes incidence and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk, possibly through lower postprandial oxidative damage to lipids and proteins. We therefore assessed the effect of decreasing postprandial glucose excursions on measures of oxidative damage. Fifteen healthy subjects ate 2 bread control meals and 3 test meals: almonds and bread; parboiled rice; and instant mashed potatoes, balanced in carbohydrate, fat, and protein, using butter and cheese. We obtained blood samples at baseline and for 4 h postprandially. Glycemic indices for the rice (38 +/- 6) and almond meals (55 +/- 7) were less than for the potato meal (94 +/- 11) (P < 0.003), as were the postprandial areas under the insulin concentration time curve (P < 0.001). No postmeal treatment differences were seen in total antioxidant capacity. However, the serum protein thiol concentration increased following the almond meal (15 +/- 14 mmol/L), indicating less oxidative protein damage, and decreased after the control bread, rice, and potato meals (-10 +/- 8 mmol/L), when data from these 3 meals were pooled (P = 0.021). The change in protein thiols was also negatively related to the postprandial incremental peak glucose (r = -0.29, n = 60 observations, P = 0.026) and peak insulin responses (r = -0.26, n = 60 observations, P = 0.046). Therefore, lowering postprandial glucose excursions may decrease the risk of oxidative damage to proteins. Almonds are likely to lower this risk by decreasing the glycemic excursion and by providing antioxidants. These actions may relate to mechanisms by which nuts are associated with a decreased risk of CHD.
17116862	Integration host factor (IHF) is a prokaryotic protein required for the integration of lambda phage DNA into its host genome. An x-ray crystal structure of the complex shows that IHF binds to the minor groove of DNA and bends the double helix by 160 degrees [Rice PA, Yang S, Mizuuchi K, Nash HA (1996) Cell 87:1295-1306]. We sought to dissect the complex formation process into its component binding and bending reaction steps, using stopped-flow fluorimetry to observe changes in resonance energy transfer between DNA-bound dyes, which in turn reflect distance changes upon bending. Different DNA substrates that are likely to increase or decrease the DNA bending rate were studied, including one with a nick in a critical kink position, and a substrate with longer DNA ends to increase hydrodynamic friction during bending. Kinetic experiments were carried out under pseudofirst-order conditions, in which the protein concentration is in substantial excess over DNA. At lower concentrations, the reaction rate rises linearly with protein concentration, implying rate limitation by the bimolecular reaction step. At high concentrations the rate reaches a plateau value, which strongly depends on temperature and the nature of the DNA substrate. We ascribe this reaction limit to the DNA bending rate and propose that complex formation is sequential at high concentration: IHF binds rapidly to DNA, followed by slower DNA bending. Our observations on the bending step kinetics are in agreement with results using the temperature-jump kinetic method.
17117558	The rice P0491E01 gene shares high similarity in amino acid sequence with Arabidopsis gene AtDAD1 (DEFECTIVE IN ANTHER DEHISCENCE1) which plays a key role in the biosynthesis of jasmonic acid. In this paper, we investigated the function of this gene in the anther development of rice using RNA interference strategy. An exon fragment of 263bp was cloned from genomic DNA of P0491E01 to construct RNAi vector pP0491RNAi. Then, pP0491RNAi was transformed into O. sativa japonica by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and ten transgenic plants were obtained. GUS-staining and PCR analysis confirmed that T-DNA was integrated into rice genome. Three of the transgenic plants were male sterile, and the other transgenic plants showed reduced fertility. Cytological observation indicated that anther development in the early stage of male sterile transgenic plants was normal, however, the microspores could not develop into mature pollen grains. Further investigations of the expression of P0491E01 gene in these transgenic lines by RT-PCR revealed that its transcription was significantly reduced. The results suggest that P0491E01 may play an important role during the late stage of anther development.
17117559	This paper reported an improvement in 2-D gel electrophoresis of the proteome in Honglian cytoplasmic male sterile rice. An IPGphor unit with immobile pH gradient strips was used as the first dimension and SDS-PAGE as the second. The total anther proteins were extracted using TCA/acetone and then were washed 5-6 times with acetone till the proteins were white and clean, and then tributylphosphine and DTT were added into the rehydration buffer to improve the solubility of the proteins. The 2-D gel was stained by both methods of coomassie blue G-250 and silver. Extraction of proteins, pH of the strips and rehydration of the strips were optimized and compared. Higher repeatability and better separating protein pattern could be gained by this technique.
17118563	Gathering information on the thermal characteristics of the causative agent in scald injuries provides clues as to the likely depth of injury. We theorize that viscosity and thermal capacity may have important roles to play when we view scalds as contact burns due to a liquid. From a 4-year review of our scald patients, we found that scalds due to thick food/drinks such as congee (a porridge made from rice) were associated with a higher rate of surgery. We determined the rate of cooling of seven common food/drinks and found little difference between water, tea, coffee and noodles, other than the starting temperatures. However, the rate of cooling of congee was significantly slower indicating a greater thermal capacity. A "drip" model found that a skin substitute exposed to congee cooled significantly more slowly compared to other food/drinks, suggesting that its greater viscosity plays a role. This supports the theory that the viscosity of food/drink is important.
17120105	Guizhou province, which located in southwestern of China, is an important mercury (Hg) production center. This study was to investigate the environmental levels and ecological effects of mercury in two typical Hg polluted areas in Guizhou province. In addition, to improve the understanding of the neurotoxic effects of Hg, a rats based laboratory study was also carried out in this study. Samples of water, soil, plants, crops and animals collected from Wanshan mercury mine area, Guzhou province, were analyzed by mercury analyzer. The effects of Hg contaminated rice on the expression of c-jun mRNA in rat's brain and the expression of c-JUN protein in cortex, hippocampus were observed using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemical methods. The results showed that the mercury contents in most environmental samples of aquatics, soil, atmosphere and the biomass of corn, plant and animals, were higher than the national standard and the corresponding data from unpolluted area. It was found mercury pollutions were significant in soil and air. In the laboratory study, the expression of c-jun mRNA and its protein was significantly induced by Hg polluted rice collected from local area. Selenium could reduce the Hg accumulation in the body and had antagonist effect on Hg in terms of the expression of c-jun mRNA and c-JUN protein. The environmental data and Hg levels in different creatures collected in this study will facilitate the environmental and ecological risk assessment of Hg in the polluted areas. It was urged to be alert of mental health problem in human beings when any kind of Hg-polluted food was taken. More efforts should be performed to protect the local ecosystem and human health in the mercury polluted area of Wanshan, Guizhou province of China.
17120135	Using transfer DNA (T-DNA) with functions of gene trap and gene knockout and activation tagging, a mutant population containing 55,000 lines was generated. Approximately 81% of this population carries 1-2 T-DNA copies per line, and the retrotransposon Tos17 was mostly inactive in this population during tissue culture. A total of 11,992 flanking sequence tags (FSTs) have been obtained and assigned to the rice genome. T-DNA was preferentially (approximately 80%) integrated into genic regions. A total of 19,000 FSTs pooled from this and another T-DNA tagged population were analyzed and compared with 18,000 FSTs from a Tos17 tagged population. There was difference in preference for integrations into genic, coding, and flanking regions, as well as repetitive sequences and centromeric regions, between T-DNA and Tos17; however, T-DNA integration was more evenly distributed in the rice genome than Tos17. Our T-DNA contains an enhancer octamer next to the left border, expression of genes within genetics distances of 12.5 kb was enhanced. For example, the normal height of a severe dwarf mutant, with its gibberellin 2-oxidase (GA2ox) gene being activated by T-DNA, was restored upon GA treatment, indicating GA2ox was one of the key enzymes regulating the endogenous level of GA. Our T-DNA also contains a promoterless GUS gene next to the right border. GUS activity screening facilitated identification of genes responsive to various stresses and those regulated temporally and spatially in large scale with high frequency. Our mutant population offers a highly valuable resource for high throughput rice functional analyses using both forward and reverse genetic approaches.
17120934	Our ex vivo study revealed that BRE had significantly stronger ability to inhibit LDL oxidation than white rice extract (WRE). The purpose of this study was to investigate whether black rice extract (BRE) supplementation might ameliorate oxidative stress and enhance antioxidant enzyme activities in HepG2 cells and in C57BL/6 mice. In the cellular study, superoxide anions (O2*-) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the BRE group were significantly suppressed. The BRE group also showed significant increases in superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities by 161.6% and 73.4%, respectively. The major components responsible for the free-radical-scavenging and antioxidative properties might be cyanidin-3-O-glucoside chloride and peonidin-3-O-glucuside chloride. In the animal study, male C57BL/6 mice were divided into three groups (control, BRE, and WRE). Plasma HDL-cholesterol was significantly higher, and thiobarbituric, acid-reactive substances were significantly lower in the BRE group, whereas plasma levels of total cholesterol and triglyceride were not affected by BRE supplementation. Increased hepatic SOD and CAT activities were observed in BRE-treated mice as compared to the control mice. However, no changes were detected for the protein expression of antioxidant enzymes by Western blot analysis. Our data suggest that antioxidative effects exerted by BRE are mediated through decreases in free-radical generation as well as increases in SOD and CAT activities both in vitro and in vivo.
17122065	Data produced from the MudPIT analysis of yeast (S. cerevisiae) and rice (O. sativa) were used to develop a technique to validate single-peptide protein identifications using complementary database search algorithms. This results in a considerable reduction of overall false-positive rates for protein identifications; the overall false discovery rates in yeast are reduced from near 25% to less than 1%, and the false discovery rate of yeast single-peptide protein identifications becomes negligible. This technique can be employed by laboratories utilizing a SEQUEST-based proteomic analysis platform, incorporating the XTandem algorithm as a complementary tool for verification of single-peptide protein identifications. We have achieved this using open-source software, including several data-manipulation software tools developed in our laboratory, which are freely available to download.
17123826	Biophotons are ultraweak light emissions from biochemical reactions in a living body. They increase in suspension-cultured rice (Oryza sativa L.) cells when elicited by N-acetylchitooligosaccharide. Biochemical analyses were undertaken to investigate the relationship between disease response and biophotons in order to clarify the emission mechanism of biophotons caused by this elicitor. Photon emissions induced by N-acetylchitohexaose were suppressed when cells were pretreated with the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-generating inhibitors: pyrocatechol-3,5-disulfonic acid disodium salt (Tiron); diphenylene iodonium (DPI); and salicylhydroxamic acid (SHAM). Conversely, exogenously applied ROS (superoxide and hydrogen peroxide) were able to induce photon emissions. The effects of protein phosphorylation (K-252a) and the Ca(2+) signaling inhibitors, ethylene glycol-bis(beta-aminoethylether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA) and LaCl(3), caused photon emissions to decrease. It is clear that photon emissions from rice cells elicited by N-acetylchitohexaose are closely associated with the ROS-generating system, and are regulated by Ca(2+) signaling and protein phosphorylation. Exogenously applied phosphatidic acid (PA), the second messenger in the signal transduction of disease response, raised photon emissions in rice cells. Comparisons of photon emissions from PA and N-acetylchitohexaose regarding time courses, spectral compositions, and the inhibition ratios of several inhibitors, as well as a loss- and gain-of-function assay using the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) and PA, showed the possibility that photon emissions from rice cells elicited by N-acetylchitooligosaccharide were generated through PA, an intermediate of phospholipid signaling.
17124376	The neutral amino acid transporters SNAT1-3 and ASCT1 play critical roles in the recycling of glutamine, and subsequently glutamate, via the glutamine-glutamate cycle. Hypoxia-ischemia was induced in rat pups using the Rice-Vannucci model. Brains were harvested at 1 h, 24 h and 7 days after ischemia. The expression of NAATs was evaluated using immunoblotting, real-time PCR, and immunohistochemistry. Results were compared with age-matched controls and shams. SNAT1 mRNA decreased at 1 h after injury in both hemispheres when compared with the control animals and correlated with a decrease in protein expression at 24 h in the hippocampus and cortex. SNAT1 protein expression increased globally at 7 days after injury and specifically in the hippocampus. Finally, SNAT2 and 3 demonstrated subtle changes in various brain regions after injury. These data suggest that neutral amino acid transporters remain largely intact after hypoxia-ischemia.
17125131	An antibiotic, cefotaxime (Omnatax) has been found to promote somatic embryogenesis and subsequent plant regeneration in vitro in indica-type basmati rice cultures. Response was highly genotype specific. The number, mass and morphology of the calli formed on the scutellar tissues were dependent on the growth medium (with or without cefotaxime). The embryogenic nature of nodular calli was confirmed through histological analysis and their plant regeneration ability. The calli of variety Pusa basmati 1 grown on medium supplemented with cefotaxime (100 mg/L) exhibited up to 70.5% plant regeneration as compared to control (51.51%). Plants regenerated from emryogenic calli were phenotypically normal and identical to seed-derived plants and exhibited normal fertility. A limited humidity and an optimal aeration of the culture tubes further enhanced the frequency of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration.
17125501	The survivorship and distribution of Anopheles arabiensis larvae and pupae was examined in a rice agro-ecosystem in Mwea Irrigation Scheme, central Kenya, from August 2005 to April 2006, prior to implementation of larval control programme. Horizontal life tables were constructed for immatures in semi-field condition. The time spent in the various immature stages was determined and survival established. Vertical life tables were obtained from five paddies sampled by standard dipping technique. Pre-adult developmental time for An. arabiensis in the trays in the experimental set up in the screen house was 11.85 days from eclosion to emergence. The mean duration of each instar stage was estimated to be 1.40 days for first instars, 2.90 days for second instars, 1.85 days for third instars, 3.80 days for fourth instars and 1.90 days for pupae. A total of 590 individuals emerged into adults, giving an overall survivorship from L1 to adult emergence of 69.4%. A total of 4,956 An. arabiensis immatures were collected in 1,400 dips throughout the sampling period. Of these, 55.9% were collected during the tillering stage, 42.5% during the transplanting period and 1.6% during the land preparation stage. There was a significant difference in the An. arabiensis larval densities among the five stages. Also there was significant variation in immature stage composition for each day's collection in each paddy. These results indicate that the survival of the immatures was higher in some paddies than others. The mortality rate during the transplanting was 99.9% and at tillering was 96.6%, while the overall mortality was 98.3%. The survival of An. arabiensis immatures was better during the tillering stage of rice growth. Further the survival of immatures in rice fields is influenced by the rice agronomic activities including addition of nitrogenous fertilizers and pesticides. For effective integrated vector management, the application of larvicides should target An. arabiensis larvae at the tillering stage (early vegetative stage of rice) when their survival in the aquatic habitats is high to significantly reduce them and the larvicides should be long-lasting to have a significant impact on the malaria vector productivity on the habitats.
17125584	Chromosome segment substitution (CSS) lines have the potential for use in QTL fine mapping and map-based cloning. The standard t-test used in the idealized case that each CSS line has a single segment from the donor parent is not suitable for non-idealized CSS lines carrying several substituted segments from the donor parent. In this study, we present a likelihood ratio test based on stepwise regression (RSTEP-LRT) that can be used for QTL mapping in a population consisting of non-idealized CSS lines. Stepwise regression is used to select the most important segments for the trait of interest, and the likelihood ratio test is used to calculate the LOD score of each chromosome segment. This method is statistically equivalent to the standard t-test with idealized CSS lines. To further improve the power of QTL mapping, a method is proposed to decrease multicollinearity among markers (or chromosome segments). QTL mapping with an example CSS population in rice consisting of 65 non-idealized CSS lines and 82 chromosome segments indicated that a total of 18 segments on eight of the 12 rice chromosomes harboured QTLs affecting grain length under the LOD threshold of 2.5. Three major stable QTLs were detected in all eight environments. Some minor QTLs were not detected in all environments, but they could increase or decrease the grain length constantly. These minor genes are also useful in marker-assisted gene pyramiding.
17126013	Lignin contained in pulping liquor that is generated during the pulping process for papermaking is a disposal problem for the pulp and paper industry. Separating lignin and other organic components from pulping liquor with inorganic acids may improve its applicability to fields as a beneficial soil amendment while offering a potential disposal alternative. Sulfuric acid-precipitated lignin from rice straw pulping liquor applied at rates of 1.67 and 3.34 g C kg(-1) soil was incubated to evaluate its effects on soil properties over 8 weeks of incubation. Addition of this acid-precipitated lignin at these rates decreased soil pH by 0.24-0.53 units over 8 weeks of incubation, suggesting that this sulfuric acid-precipitated lignin from pulping liquor may have potential as a soil acidifying agent. Soil electrical conductivity (EC) only increased by up to 0.36 d Sm(-1), but highest EC levels were less than 4 d Sm(-1), indicating that lignin applied at both rates would not cause salinity problems. Application of this lignin increased soil organic C by 1.46 and 3.13 g C kg(-1), and total soil N by 0.07 and 0.17 g N kg(-1) over the incubation period. Lignin improved the macroaggregation of >2mm size fraction, and increased wet microaggregate stability of >2mm and 0.5-0.25 mm aggregates compared to a nonamended control. The results of this study suggest that this acid-precipitated lignin from pulping liquor may have potential as a beneficial soil amendment.
17127465	Carbohydrate foods, which produce low glycemic responses, have been shown to be beneficial in the dietary management of chronic diseases such as diabetes and hyperlipidemia. This study determined the starch digestion rate in vitro and, in a randomised crossover design, the postprandial blood glucose response of 10 healthy and nine type 2 diabetic volunteers to brown rice compared to milled rice from the same batch and variety. The total sugar released in vitro was 23.7% lower in brown rice than in milled rice. In healthy volunteers, the glycemic area and glycemic index were, respectively, 19.8% and 12.1% lower (p < 0.05) in brown rice than milled rice, while in diabetics, the respective values were 35.2% and 35.6% lower. The effect was partly due to the higher amounts of phytic acid, polyphenols, dietary fiber and oil in brown compared to milled rice and the difference in some physicochemical properties of the rice samples such as minimum cooking time and degree of gelatinisation. In conclusion, brown rice is a more health beneficial food for diabetics and hyperglycemic individuals than milled rice.
17128871	A screening method is described for determining 200 pesticides, except dimethipin, divided into four groups by means of gas chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (GC/MS/MS) using an ion trap mass spectrometer equipped with automated gain control (AGC). The quantitation limit for 194 pesticides was 0.01 mg/kg on a crop basis, except for allidochlor, dimethoate, hexythiazox, methamidophos and triadimenol. The calibration curve of each pesticide was linear in the range of 0.04-5.0 microg/mL. One hundred and ninety-nine pesticides were added to matrix of potato, spinach, cabbage, apple, orange, soybean and unpolished rice at twice the limits of quantitation. The recoveries of 194 pesticides from all crops were satisfactory (50-150%) for screening purposes. Although some pesticides in apple and orange were not determined by selected ion monitoring (SIM) analysis at the limits of quantitation, all of them were identified by ion-trap GC/MS/MS at the same concentration. Thus, the ion trap GC/MS/MS technique is useful for the screening of residual pesticides present at low levels in agricultural products.
17128873	The applicability of GC, GC/MS and liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) to screening for 140 pesticides in agricultural products was examined. Validation of multi-residue screening methods for the determination of 88 pesticides in 12 crops (asparagus, cauliflower, burdock, carrot, broccoli, spinach, matsutake mushroom, orange, soybean, sesame, millet and tea) was done by GC and GC/MS. Of the 88 pesticides, 63 were obtained with recoveries in the range from 50 to 150% at the 0.1 microg/g level in the 12 crops. Applicability of the official methods in Japan to 74 pesticides, including 22 pesticides with low recovery (< 50%) by GC or GC/MS analysis, was also examined by LC/MS/MS. LC/MS/MS acquisition parameters were established for 67 pesticides in positive and negative electrospray ionization (ESI) modes. Of 67 pesticides validated in 7 crops using LC/MS/MS at the 0.1 microg/g level, 44 showed recoveries in the range from 50 to 150%. The occurrence of matrix interference in LC/MS/MS can lead to false-positive detection of MCPA in spinach, cabbage and orange and false-negative detection of four pesticides in orange, spinach, apple and unpolished rice. Good linearity was observed in the studied ranges by GC, GC/MS (r > 0.990) and LC/MS/MS (r > 0.995). Of the total of 140 pesticides validated by GC, GC/MS and LC/MS/MS, 107 were newly recognized as suitable subjects for screening.
17129133	We report the results of simulation studies of the statistics of vibrational dephasing of a YCl (Y=H, D, T, and I) diatom in dense fluid Ar at two temperatures, including the effect of strong field driving on the energy level modulation statistics. The distribution of energy level modulations is found to be non-Gaussian with a high energy tail. Aspects of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) between the vibrational levels of HCl in dense fluid Ar have been investigated. For HCl with nearly degenerate v=0-->v=1 and v=1-->v=2 transitions, the combined effect of modulation and power broadening reduces the STIRAP efficiency for population transfer from v=0 to v=2 of the order of 30%. However, if the transitions used have very different frequencies, as in the original model studied by Demirplak and Rice [J. Chem. Phys. 116, 8028 (2002)], the STIRAP efficiency for population transfer remains high, of the order of 80%, even with non-Gaussian modulation of energy levels.
17129312	Rice biotechnology has made rapid advances since the first transgenic rice plants were produced 15 years ago. Over the past decade, this progress has resulted in the development of high frequency, routine and reproducible genetic transformation protocols for rice. This technology has been applied to produce rice plants that withstand several abiotic stresses, as well as to gain tolerance against various pests and diseases. In addition, quality improving and increased nutritional value traits have also been introduced into rice. Most of these gains were not possible through conventional breeding technologies. Transgenic rice system has been used to understand the process of transformation itself, the integration pattern of transgene as well as to modulate gene expression. Field trials of transgenic rice, especially insect-resistant rice, have recently been performed and several other studies that are prerequisite for safe release of transgenic crops have been initiated. New molecular improvisations such as inducible expression of transgene and selectable marker-free technology will help in producing superior transgenic product. It is also a step towards alleviating public concerns relating to issues of transgenic technology and to gain regulatory approval. Knowledge gained from rice can also be applied to improve other cereals. The completion of the rice genome sequencing together with a rich collection of full-length cDNA resources has opened up a plethora of opportunities, paving the way to integrate data from the large-scale projects to solve specific biological problems.
17129318	The flavour or fragrance of basmati and jasmine rice is associated with the presence of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline. A recessive gene (fgr) on chromosome 8 of rice has been linked to this important trait. Here, we show that a gene with homology to the gene that encodes betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BAD) has significant polymorphisms in the coding region of fragrant genotypes relative to non-fragrant genotypes. The accumulation of 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline in fragrant rice genotypes may be explained by the presence of mutations resulting in a loss of function of the fgr gene product. The allele in fragrant genotypes has a mutation introducing a stop codon upstream of key amino acid sequences conserved in other BADs. The fgr gene corresponds to the gene encoding BAD2 in rice, while BAD1 is encoded by a gene on chromosome 4. BAD has been linked to stress tolerance in plants. However, the apparent loss of function of BAD2 does not seem to limit the growth of fragrant rice genotypes. Fragrance in domesticated rice has apparently originated from a common ancestor and may have evolved in a genetically isolated population, or may be the outcome of a separate domestication event. This is an example of effective human selection for a recessive trait during domestication.
17130684	We report a case of an urticarial reaction after drinking alcohol beverages. The patient was a 47-year-old man suffering urticarial and anaphylactoid reaction to alcohol for two years. These reactions were observed at every alcohol beverages intake. We performed a prick test with diluted ethanol, alcohol beverages and their metabolites (acetaldehyde, acetic acid). Only acetic acid showed a positive result. Oral challenge test with diluted-ethanol caused pruritus and swelling of his lips. An oral challenge test with 8% diluted Shochu (Japanese distilled alcohol from rice or wheat) caused wheals on his upper back. Only acetic acid, a metabolite of alcohol, induced a positive prick test in the patient with alcohol-induced urticaria. This result was not observed in normal volunteers. An oral challenge test with diluted-alcohol or Shochu showed a positive wheal reaction in a dose dependent-manner which suggests that urticaria seen in this patient might be induced by alcohol-intolerance. However possible allergic reaction to acetaldehyde could not be excluded.
17131105	Stigma exsertion is one of the important traits which contribute to the efficient improvement of commercial seed production in hybrid rice. In order to understand the genetic factors involved in the stigma exsertion of an indica variety--IR24--a QTL analysis was conducted using the F2 population between a japonica variety--Koshihikari--and a breeding line showing exserted stigma selected from the backcross population between IR24 as a donor and japonica varieties. As a result, a highly significant QTL (qES3), which had been predicted in the recombinant inbred population of IR24, was confirmed at the centromeric region on chromosome 3. qES3 increases about 20% of the frequency of the exserted stigmas at the IR24 allele and explains about 32% of the total phenotypic variance. A QTL near-isogenic line for qES3 increased the frequency of the exserted stigma by 36% compared to that of Koshihikari in a field evaluation, which suggests that qES3 is a promising QTL for the development of a maternal line for hybrid rice.
17131106	The yellow colour of durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var durum) semolina is due in part to the presence of carotenoid pigments found in the endosperm and is an important end-use quality trait. We hypothesized that variation in the genes coding for phytoene synthase (Psy), a critical enzyme in carotenoid biosynthesis, may partially explain the phenotypic variation in endosperm colour observed among durum cultivars. Using rice sequence information, primers were designed to PCR clone and sequence the Psy genes from Kofa (high colour) and W9262-260D3 (medium colour) durum cultivars. Sequencing confirmed the presence of four Psy genes in each parent, corresponding to a two member gene family designated as Psy1-1, Psy1-2 and Psy2-1 and Psy2-2. A genetic map was constructed using 155 F1-derived doubled haploid lines from the cross W9262-260D3/Kofa with 194 simple sequence repeat and DArT markers. Using Psy1-1 and Psy2-1 allele-specific markers and chromosome mapping, the Psy1 and Psy2 genes were located to the group 7 and 5 chromosomes, respectively. Four quantitative trait loci (QTL) underlying phenotypic variation in endosperm colour were identified on chromosomes 2A, 4B, 6B, and 7B. The Psy1-1 locus co-segregated with the 7B QTL, demonstrating an association of this gene with phenotypic variation for endosperm colour. This work is the first report of mapping Psy genes and supports the role of Psy1-1 in elevated levels of endosperm colour in durum wheat. This gene is a target for the further development of a molecular marker to enhance selection for endosperm colour in durum wheat breeding programs.
17131138	Cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) is comprised of two subspecies: japonica and indica. Polymorphism levels between putative homologues were determined for genes whose japonica homologue had been classified into functional categories using the Gene Ontology (GO) system. Genes were partitioned into below-average and above-average polymorphism groups, and then the set of genes having each GO term was checked for the randomness of its distribution into these polymorphism groups using a series of False Discovery Rate (FDR) tests. The robustness of the conclusions was enhanced by employing different cutoff values and sequence samplings in the FDR tests. Significant nonrandom polymorphism distributions were found for protein-coding sequences in many GO categories. In contrast, a random distribution for nearly all GO terms was seen with intron sequences. These results were extended by measuring the nonsynonymous to synonymous codon usage ratio (dN/dS) using a permutation test, which showed that some above-average polymorphism GO categories also had a high proportion of genes with a dN/dS ratio greater than one, suggesting positive selection on these GO categories during indica-japonica differentiation. An analysis of predominant gene names in the significant GO categories divided them into four functional classes: production of defense-related compounds, cell wall, cell signaling, and transcription factors.
17132620	Mature pollen from most plant species is metabolically quiescent; however, after pollination, it germinates quickly and gives rise to a pollen tube to transport sperms into the embryo sac. Because methods for collecting a large amount of in vitro germinated pollen grains for transcriptomics and proteomics studies from model plants of Arabidopsis and rice are not available, molecular information about the germination developmental process is lacking. Here we describe a method for obtaining a large quantity of in vitro germinating rice pollen for proteomics study. Two-dimensional electrophoresis of approximately 2300 protein spots revealed 186 that were differentially expressed in mature and germinated pollen. Most showed a changed level of expression, and only 66 appeared to be specific to developmental stages. Furthermore 160 differentially expressed protein spots were identified on mass spectrometry to match 120 diverse protein species. These proteins involve different cellular and metabolic processes with obvious functional skew toward wall metabolism, protein synthesis and degradation, cytoskeleton dynamics, and carbohydrate/energy metabolism. Wall metabolism-related proteins are prominently featured in the differentially expressed proteins and the pollen proteome as compared with rice sporophytic proteomes. Our study also revealed multiple isoforms and differential expression patterns between isoforms of a protein. These results provide novel insights into pollen function specialization.
17132630	In higher plants, circadian rhythms are highly relevant to a wide range of biological processes. To such circadian rhythms, the clock (oscillator) is central, and recent intensive studies on the model higher plant Arabidopsis thaliana have begun to shed light on the molecular mechanisms underlying the functions of the central clock. Such representative clock-associated genes of A. thaliana are the homologous CCA1 and LHY genes, and five PRR genes that belong to a small family of pseudo-response regulators including TOC1. Others are GI, ZTL, ELF3, ELF4, LUX/PCL1, etc. In this context, a simple question arose as to whether or not the molecular picture of the model Arabidopsis clock is conserved in other higher plants. Here we made an effort to answer the question with special reference to Oryza sativa, providing experimental evidence that this model monocot also has a set of highly conserved clock-associated genes, such as those designated as OsCCA1, OsPRR-series including OsTOC1/OsPRR1, OsZTLs, OsPCL1 as well as OsGI. These results will provide us with insight into the general roles of plant circadian clocks, such as those for the photoperiodic control of flowering time that has a strong impact on the reproduction and yield in many higher plants.
17132634	We demonstrated that magnesium (Mg) can alleviate aluminum (Al) toxicity in rice bean [Vigna umbellata (Thunb.) Ohwi & Ohashi] more effectively than is expected from a non-specific cation response. Micromolar concentrations of Mg alleviated the inhibition of root growth by Al but not by lanthanum, and neither strontium nor barium at the micromolar level alleviates Al toxicity. Aluminum also induced citrate efflux from rice bean roots, and this response was stimulated by inclusion of 10 microM Mg in the treatment solution. The increase in the Al-induced citrate efflux by Mg paralleled the improvement in root growth, suggesting that the ameliorative effect of Mg might be related to greater citrate efflux. Vanadate (an effective H+-ATPase inhibitor) decreased the Al-induced citrate efflux, while addition of Mg partly restored the efflux. Mg addition also increased the activity of Al-reduced plasma membrane H+-ATPase, as well as helping to maintain the Mg and calcium contents in root apices. We propose that the addition of Mg to the toxic Al treatment helps maintain the tissue Mg content and the activity of the plasma membrane H+-ATPase. These changes enhanced the Al-dependent efflux of citrate which provided extra protection from Al stress.
17132712	The impacts of drought on plant growth and development limit cereal crop production worldwide. Rice (Oryza sativa) productivity and production is severely affected due to recurrent droughts in almost all agroecological zones. With the advent of molecular and genomic technologies, emphasis is now placed on understanding the mechanisms of genetic control of the drought-stress response. In order to identify genes associated with water-stress response in rice, ESTs generated from a normalized cDNA library, constructed from drought-stressed leaf tissue of an indica cultivar, Nagina 22 were used. Analysis of 7794 cDNA sequences led to the identification of 5815 rice ESTs. Of these, 334 exhibited no significant sequence homology with any rice ESTs or full-length cDNAs in public databases, indicating that these transcripts are enriched during drought stress. Analysis of these 5815 ESTs led to the identification of 1677 unique sequences. To characterize this drought transcriptome further and to identify candidate genes associated with the drought-stress response, the rice data were compared with those for abiotic stress-induced sequences obtained from expression profiling studies in Arabidopsis, barley, maize, and rice. This comparative analysis identified 589 putative stress-responsive genes (SRGs) that are shared by these diverse plant species. Further, the identified leaf SRGs were compared to expression profiles for a drought-stressed rice panicle library to identify common sequences. Significantly, 125 genes were found to be expressed under drought stress in both tissues. The functional classification of these 125 genes showed that a majority of them are associated with cellular metabolism, signal transduction, and transcriptional regulation.
17133447	To improve the mechanical properties of the composites of poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA, LA/GA = 80/20) and the carbonate hydroxyapatite (CHAP) particles, the rice-form or claviform CHAP particles with 30-40 nm in diameter and 100-200 nm in length were prepared by precipitation method. The uncalcined CHAP particles have a coarse surface with a lot of global protuberances, which could be in favor of the interaction of the matrix polymer to the CHAP particles. The nanocomposites of PLGA and surface grafted CHAP particles (g-CHAP) were prepared by solution mixing method. The structure and properties of the composites were subsequently investigated by the emission scanning electron microscopy, the tensile strength testing, and the cell culture. When the contents of g-CHAP were in the range of 2-15 wt %, the PLGA/g-CHAP nanocomposites exhibited an improved elongation at break and tensile strength. At the 2 wt % content of g-CHAP, the fracture strain was increased to 20% from 4-5% for neat PLGA samples. Especially at g-CHAP content of 15 wt %, the tensile strength of PLGA/g-CHAP composite was about 20% higher than that of neat PLGA materials. The tensile moduli of composites were increased with the increasing of filler contents, so that the g-CHAP particles had both reinforcing and toughening effects on the PLGA composites. The results of biocompatibility test showed that the higher g-CHAP contents in PLGA composite facilitated the adhesion and proliferation properties of osteoblasts on the PLGA/g-CHAP composite film.
17133769	Differential display (DD) experiments were performed on drought-tolerant rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotype N22 to identify both upregulated and downregulated partial cDNAs with respect to moisture stress. DNA polymorphism was detected between drought-stressed and control leaf tissues on the DD gels. A partial cDNA showing differential expression, with respect to moisture stress was isolated from the gel. Northern blotting analysis was performed using this cDNA as a probe and it was observed that mRNA corresponding to this transcript was accumulated to high level in rice leaves under water deficit stress. At the DNA sequence level, the partial cDNA showed homology with psb A gene encoding for Dl protein.
17133800	Randomly selected food commodities, categorized in product groups, were investigated for the presence and number of Bacillus cereus bacteria. If positive, and when possible, five separate colonies were isolated and investigated for the presence of four virulence factors: presence of genes encoding three enterotoxins (hemolysin BL [HBL], nonhemolytic enterotoxin [NHE], and cytotoxin K) and the ability to produce cereulide. In addition, the presence of psychrotrophic and mesophilic signatures was determined. The genes for NHE are found in more than 97% of the isolates, those for HBL in approximately 66% of the isolates, and the gene for cytotoxin K in nearly 50% of the isolates. Significant associations between product groups and (combinations of) virulence factors were the relatively low percentage of isolates from the "flavorings" group containing genes encoding NHE and the higher-than-average occurrence of both the genes encoding HBL and NHE in the "pastry" group. Cereulide was produced by 8.2% of the isolates but only in combination with the presence of genes for one or more other virulence factors. Most isolates (89.9%) were mesophilic; minorities of the isolates were psychrotrophic (4.4%) or of intermediate signature (5.7%). In the product group "milk and milk products," the incidence of strains with psychrotrophic or intermediate signatures is significantly higher than in the other product groups. In the product groups "flavorings," "milk and milk products," "vegetable(s) and vegetable products," "pastry," and "ready-to-eat foods," a relatively high number of samples contain high numbers of B. cereus bacteria. Within the product group "ready-to-eat foods," the products containing rice and pasta show a relatively high incidence of high numbers of B. cereus bacteria.
17134391	A widely applicable bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase-directed, tissue-specific and inducible over-expression of foreign genes in transgenic plants was developed. This was achieved through the simultaneous transformation of a modified T7 RNA polymerase to specifically transcribe the foreign gene placed under the control of T7 expression signals. The T7 RNA polymerase recognized the chimeric uidA gene integrated randomly into tobacco and rice genomes. Results from the use of six different promoters with different tissue specificities indicated that the recombinant protein was expressed at a several-fold (3-10-fold) higher level when compared with transgenes expressed directly under the control of these tissue-specific promoters. An important feature of the T7 system in plants was the near-uniform expression in the independently transformed plants, in contrast with the large variations observed in transgene expression under the direct control of plant promoters. In addition, our results demonstrated the application of the T7 system in the regulation of transgene expression through chemically inducible mechanisms. This versatility of controlled and regulated expression offers a powerful tool that could be used in various programmes in plant biotechnology and genomic studies.
17134400	Transgenic rice expressing soybean glycinin in its endosperm was crossed with two types of low-glutelin mutants to determine how much storage the protein mutants can contribute to increases in glycinin accumulation. The glycinin level (102 microg/100 mg seed) in the parental transgenic line was enhanced to approximately 224-237 microg/100 mg seed within a genetic background deficient in glutelin (i.e. of low glutelins). The enrichment of this foreign gene product was compensated by a decrease in the expression of other endogenous prolamine and globulin storage proteins, resulting in an almost equivalent total amount of seed storage proteins. These results show that low storage protein mutants can provide potentially useful hosts for the expression of foreign genes, allowing a higher-level accumulation, because they can provide wider space for the accumulation of foreign gene products than in the normal host plant.
1713479	Cell suspension-derived rice (Oryza sativa L.) protoplasts were transformed by direct gene uptake. PEG-mediated transformation was more efficient than electroporation. Plasmid DNA containing a hygromycin phosphotransferase (HPT) gene (which confers hygromycin resistance) driven by the CaMV 35S promoter and a beta-D-glucuronidase (GUS) gene under control of the 1', 2' double promoter of the mannopine synthase (mas) locus of Agrobacterium tumefaciens was introduced into rice protoplasts. Southern analysis of DNA from transformed cell lines showed that the HPT and GUS genes were present intact. Both genes were expressed in transgenic cell suspensions. GUS activity was detected by histochemical staining of the cells and by enzyme assays. During a 12-day culture period the proportion of stained cells rose to a maximum and then decreased again. Considerably higher numbers of blue-stained cells were obtained when the transgenic cell lines were grown in the presence of 5-azacytidine. Transcripts of the GUS gene could not be detected, in contrast with the HPT gene. Plantlets were regenerated from one transgenic cell line. GUS activity was found in both leaf and root tissues of these plants, particularly, but not exclusively, in vascular bundles. A mouse dihydrofolate reductase coding sequence (DHFR), conferring methotrexate resistance, fused to the CaMV 35S promotor and the wild-type nopaline synthase (NOS) gene of A. tumefaciens were also introduced into rice protoplasts. Stable integration of both genes was confirmed by Southern analysis. Expression of the DHFR gene was demonstrated by high levels of resistance to methotrexate of the transgenic cell suspensions and by the presence of DHFR transcripts. Expression of the NOS gene at enzyme or RNA level was not detected. Southern analysis suggests that this gene was probably either methylated or scrambled in these lines.
17134893	The aim of this study was to characterize the defatted rice bran (DRB) employing HPLC for identifying the major phytochemicals in DRB and to examine its commercial potential as a source of bioactive phytochemicals leading to value addition of DRB otherwise used as cattle feed. Various solvent extracts showed the presence of oryzanols, tocols, and ferulic acid. Methanol was the most effective extractant under the optimized conditions of a material-solvent ratio of 1:15 (wt./vol.) and a time of extraction of 10h. The yields of total phenols, oryzanols and ferulic acid from DRB with methanol were 2204, 316, and 233 ppm, respectively. Enrichment of antioxidants in the crude methanolic extract (CME) was achieved by sequential extraction and fractionation, resulting in three enriched fractions, viz., acetone extract (AE), acetone extract-lipophilic fraction (AE-LP) and acetone extract-polar fraction (AE-PP). While AE-LP was enriched in oryzanols and tocols by about 65 times, AE-PP was enriched in ferulic acid by 70 times as compared to their contents in DRB.
17136305	A transcription factor RCBF2 which interacts with C-repeat/DRE was isolated from Oryza sativa L. by a yeast one-hybrid method. Analysis of the deduced RCBF2 amino acid sequence revealed that RCBF2 contained a conserved ethylene-responsive element binding protein (EREBP)/AP2 domain of 59 amino acids and a potential nuclear localization sequence. RCBF2 showed a high level of homology with other CBF family members only in AP2 domain. Phylogenetic analysis showed that RCBF2 might be different from other eight DRE-binding proteins on evolutionary relationship. The semi-quantitative RT-PCR (s-Q RT-PCR) analysis indicated the expression of RCBF2 gene was induced by cold, dehydration and high-salinity, but not by abscisic acid, and the transcription of RCBF2 gene accumulated primarily in rice immature seeds, growing point and shoots.
17136306	Fragmentation rate constants, which can be used to estimate the tensile strength of fungal hyphae, were used to elucidate relationships between morphological changes and addition of fatty acids during cephalosporin C production in Acremonium chrysogenum M35. The number of arthrospores increased gradually during fermentation, and, in particular, was higher in the presence of rice oil, oleic acid or linoleic acid than in their absence. Because supplementation of rice oil or fatty acids increased cephalosporin C, we concluded that differentiation to arthrospores is related to cephalosporin C production. To estimate the relative tensile strengths of fungal hyphae, fragmentation rate constants (k (frag)) were measured. When rice oil, oleic acid, or linoleic acid were added into medium, fragmentation rate constants were higher than for the control, and hyphal tensile strengths reduced. The relative tensile strength of fungal hyphae, however was not constant presumably due to differences in physiological state.
17136348	The transposon Mutator was first identified in maize, and is one of the most active mobile elements in plants. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome contains at least 200 Mutator-like elements (MULEs), which contain the Mutator-like transposase gene, and often additional genes. We have detected a novel type of MULEs in melon (CUMULE), which, besides the transposase, contains two ubiquitin-like specific protease-like sequences (ULP1). This element is not present in the observed location in some melon cultivars. Multiple copies of this element exist in the Cucumis melo genome, and it has been detected in other Cucurbitaceae species. Analysis of the A. thaliana genome revealed more than 90 CUMULE-like elements, containing one or two Ulp1-like sequences, although no evidence of mobility exists for these elements. We detected various putative transposable elements containing ULP1-like sequences in rice. The discovery of these MULEs in melon and Arabidopsis, and the existence of similar elements in rice and maize, suggest that a proteolytic function may be important for this subset of the MULE transposable elements.
17136427	Physalopterid nematodes identified as Heliconema longissimum (Ortlepp, 1923) were collected from the stomach of rice-paddy eels Pisodonophis boro (Hamilton) (Anguilliformes: Ophichthidae) from two brackish-water localities (mangroves) in Thailand: one in Phan-Nga Province, southwestern Thailand, northeast of Phuket Island, and one in Ranong Province, near the border with Myanmar. Study of the morphology of this hitherto insufficiently known nematode species, including its first SEM examination, enabled a detailed redescription of H. longissimum. Present taxonomic problems in the subfamily Proleptinae Schulz, 1927 are discussed, where a new delimitation of Proleptus Dujardin, 1845, Heliconema Travassos, 1919 and Paraleptus Wu, 1927 is proposed based on the cephalic dentation. H. minnanensis [sic] Damin & Heqing, 2001 is transferred to Paraleptus Wu, 1927 as P. minnanensis (Damin & Heqing, 2001) n. comb. and Paraleptus chiloscyllii Yin & Zhang, 1983 transferred by Damin & Heqing (2001) to Heliconema, is retained in Paraleptus. H. ahiri Karve, 1941 is considered a junior synonym of H. longissimum (Ortlepp, 1923). The present finding of H. longissimum in Pisodonophis boro represents the first host record and the first record of this nematode from Thailand.
17137120	Biosurfactants are surface active substances which reduce interfacial tension and are produced or excreted at the microbial cell surface. We evaluated the biosurfactant production by Aspergillus fumigatus and Phialemonium sp. in solid state processes using fixed-bed column reactors. We evaluated two media, rice husks alone (simple support) and rice husks plus defatted rice bran (complex support), both enriched with either soy oil or diesel oil. The highest water-in-oil emulsifying activity (EAw/o) obtained was 7.36 EU g(-1) produced by A. fumigatus growing on complex support enriched with soy oil and supplied with air at a rate of 60 mL g(-1) h(-1), while Phialemonium sp. had a maximum production of 6.11 EU g(-1) using the simple support with diesel oil and an aeration rate of 120 mL g(-1) h(-1). The highest oil-in-water emulsifying activity (EAo/w) was 12.21 EU g(-1) produced by Phialemonium sp. on the complex support enriched with diesel oil and at an aeration rate of 60 mL g(-1) h(-1), while A. fumigatus produced a maximum EAo/w of 10.98 EU g(-1) when growing on the complex support with no additional carbon source and an aeration rate of 60 mL g(-1) 1 h(-1).
17138542	Ac and Ds insertions among the genomic DNAs of hybrids of Ac x Ds lines were screened by PCR. The genomic DNAs, which were proved to harbour both Ac and Ds, were used as templates in TAIL-PCR to clone the Ds flanking sequences. The cloned specific fragments were sequenced, and the sequenced Ds flanking sequences were used as query sequences to perform on-line sequence comparing analysis against GenBank by employing BLAST program of NCBI. The information about the chromosome location of Ds-inserted genes, or genes immediately downstream of the inserted sites, and their functional innotations were achieved. Based on the analysis from the cloned 93 Ds-flanking sequences, it was found that 21 hybrid plants had Ds insertions in genic regions, whereas the remaining 72 samples's intergenic regions were inserted by Ds element. Moreover, among the 72 regions, 12 were inserted immediately upstream (within 3 kb) of specific genes. Also, the strategies to improve the performance in cloning the Ds flanking sequences and in screening the Ac/Ds lines were emphasized.
17138543	Submergence stress has severe harm to rice (Oryza sativa L.) production. It is important to identify molecular markers associated with tolerance to submergence for marker-assisted selection (MAS). F1 and F2 populations ware obtained from reciprocal crosses between submergence tolerant parent FR13A and submergence sensitive parent IR39595-503-2-1-2. No difference in reciprocal crosses in F1 population was detected for tolerance to submergence. This indicates that the submergence character is controlled by nucleic factor(s). Tolerance to submergence derived from FR13A appeared to be a quantitative-qualitative trait as revealed by the segregation of F2 population in two submergent experiments. Under light submergence stress, multiple minor genes might work and the trait inherited quantitatively it appeared a quantity trait, While under severe submergence stress, it exhibited a qualitative inheritance controlled by a major gene. Among the 187 pairs of SSR primers, 73 (39%) were polymorphic between the two parents and were used to tag submergence in the F2 population. Primer RM219 was detected to be linked to submergence tolerant trait loci. This result confirmed that tolerance to submergence is controlled by the major gene sub1, which will be helpful in improvement of the trait in rice.
17138549	Centromeres are the chromosomal domains necessary for faithful chromosome segregation and transmission during mitosis and meiosis in eukaryotes. In the last decade, centromeres in some plant species including Arabidopsis, rice and maize have been deeply studied at molecular level. Centromeric DNAs evolve rapidly and are little conserved among various plants, but the types of centromeric DNA sequences and their organization patterns within centromeres are basically similar in plants. Plant centromeres are usually composed of clusters of tandemly arrayed satellite repeats that are interspersed with centromere-specific retrotransposons. In contrast to centromeric DNA, structural and transient centromeric/kinetochoric proteins are conserved among eukaryotes including plants. As the cases in other eukaryotes, the presence of CENH3 (centromeric histone H3)-containing nucleosomes is the fundamental feature of plant functional centromeres, and CENH3 plays critical roles in the identity and maintenance of plant centromeric chromatin.
17138625	Using expression analysis, the role of the sucrose transporter OsSUT1 during germination and early growth of rice seedlings has been examined in detail, over a time-course ranging from 1 d to 7 d post-imbibition. Unlike the wheat orthologue, TaSUT1, which is thought to be directly involved in sugar transfer across the scutellar epithelium, OsSUT1 is not expressed in the scutellar epithelial cell layer of germinating rice and is, therefore, not involved in transport of sugars across the symplastic discontinuity between the endosperm and the embryo. OsSUT1 expression was also absent from the aleurone cells, indicating it is not involved in the transport of sucrose in this cell layer during germination. However, by 3 d post-imbibition, OsSUT1 was present in the companion cells and sieve elements of the scutellar vascular bundle, where it may play a role in phloem loading of sucrose for transport to the developing shoot and roots. This sucrose is most likely sourced from hexoses imported from the endosperm. In addition, sucrose may be remobilized from starch granules which are present at a high density in the scutellar ground tissues surrounding the vasculature and at the base of the shoot. OsSUT1 was also present in the coleoptile and the first and second leaf blades, where it was localized to the phloem along the entire length of these tissues, and was also present within the phloem of the primary roots. OsSUT1 may be involved in retrieval of sugars from the apoplasm in these tissues.
17138695	In flowering plants, tapetum degeneration is proposed to be triggered by a programmed cell death (PCD) process during late stages of pollen development; the PCD is thought to provide cellular contents supporting pollen wall formation and to allow the subsequent pollen release. However, the molecular basis regulating tapetum PCD in plants remains poorly understood. We report the isolation and characterization of a rice (Oryza sativa) male sterile mutant tapetum degeneration retardation (tdr), which exhibits degeneration retardation of the tapetum and middle layer as well as collapse of microspores. The TDR gene is preferentially expressed in the tapetum and encodes a putative basic helix-loop-helix protein, which is likely localized to the nucleus. More importantly, two genes, Os CP1 and Os c6, encoding a Cys protease and a protease inhibitor, respectively, were shown to be the likely direct targets of TDR through chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses and the electrophoretic mobility shift assay. These results indicate that TDR is a key component of the molecular network regulating rice tapetum development and degeneration.
17138699	In vegetative leaf tissues, cuticles including cuticular waxes are important for protection against nonstomatal water loss and pathogen infection as well as for adaptations to environmental stress. However, their roles in the anther wall are rarely studied. The innermost layer of the anther wall (the tapetum) is essential for generating male gametes. Here, we report the characterization of a T-DNA insertional mutant in the Wax-deficient anther1 (Wda1) gene of rice (Oryza sativa), which shows significant defects in the biosynthesis of very-long-chain fatty acids in both layers. This gene is strongly expressed in the epidermal cells of anthers. Scanning electron microscopy analyses showed that epicuticular wax crystals were absent in the outer layer of the anther and that microspore development was severely retarded and finally disrupted as a result of defective pollen exine formation in the mutant anthers. These biochemical and developmental defects in tapetum found in wda1 mutants are earlier events than those in other male-sterile mutants, which showed defects of lipidic molecules in exine. Our findings provide new insights into the biochemical and developmental aspects of the role of waxes in microspore exine development in the tapetum as well as the role of epicuticular waxes in anther expansion.
17139419	Rice (Oryza sativa ssp. indica) is an important economic crop in many countries. Although a variety of conventional methods have been developed to improve this plant, manipulation by genetic engineering is still complicated. We have established a system of multiple shoot regeneration from rice shoot apical meristem. By use of MS medium containing 4 mg L(-1) thidiazuron (TDZ) multiple shoots were successfully developed directly from the meristem without an intervening callus stage. All rice cultivars tested responded well on the medium and regenerated to plantlets that were readily transferred to soil within 5-8 weeks. The tissue culture system was suitable for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and different factors affecting transformation efficiency were investigated. Agrobacterium strain EHA105 containing the plasmid pCAMBIA1301 was used. The lowest concentration of hygromycin B in combined with either 250 mg L(-1) carbenicillin or 250 mg L(-1) cefotaxime to kill the rice shoot apical meristem was 50 mg L(-1) and carbenicillin was more effective than cefotaxime. Two-hundred micromolar acetosyringone had no effect on the efficiency of transient expression. Sonication of rice shoot apical meristem for 10 s during bacterial immersion increased transient GUS expression in three-day co-cultivated seedlings. The gus gene was found to be integrated into the genome of the T(0) transformant plantlets.
17140639	Cost and efficiency are two important factors considered in the remediation of Se-contaminated agricultural drainage water through bacterial reduction of soluble Se(VI) to insoluble Se(0). Bacillus sp. RS1 isolated from rice straw was assessed for its ability to use inexpensive molasses to reduce Se(VI) in agricultural drainage water containing NO3- levels of 0, 50, 100, 250, and 500 mg/L. The results showed that Se(VI) (1000 microg/L) was almost entirely reduced to Se(IV) (62.7%) and Se(0) (36.4%) by Bacillus sp. RS1 in synthetic agricultural drainage (SAD) water without the presence of NO3-. The reduction Se(VI) to Se(0) was limited in the SAD water with NO3- levels of 100, 250, and 500 mg/L. The addition of Dechloromonas sp., a NO3- reducer, to the SAD water not only increased NO3- removal, but also enhanced Se(VI) reduction by Bacillus sp. RS1. During an 8-day experiment, 98-99% of the added Se(VI) was reduced to Se(0) with small amounts of Se(IV) and Se(-II) in the SAD water containing 100 and 250 mg/L NO3-. The addition of Dechloromonas sp. HZ to the natural agricultural drainage water also significantly increased the reduction of Se(VI) (748 microg/L) by Bacillus sp. RS1, with a production of Se(0) (65%) and Se(-II) (32%). These results suggest that a combination of Bacillus sp. RS1 with Dechloromonas sp. HZ has great potential with the use of inexpensive molasses to remediate Se-contaminated agricultural drainage water containing relatively high NO3- levels.
17140843	Inflorescences in angiosperms are complex structures that have many different types of meristems. Among complex inflorescences, the best studied are in the grass family. Multiple inflorescence genes have been cloned from grasses over the past few years, many of them by positional cloning using the rice genome as a source of positional information. Several genes affect the apical meristem of the inflorescence differently from the lateral branch meristems, allowing morphological differentiation that permits diversification. ramosa1 (ra1), ra2, and ra3 have been cloned from maize and form part of a network of genes that control the production of lateral branching. Curiously, only ra2 is widely conserved; to date, ra1 and ra3 have been found only in Andropogoneae. Additional domestication genes that affect the inflorescence have also been cloned from maize, rice, and wheat.
17141283	The rice (Oryza sativa) genome contains a family of kaurene synthase-like genes (OsKSL) presumably involved in diterpenoid biosynthesis. While a number of OsKSL enzymes have been functionally characterized, several have not been previously investigated, and the gene family has not been broadly analyzed. Here we report cloning of several OsKSL genes and functional characterization of the encoded enzymes. In particular, we have verified the expected production of ent-kaur-16-ene by the gibberellin phytohormone biosynthesis associated OsKS1 and demonstrated that OsKSL3 is a pseudo-gene, while OsKSL5 and OsKSL6 produce ent-(iso)kaur-15-ene. Similar to previous reports, we found that our sub-species variant of OsKSL7 produces ent-cassa-12,15-diene, OsKSL10 produces ent-(sandaraco)pimar-8(14),15-diene, and OsKSL8 largely syn-stemar-13-ene, although we also identified syn-stemod-12-ene as an alternative product formed in approximately 20% of the reactions catalyzed by OsKSL8. Along with our previous reports identifying OsKSL4 as a syn-pimara-7,15-diene synthase and OsKSL11 as a syn-stemod-13(17)-ene synthase, this essentially completes biochemical characterization of the OsKSL gene family, enabling broader analyses. For example, because several OsKSL enzymes are involved in phytoalexin biosynthesis and their gene transcription is inducible, promoter analysis was used to identify a pair of specifically conserved motifs that may be involved in transcriptional up-regulation during the rice plant defense response. Also examined is the continuing process of gene evolution in the OsKSL gene family, which is particularly interesting in the context of very recently reported data indicating that a japonica sub-species variant of OsKSL5 produces ent-pimara-8(14),15-diene, rather than the ent-(iso)kaur-15-ene produced by the indica sub-species variant analyzed here.
17141928	We developed a new, three-step soil-wash method to remediate Cd-contaminated paddy fields. The method comprises (1) chemically washing the field soil with a CaCl2 solution; (2) washing the treated soil with water to eliminate residual Cd and CaCl2; and (3) on-site treatment of wastewater using a portable wastewater treatment system. Cd concentrations in the treated water were below Japan's environmental quality standard (0.01 mg Cd L-1), and the removal of Cd from the exchangeable fraction was 55% and from the acid-soluble fraction 15%. While soil fertility properties were affected by the soil washing, adverse effects were not crucial and could be corrected. The washing had no affect on rice growth, and reduced the average Cd concentration in rice grains by about two-thirds compared to a control plot. These results confirmed the effectiveness of the soil-wash method in remediating Cd-contaminated paddy fields.
17142226	POGs/PlantRBP (http://plantrbp.uoregon.edu/) is a relational database that integrates data from rice, Arabidopsis, and maize by placing the complete Arabidopsis and rice proteomes and available maize sequences into 'putative orthologous groups' (POGs). Annotation efforts will focus on predicted RNA binding proteins (RBPs): i.e. those with known RNA binding domains or otherwise implicated in RNA function. POGs form the heart of the database, and were assigned using a mutual-best-hit-strategy after performing BLAST comparisons of the predicted Arabidopsis and rice proteomes. Each POG entry includes orthologs in Arabidopsis and rice, annotated with domain organization, gene models, phylogenetic trees, and multiple intracellular targeting predictions. A graphical display maps maize sequences on to their most similar rice gene model. The database can be queried using any combination of gene name, accession, domain, and predicted intracellular location, or using BLAST. Useful features of the database include the ability to search for proteins with both a specified domain content and intracellular location, the concurrent display of mutual best hits and phylogenetic trees which facilitates evaluation of POG assignments, the association of maize sequences with POGs, and the display of targeting predictions and domain organization for all POG members, which reveals consistency, or lack thereof, of those predictions.
17142239	We have designed and implemented a web-based database system, called PlantQTL-GE, to facilitate quantitatine traits locus (QTL) based candidate gene identification and gene function analysis. We collected a large number of genes, gene expression information in microarray data and expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and genetic markers from multiple sources of Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana. The system integrates these diverse data sources and has a uniform web interface for easy access. It supports QTL queries specifying QTL marker intervals or genomic loci, and displays, on rice or Arabidopsis genome, known genes, microarray data, ESTs and candidate genes and similar putative genes in the other plant. Candidate genes in QTL intervals are further annotated based on matching ESTs, microarray gene expression data and cis-elements in regulatory sequences. The system is freely available at http://www.scbit.org/qtl2gene/new/.
17142475	Formal description of plant phenotypes and standardized annotation of gene expression and protein localization data require uniform terminology that accurately describes plant anatomy and morphology. This facilitates cross species comparative studies and quantitative comparison of phenotypes and expression patterns. A major drawback is variable terminology that is used to describe plant anatomy and morphology in publications and genomic databases for different species. The same terms are sometimes applied to different plant structures in different taxonomic groups. Conversely, similar structures are named by their species-specific terms. To address this problem, we created the Plant Structure Ontology (PSO), the first generic ontological representation of anatomy and morphology of a flowering plant. The PSO is intended for a broad plant research community, including bench scientists, curators in genomic databases, and bioinformaticians. The initial releases of the PSO integrated existing ontologies for Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), maize (Zea mays), and rice (Oryza sativa); more recent versions of the ontology encompass terms relevant to Fabaceae, Solanaceae, additional cereal crops, and poplar (Populus spp.). Databases such as The Arabidopsis Information Resource, Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre, Gramene, MaizeGDB, and SOL Genomics Network are using the PSO to describe expression patterns of genes and phenotypes of mutants and natural variants and are regularly contributing new annotations to the Plant Ontology database. The PSO is also used in specialized public databases, such as BRENDA, GENEVESTIGATOR, NASCArrays, and others. Over 10,000 gene annotations and phenotype descriptions from participating databases can be queried and retrieved using the Plant Ontology browser. The PSO, as well as contributed gene associations, can be obtained at www.plantontology.org.
17142477	The salt tolerance of rice (Oryza sativa) correlates with the ability to exclude Na+ from the shoot and to maintain a low cellular Na+/K+ ratio. We have identified a rice plasma membrane Na+/H+ exchanger that, on the basis of genetic and biochemical criteria, is the functional homolog of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) salt overly sensitive 1 (SOS1) protein. The rice transporter, denoted by OsSOS1, demonstrated a capacity for Na+/H+ exchange in plasma membrane vesicles of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) cells and reduced their net cellular Na+ content. The Arabidopsis protein kinase complex SOS2/SOS3, which positively controls the activity of AtSOS1, phosphorylated OsSOS1 and stimulated its activity in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, OsSOS1 suppressed the salt sensitivity of a sos1-1 mutant of Arabidopsis. These results represent the first molecular and biochemical characterization of a Na+ efflux protein from monocots. Putative rice homologs of the Arabidopsis protein kinase SOS2 and its Ca2+-dependent activator SOS3 were identified also. OsCIPK24 and OsCBL4 acted coordinately to activate OsSOS1 in yeast cells and they could be exchanged with their Arabidopsis counterpart to form heterologous protein kinase modules that activated both OsSOS1 and AtSOS1 and suppressed the salt sensitivity of sos2 and sos3 mutants of Arabidopsis. These results demonstrate that the SOS salt tolerance pathway operates in cereals and evidences a high degree of structural conservation among the SOS proteins from dicots and monocots.
17142568	Magnaporthe grisea is responsible for a devastating fungal disease of rice called blast. Current control of this disease relies on resistant rice cultivars that recognize M. grisea signals corresponding to specific secreted proteins encoded by avirulence genes. The M. grisea ACE1 avirulence gene differs from others, since it controls the biosynthesis of a secondary metabolite likely recognized by rice cultivars carrying the Pi33 resistance gene. Using a transcriptional fusion between ACE1 promoter and eGFP, we showed that ACE1 is only expressed in appressoria during fungal penetration into rice and barley leaves, onion skin, and cellophane membranes. ACE1 is almost not expressed in appressoria differentiated on Teflon and Mylar artificial membranes. ACE1 expression is not induced by cellophane and plant cell wall components, demonstrating that it does not require typical host plant compounds. Cyclic AMP (cAMP) signaling mutants delta cpkA and delta mac1 sum1-99 and tetraspanin mutant delta pls1::hph differentiate melanized appressoria with normal turgor but are unable to penetrate host plant leaves. ACE1 is normally expressed in these mutants, suggesting that it does not require cAMP signaling or a successful penetration event. ACE1 is not expressed in appressoria of the buf1::hph mutant defective for melanin biosynthesis and appressorial turgor. The addition of hyperosmotic solutes to buf1::hph appressoria restores appressorial development and ACE1 expression. Treatments of young wild-type appressoria with actin and tubulin inhibitors reduce both fungal penetration and ACE1 expression. These experiments suggest that ACE1 appressorium-specific expression does not depend on host plant signals but is connected to the onset of appressorium-mediated penetration.
1714318	Rice genomic clones containing eight different alpha-amylase genes have been previously classified into five groups based on DNA hybridization studies and restriction site mapping. This report describes the clustering of three Group 3 genes (RAmy3A, RAmy3B and RAmy3C) within 28 kb of genomic DNA. The genes are separated from each other by about 5 kb and transcribed in the same direction. At the protein level, RAmy3B and RAmy3C are 95% homologous while each is 78% homologous to RAmy3A. All three genes have relatively small introns in the first and third positions. RAmy3A; however, has an additional 409 bp intron in the second intron insertion site. Nucleotide sequence comparisons of the coding and 3' flanking regions suggest that clustering of the RAmy3 genes occurred by gene duplication resulting from unequal crossing-over at repetitive sequences. A comparison of the 5' flanking regions revealed several sequences that may be involved in transcription. Expression of RAmy3B/C first appears in the germinating seed after two days and at a higher level after four days. Quantitative primer extension analysis indicates that RAmy3B and RAmy3C contribute 25% and 75%, respectively, of the transcripts from this cluster at four days of germination. No primer extension band specific to RAmy3A transcripts could be detected at this time point. However, RAmy3A PCR products could be amplified from RNA isolated from embryo-derived callus tissue.
17143410	Japanese Islands are covered with weathered volcanic rocks and soils. Terraced rice field are located in green-tuff areas which are very fertile but where landslides occur associated to strong earthquakes. The Xray diffraction and X-ray fluorescence analyses of the soils in landslide area identified predominant smectite and Mg, Al, Si, K, Ti, Mn and Fe are main components. The rice leaf showed that S, Cl, K and Ca play important roles for nutrients in the area. Drainpipe systems have set up in the green- tuff areas to reduce the risks of landslides. Reddish brown microbial mats inhabited bacteria and diatom in the drainpipe outlets. The microbial mats are rich in Fe and PO4(3-). The iron bacteria in the ground water have a high metabolic rate suggesting that the weathering materials were produced by not only physical and chemical influence but also by microorganism. Many microorganisms attach to mineral surfaces and show their high impact in the water mineral chemistry in the landslide area. Bacteria in the green-tuff over landslide area play important roles for sustainable agriculture including rice nutrition.
17143630	Paracentric inversion is known to inhibit genetic recombination between normal and inverted chromosomal segments in heterozygous arrangements. Insect inversion polymorphisms have been studied to reveal adaptive processes for maintaining genetic variation. We report the first paracentric inversion in rice (Oryza sativa), which was discovered in our effort to clone the floral organ number gene FON3. Recombination at the FON3 locus on the long arm of chromosome 11 was severely suppressed over a distance of more than 36 cM. An extensive screening among 8,242 F(2) progeny failed to detect any recombinants. Cytological analysis revealed a loop-like structure on pachytene chromosomes, whereas FISH analysis showed the migration of a BAC clone from a distal location to a position closer to the centromere. Interestingly, the locations where the genetic recombination suppression began were coincided with the positions of two physical gaps on the chromosome 11, suggesting a correlation between the physical gaps, the inversion breakpoints. Transposons and retrotransposons, and tandemly arranged members of gene families were among the sequences immediately flanking the gaps. Taken together, we propose that the genetic suppression at the FON3 locus was caused by a paracentric inversion. The possible genetic mechanism causing such a spontaneous inversion was proposed.
17143963	Rituximab has been associated with the development of cytomegalovirus enterocolitis in immunosuppressed patients. A 51-year-old patient with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma who received a conditioning chemotherapy regimen (RCVP and RICE) consisting of rituximab before bone marrow transplantation went on to develop cytomegalovirus enterocolitis. This supports evidence from previously described cases that rituximab may be associated with cytomegalovirus enterocolitis.
17144895	The methionine (Met) cycle contributes to sulfur metabolism through the conversion of methylthioadenosine (MTA) to Met at the expense of ATP. MTA is released as a by-product of ethylene synthesis from S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet). Disruption of the Met cycle in the Arabidopsis mtk mutant resulted in an imbalance of AdoMet homeostasis at sulfur-limiting conditions, irrespective of the sulfur source supplied to the plants. At a low concentration of 100 mum sulfate, the mtk mutant had reduced AdoMet levels and growth was retarded as compared with wild type. An elevated production of ethylene was measured in seedlings of the ethylene-overproducing eto3 mutant. When Met cycle knockout and ethylene overproduction were combined in the mtk/eto3 double mutant, a reduced capacity for ethylene synthesis was observed in seedlings. Even though mature eto3 plants did not produce elevated ethylene levels, and AdoMet homeostasis in eto3 plants did not differ from that in wild type, shoot growth was severely retarded. The mtk/eto3 double mutant displayed a metabolic plant phenotype that was similar to mtk with reduced AdoMet levels at sulfur-limiting conditions. We conclude from our data that the Met cycle contributes to the maintenance of AdoMet homeostasis, especially when de novo AdoMet synthesis is limited. Our data further showed that the Met cycle is required to sustain high rates of ethylene synthesis. Expression of the Met cycle genes AtMTN1, AtMTN2, AtMTK, AtARD1, AtARD2, AtARD3 and AtARD4 was not regulated by ethylene. This result is in contrast to that found in rice where OsARD1 and OsMTK are induced in response to ethylene. We hypothesize that the regulation of the Met cycle by ethylene may be restricted to plants that naturally produce high quantities of ethylene for a prolonged period of time.
17144896	Regulating the transition of meristem identity is a critical step in reproductive development. After the shoot apical meristem (SAM) acquires inflorescence meristem identity, it goes through a sequential transition to second- and higher-order meristems that can eventually give rise to floral organs. Despite ample information on the molecular mechanisms that control the transition from SAM to inflorescence meristems, little is known about the mechanism for inflorescence development, especially in monocots. Here, we report the identification of the SUPERNUMERARY BRACT (SNB) gene controlling the transition from spikelet meristem to floral meristem and the floral organ development. This gene encodes a putative transcription factor carrying two AP2 domains. The SNB:GFP fusion protein is localized to the nucleus. SNB is expressed in all the examined tissues, but most strongly in the newly emerging spikelet meristems. In SNB knockout plants, the transition from spikelet meristems to floral meristems is delayed, resulting in the production of multiple rudimentary glumes in an alternative phyllotaxy. The development of additional bracts interferes with subsequent floral architecture. In some spikelets, the empty glumes and lodicules are transformed into lemma/palea-like organs. Occasionally, the number of stamens and carpels is altered and an ectopic floret occurs in the axil of the rachilla. These phenotypes suggest that snb is a heterochronic mutant, affecting the phase transition of spikelet meristems, the pattern formation of floral organs and spikelet meristem determinancy.
17145706	In The Institute for Genomic Research Rice Genome Annotation project (http://rice.tigr.org), we have continued to update the rice genome sequence with new data and improve the quality of the annotation. In our current release of annotation (Release 4.0; January 12, 2006), we have identified 42,653 non-transposable element-related genes encoding 49,472 gene models as a result of the detection of alternative splicing. We have refined our identification methods for transposable element-related genes resulting in 13,237 genes that are related to transposable elements. Through incorporation of multiple transcript and proteomic expression data sets, we have been able to annotate 24 799 genes (31,739 gene models), representing approximately 50% of the total gene models, as expressed in the rice genome. All structural and functional annotation is viewable through our Rice Genome Browser which currently supports 59 tracks. Enhanced data access is available through web interfaces, FTP downloads and a Data Extractor tool developed in order to support discrete dataset downloads.
17146614	To gain a better understanding of the regulatory mechanism of plant metallothionein (MT) genes, a chimeric expression unit consisting of the beta-glucuronidase (gusA) reporter gene under the control of a 1,324 bp fragment of the rice MT (ricMT) promoter was introduced into Arabidopsis via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The strongest histochemical staining for GUS activity was observed in the cotyledons and hypocotyls of the transgenic seedlings and in the stigma, filaments and anthers of young and mature flowers, and especially in the wounded tissues of transgenic plants. In contrast, a relatively low level of reporter gene expression was seen in the young roots of transgenic seedlings and no GUS activity was detected in the stems, seeds and leaves, but GUS activity was observed in cotyledons and the first two true leaves. Promoter analysis of 5' deletions further identified several important regions responsible for organ-specific expression including roots, flowers and wound induction, light and ABA, Cu and Zn responses. These findings demonstrate that a 1,324 bp fragment of the rice MT promoter performs a complicated transcriptional regulation with clearly functional regions in a model plant, and provide an important insight into the transcriptional regulation mechanisms that operate the temporal- and spatial-specific expression and stress responses of the rice MT gene. These results suggest that the ricMT promoter and its functional regions are potentially useful in genetic engineering of plants to express the desired genes whose products are preferentially needed in roots, flowers and wound induction.
17146664	Ketan Nangka, the donor of wide compatibility genes, showed sterility when crossed to Tuanguzao, a landrace rice from Yunnan province, China. Genetic and cytological analyses revealed that the semi-sterility was primarily caused by partial abortion of the embryo sac. Genome-wide analysis of the linkage map constructed from the backcross population of Tuanguzao/Ketan Nangka//Ketan Nangka identified two independent loci responsible for the hybrid sterility located on chromosomes 2 and 5, which explained 18.6 and 20.1% of phenotypic variance, respectively. The gene on chromosome 5 mapped to the previously reported sterility gene S31(t), while the gene on chromosome 2, a new hybrid sterility gene, was tentatively designated as S32(t). The BC1F2 was developed for further confirmation and fine mapping of S32(t). The gene S32(t) was precisely mapped to the same region as that detected in the BC1F1 but its position was narrowed down to an interval of about 1.9 cM between markers RM236 and RM12475. By assaying the recombinant events in the BC1F2, S32(t) was further narrowed down to a 64 kb region on the same PAC clone. Sequence analysis of this fragment revealed seven predicted open reading frames, four of which encoded known proteins and three encoded putative proteins. Further analyses showed that wide-compatibility variety Dular had neutral alleles at loci S31(t) and S32(t) that can overcome the sterilities caused by these two genes. These results are useful for map-based cloning of S32(t) and for marker-assisted transferring of the neutral allele in hybrid rice breeding.
17146721	Host location and acceptance by egg parasitoids can be mediated by close-range host stimuli. In this study, we tested the response of Trichogramma japonicum Ashmead to cuticular extracts of adult and larval rice yellow stem borer (YSB), Scripophaga incertulas Walker. We also studied the wasps' response to extracts from YSB larval frass. Laboratory bioassays revealed that hexane extracts of the adult host body stimulate ovipositor probing of T. japonicum. Extracts of larval frass also stimulated parasitization. In contrast, host larval cuticular extracts had no effect on parasitization rates. Fractionation of the crude extracts of adult YSB cuticular extracts was performed using silica gel chromatography, followed by bioassays of the individual fractions to test their effects on wasp behavior. Analyses of the most active fractions by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry revealed that the extract contained saturated long chain alkanes and alkenes, with carbon numbers ranging from C20 to C32. Hydrocarbons were applied onto host eggs to test their effects on parasitization rates. Treatments of eggs with docosane, tetracosane, pentacosane, and eicosane enhanced host egg parasitization, while pentadecane, hexadecane, and nonadecane deterred oviposition.
17147162	With rice varieties salt-tolerant Liaoyan 2 and salt-sensitive Akihikari as test materials, this paper determined their leaf net photosynthetic rate (Pn), transpiration rate (Tr), stomatal conductivity (Gs), and intercellular CO2 concentration (Ci) at different light intensities under long-term NaCl stress. The results showed that under NaCl stress, the Pn and Gs of the two varieties had an increase tendency with increasing light intensity, but in comparing with no NaCl stress, the Pn of Liaoyan 2 increased by 14.87%, while that of Akihikari decreased by 17.91%. The dynamic changes of Ci, Ls and Pn/Gs indicated that stomatal and non-stamatal factors played a positive role in the changes of Liaoyan 2 photosynthesis, while stomatal factor was the main reason inducing the changes of Akihikari photosynthesis.
17147168	A field experiment with japonica rice variety Wuxiangjing 14 in 2002-2005 showed that the appropriate sowing rate was 150-180 g per tray (1624 cm2), seedling-strengthening agent was more conducive than compound fertilizer in improving the quality of machine-transplanted seedlings, the rational dose of compound fertilizer (N-P2O5-K2O) was 150 g x m(-2), seedlings should be machine-transplanted within 21 days after sowing, densely planting a fewer seedlings in each cluster could improve the individual and population quality of machine-transplanted rice, and applying 315 kg x hm(-2) of N and 6:4 of basal-tillering: heading fertilizer could obtain the highest rice yield. The marked increase of glumous flowers per unit area was the main cause of the increase of machine-transplanted rice yield.
17147174	A pot culture experiment was conducted to examine the interference effectiveness of allelopathic rice Huakangcao 78 on weeds Echinochloa crusgalli L., Cyperus difformis L., and Eclipta prostrata L. as affected by rice leaf age during transplanting, plant density, and soil surface water depth and its retaining days. The results showed that Huakangcao 78 could significantly reduce the dry weight of weeds compared with non-allelopathic rice Lemont. The control effectiveness of Huakangcao 78 on E. crusgalli L. was better when the weed was at 0-1.5 leaf age than at 1.5-2.4 leaf age, and that on C. difformis L. was better when the weed was at 0-0.3 leaf age than at 0.8-2.0 leaf age. The interactive effectiveness between rice leaf age during transplanting and plant density on weed control was better than that between the leaf age and soil surface water depth and its retaining days. To increase the rice leaf age during transplanting and plant density could significantly promote the control effectiveness of Huakangcao 78 on weeds.
17147604	Using stable transgenic rice plants, the promoters of 15 genes expressed in rice seed were analysed for their spatial and temporal expression pattern and their potential to promote the expression of recombinant proteins in seeds. The 15 genes included 10 seed storage protein genes and five genes for enzymes involved in carbohydrate and nitrogen metabolism. The promoters for the glutelins and the 13 kDa and 16 kDa prolamins directed endosperm-specific expression, especially in the outer portion (peripheral region) of the endosperm, whilst the embryo globulin and 18 kDa oleosin promoters directed expression in the embryo and aleurone layer. Fusion of the GUS gene to the 26 kDa globulin promoter resulted in expression in the inner starchy endosperm tissue. It should be noted that the 10 kDa prolamin gene was the only one tested that required both the 5' and 3' flanking regions for intrinsic endosperm-specific expression. The promoters from the pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK) and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) small subunit genes were active not only in the seed, but also in the phloem of vegetative tissues. Within the seed, the expression from these two promoters differed in that the PPDK gene was only expressed in the endosperm, whereas the AGPase small subunit gene was expressed throughout the seed. The GUS reporter gene fused to the alanine aminotransferase (AlaAT) promoter was expressed in the inner portion of the starchy endosperm, whilst the starch branching enzyme (SBE1) and the glutamate synthase (GOGAT) genes were mainly expressed in the scutellum (between the endosperm and embryo). When promoter activities were examined during seed maturation, the glutelin GluB-4, 26 kDa globulin and 10 kDa and 16 kDa prolamin promoters exhibited much higher activities than the others. The seed promoters analysed here exhibited a wide variety of activities and expression patterns, thus providing many choices suitable for various applications in plant biotechnology.
17147608	To minimize expression variability amongst transgenic lines, we have utilized the strategy of Cre/lox-mediated site-specific gene integration. This method allows the precise integration of a transgene in a lox site previously placed in the genome. Using the biolistic method for DNA delivery, we have generated several site-specific integrant lines, derived from three different target lines. About 80% of the selected lines contain precise integration of the gusA reporter gene and fall into two categories: single-copy (SC) lines that contain site-specific integration without additional random integrations, and multicopy (MC) lines that contain random integrations in addition to the site-specific integration. The expression of the gusA gene was studied in callus cells and regenerated plants. The isogenic SC lines displayed significantly lower expression variation, whereas much higher expression variation was observed in MC lines. Furthermore, stable inheritance of the gusA gene was observed in T1 plants derived from a subset of SC lines. This demonstrates that consistent gene expression can be obtained in rice by Cre-mediated site-specific integration.
17147623	When the starch branching enzyme IIb (BEIIb) gene was introduced into a BEIIb-defective mutant, the resulting transgenic rice plants showed a wide range of BEIIb activity and the fine structure of their amylopectins showed considerable variation despite having the two other BE isoforms, BEI and BEIIa, in their endosperm at the same levels as in the wild-type. The properties of the starch granules, such as their gelatinization behaviour, morphology and X-ray diffraction pattern, also changed dramatically depending on the level of BEIIb activity, even when this was either slightly lower or higher than that of the wild-type. The over-expression of BEIIb resulted in the accumulation of excessive branched, water-soluble polysaccharides instead of amylopectin. These results imply that the manipulation of BEIIb activity is an effective strategy for the generation of novel starches for use in foodstuffs and industrial applications.
17147636	Flavonoids, compounds that possess diverse health-promoting benefits, are lacking in the endosperm of rice. Therefore, to develop transgenic lines that produce flavonoids, we transformed a white rice cultivar, Oryza sativa japonica cv. Hwa-Young, with maize C1 and R-S regulatory genes. Expression of these transgenes was restricted to the endosperm using the promoter of a rice prolamin gene. The pericarp of the C1/R-S homozygous lines became dark brown in accordance with their maternal genotype, whereas the endosperm turned chalky, similar to the opaque kernel phenotype. Analysis via high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) revealed that numerous kinds of flavonoids were produced in these transgenic kernels. To identify individual flavonoids, the number of HPLC peaks was reduced through moderate acid hydrolysis, followed by ethyl acetate partitioning. Amongst the major flavonoids, dihydroquercetin (taxifolin), dihydroisorhamnetin (3'-O-methyl taxifolin) and 3'-O-methyl quercetin were identified through liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses. Fluorescence labelling with diphenylboric acid showed that the flavonoids were highly concentrated in the cells of four to five outer endosperm layers. More importantly, a high fluorescence signal was present in the cytosol of the inner endosperm layers. However, the overall signal in the inner layers was significantly lower because starch granules and protein bodies occupied most of the cytosolic space. Our estimate of the total flavonoid content in the transgenic kernels suggests that C1/R-S rice has the potential to be developed further as a novel variety that can produce various flavonoids in its endosperm.
17147638	Male and female sterile plants are particularly useful for the effective production of commercial hybrid plants and for preventing the diffusion of seeds or pollen grains of genetically modified plants in the open field. In an attempt to create several types of sterile plant by genetic manipulation, we applied our Chimeric REpressor Gene-Silencing Technology (CRES-T) to four transcription factors, namely APETALA3, AGAMOUS, LEAFY and AtMYB26, involved in the regulation of petal and stamen identity, stamen and carpel identity, floral meristem identity and anther dehiscence, respectively, in Arabidopsis. Transgenic plants expressing each chimeric repressor exhibited, at high frequency, a sterile phenotype that resembled the loss-of-function phenotype of each corresponding gene. Furthermore, in the monocotyledonous crop plant 'rice', expression of the chimeric repressor derived from SUPERWOMAN1, the rice orthologue of APETALA3, resulted in the male sterile phenotype with high efficiency. Our results indicate that CRES-T provides a powerful tool for controlling the fertility of both monocots and dicots by exploiting transcription factors that are strongly conserved amongst plants.
17147681	Cereal grains accumulate carbohydrates, storage proteins and fatty acids via different pathways during their development. Many genes that participate in nutrient partitioning during grain filling and that affect starch quality have been identified. To understand how the expression of these genes is coordinated during grain development, a genomic approach to surveying the participation and interactions of all the pathways is necessary. Using recently published rice genome information, we designed a rice GeneChip microarray that covers half the rice genome. By monitoring the expression of 21,000 genes in parallel, we identified genes involved in the grain filling process and found that the expression of genes involved in different pathways is coordinately controlled in a synchronized fashion during grain filling. Interestingly, a known promoter element in genes encoding seed storage proteins, AACA, is statistically over-represented among the 269 genes in different pathways with diverse functions that are significantly up-regulated during grain filling. By expression pattern matching, a group of transcription factors that have the potential to interact with this element was identified. We also found that most genes in the starch biosynthetic pathway show multiple distinct spatial and temporal expression patterns, suggesting that different isoforms of a given enzyme are expressed in different tissues and at different developmental stages. Our results reveal key regulatory machinery and provide an opportunity for modifying multiple pathways by manipulating key regulatory elements for improving grain quality and quantity.
17147745	Vitamin-A deficiency (VAD) is a major malnutrition problem in South Asia, where indica rice is the staple food. Indica-type rice varieties feed more than 2 billion people. Hence, we introduced a combination of transgenes using the biolistic system of transformation enabling biosynthesis of provitamin A in the endosperm of several indica rice cultivars adapted to diverse ecosystems of different countries. The rice seed-specific glutelin promoter (Gt-1 P) was used to drive the expression of phytoene synthase (psy), while lycopene beta-cyclase (lcy) and phytoene desaturase (crtI), fused to the transit peptide sequence of the pea-Rubisco small subunit, were driven by the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus promoter (CaMV35S P). Transgenic plants were recovered through selection with either CaMV35S P driven hph (hygromycin phosphotransferase) gene or cestrum yellow leaf curling virus promoter (CMP) driven pmi (phophomannose isomerase) gene. Molecular and biochemical analyses demonstrated stable integration and expression of the transgenes. The yellow colour of the polished rice grain evidenced the carotenoid accumulation in the endosperm. The colour intensity correlated with the estimated carotenoid content by spectrophotometric and HPLC analysis. Carotenoid level in cooked polished seeds was comparable (with minor loss of xanthophylls) to that in non-cooked seeds of the same transgenic line. The variable segregation pattern in T1 selfing generation indicated single to multiple loci insertion of the transgenes in the genome. This is the first report of using nonantibiotic pmi driven by a novel promoter in generating transgenic indica rice for possible future use in human nutrition.
17148693	Two novel nuclear genes, OsSIG5 and OsSIG6, encoding potential plastid sigma factors of RNA polymerase (RNAP) were identified in Oryza sativa. The deduced amino acid sequences contain conserved regions, regions 1.2-4.2, and a novel region A/B at the N-terminus. Tissue-specific and light-responsive transcripts of OsSIG5 and OsSIG6 were observed. The N-terminal region of OsSig5 conferred import of green fluorescent protein into the chloroplast. Specific transcripts of rice psbA were synthesized in vitro by reconstituted OsSig5-RNAP holoenzymes. These results indicated that OsSig5 is a plastid sigma factor. This is the first report of the Sig5-type sigma factor in crops.
17148785	Plant growth is regulated by an intricate network of hormonal signaling pathways. These small-molecule hormones cause changes in gene expression that are associated with cell expansion and division and changes in development. Paradoxically, six of these hormones appear to have largely overlapping functions, yet the loss of response to any one hormone cannot be compensated by the action of another plant hormone. Among these hormones are the brassinosteroids (BRs), the polyhydroxylated steroid hormones of plants. The emerging picture of BR signal transduction diverges radically from the paradigms of animal steroid signaling, which generally involve the action of members of the nuclear receptor superfamily. BRs bind the extracellular domain of a small family of leucine-rich-repeat receptor kinases to activate intracellular signal transduction cascades that regulate the expression of hundreds of genes. The signaling pathway involves a cell surface receptor complex, a glycogen synthase kinase 3, a kelch-containing serine/threonine phosphatase, and a novel family of basic helix-loop-helix and Myc-like plant specific transcription factors. The receptor and each of the signaling components were identified in Arabidopsis thaliana, and knowledge of their sequences allowed identification of orthologs in rice, tomato, barley, and pea.
17150265	The assessment of the biological effects on aquatic vertebrate species is frequently employed to monitor water pollution, as it provides significant information on bioavailability and actual concentration levels. In anamniote vertebrates (fish and amphibians), significant correlations have been observed between exposure to contaminants - both natural and experimental - and blood modification. We investigated the changes in some circulating blood cell parameters of green frog (Rana snk esculenta) tadpoles and adults collected at two sample rice fields, one heavily polluted and the other relatively unpolluted. The frequency of eosinophilic leucocytes, mitotic, anucleated and micronucleated erythrocytes was evaluated also regarding the haemopoietic/haemocatheretic and NOS expression of the liver. Haematological indicators in polluted samples were found to be significantly different from controls as regards both larval and adult exposure, and provided information on long-term background pollution of the habitats under investigation. The population of the polluted area showed evident effects of chronic exposure to contaminants, to a degree which could lead to sub-lethal alterations of their health status. The general nature of responses to this kind of stress emphasizes the role of amphibian peripheral blood as a sensitive indicator regarding contamination in aquatic environments.
17150762	Wheat embryos have an RNA ligase activity that catalyses ligation of RNA molecules between the 5'-hydroxyl and 2',3'-cyclic phosphate termini. In contrast to yeast tRNA ligase, which ligates tRNA half molecules specifically, the wheat enzyme acts on various RNA substrates. It has been suggested that RNA ligase plays some unknown roles in vivo other than the maturation of tRNA. Here, we report purification of the enzyme and determination of the protease-digested peptide sequences. The sequences showed homologies to three database cDNA clones from Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana.
17153882	Hydrolyzed formulas used to feed infants with cow's milk-allergy can be classified as soy based, extensively hydrolyzed (casein, whey and mixed), and amino-acid based. Their unsatisfactory taste is reported by parents and physicians. The aim of this study was to ascertain the palatability of these formulas in a double-blind taste test. Fifty healthy volunteers performed a randomized-order double-blind test with 12 different milks. The taste, smell, smell, and texture of each formula were evaluated o n scales ranging from 1 (worst) t o 5 (best). The Pearson correlation coefficient between the peptide weight of each formula and the score obtained for each evaluated attribute was calculated. The soy formulas and rice formula had the best taste scores, followed by the whey hydrolysates; the mixed hydrolysates and the casein hydrolysates had the lowest taste scores. Individually the most palatable formula was mixed hydrolysate 1, by total score. We found a statistically significant correlation between peptide weight, reflecting the degree of hydrolysis of each formula, and the scores obtained for taste, texture, and overall palatability. The palatability of formulas is determined by the amount of bitter peptides obtained through hydrolysis. Flavorings and sweeteners may also contribute to palatability. Further studies are needed in order to determine how to modify the organoleptic properties of these products with the purpose of improving their palatability.
17153925	Pseudomonas aeruginosa 7NSK2 induces resistance in dicots through a synergistic interaction of the phenazine pyocyanin and the salicylic acid-derivative pyochelin. Root inoculation of the monocot model rice with 7NSK2 partially protected leaves against blast disease (Magnaporthe grisea) but failed to consistently reduce sheath blight (Rhizoctonia solani). Only mutations interfering with pyocyanin production led to a significant decrease in induced systemic resistance (ISR) to M. grisea, and in trans complementation for pyocyanin production restored the ability to elicit ISR. Intriguingly, pyocyanin-deficient mutants, unlike the wild type, triggered ISR against R. solani. Hence, bacterial pyocyanin plays a differential role in 7NSK2-mediated ISR in rice. Application of purified pyocyanin to hydroponically grown rice seedlings increased H202 levels locally on the root surface as well as a biphasic H202 generation pattern in distal leaves. Co-application of pyocyanin and the antioxidant sodium ascorbate alleviated the opposite effects of pyocyanin on rice blast and sheath blight development, suggesting that the differential effectiveness of pyocyanin with respect to 7NSK2-triggered ISR is mediated by transiently elevated H202 levels in planta. The cumulative results suggest that reactive oxygen species act as a double-edged sword in the interaction of rice with the hemibiotroph M. grisea and the necrotroph R. solani.
17154060
17155641	Structural transformations around both V and Cr atoms in (V1-xCrx)2O3 across its metal-insulator transition (MIT) at x approximately 0.01 are studied by extended x-ray absorption fine-structure technique. Our new results for Cr made possible by the use of a novel x-ray analyzer that we developed reveal the substitutional mechanism of Cr doping. We find that this system has a buckled structure with short Cr-V and long V-V bonds. This system of bonds is disordered around the average trigonal lattice ascertained by x-ray diffraction. Such local distortions can result in a long range strain field that sets in around dilute Cr atoms in microscopic regions. We suggest that such locally strained regions should be insulating even at small x. The possibility of local insulating regions within a metallic phase, first suggested by Rice and Brinkman in 1972, remains unaccounted for in modern MIT theories.
17156029	In this study, we have demonstrated that two independent loci are involved in the integration of the insecticidal protein gene cryIAb/cryIAc and selectable marker gene hph in the recipient genome of the elite Chinese CMS restorer line Minghui 63. We have also documented the structural organization of these transgenes in each locus by restriction enzyme digestion and Southern blot analysis. The independent locus integration of different transgenes allowed us to remove the selectable marker gene hph from the gene of interest simply by self-segregation. Not having the selectable marker gene will enhance the commercial value of our transgenic line TT51-1, which showed a consistently high level of resistance against repeated infestations of yellow stem borers and natural outbreaks of leaf-folders, without a reduction in yield potential.
17156031	The world's major crops are deficient in lysine and several other amino acids essential for human and animal nutrition. Increasing the content of these amino acids in cereals, our major source of dietary energy, can help feed a global population whose reliance upon dietary protein is growing faster than crop yields. Here we document the heritable expression in rice, the world's major cereal crop, of tRNA(lys) species that introduce lysine at alternative codons during protein synthesis, resulting in a significant enrichment of the lysine content of proteins in rice seeds without changing the types or quantities of the seed storage proteins.
17156035	Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation has been optimized in indica rice susceptible to sap-sucking insects, viz., brown planthopper (BPH) and green leafhopper (GLH). Snowdrop lectin gene (gna) from Galanthus nivalis, driven by phloem-specific rice-sucrose-synthase promoter, along with herbicide resistance gene (bar) driven by CaMV 35S promoter, was employed for genetic transformation. Embryogenic calli--after co-cultivation with Agrobacterium strain LBA4404 harbouring Ti plasmid pSB111-bar-gna--were selected on the medium containing phosphinothricin. PCR and Southern blot analyses confirmed the stable integration of both the genes into genomes of transgenic (T0) rice plants. Northern and Western blot analyses revealed the expression of gna in the transgenic plants. In the T1 and T2 generations, the gna and bar transgenes showed co-segregation at a ratio of 3 : 1. Plant progenies expressing gna, in T1 and T2, exhibited substantial resistance against BPH and GLH pests. This is the first report dealing with transgenic indica rice exhibiting high resistance to both insects.
17156450	Rice blast, caused by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, is a devastating disease causing tremendous yield loss in rice production. The public availability of the complete genome sequence of M. grisea provides ample opportunities to understand the molecular mechanism of its pathogenesis on rice plants at the transcriptome level. To identify all the expressed genes encoded in the fungal genome, we have analyzed the mycelium and appressorium transcriptomes using massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS), robust-long serial analysis of gene expression (RL-SAGE) and oligoarray methods. The MPSS analyses identified 12,531 and 12,927 distinct significant tags from mycelia and appressoria, respectively, while the RL-SAGE analysis identified 16,580 distinct significant tags from the mycelial library. When matching these 12,531 mycelial and 12,927 appressorial significant tags to the annotated CDS, 500 bp upstream and 500 bp downstream of CDS, 6,735 unique genes in mycelia and 7,686 unique genes in appressoria were identified. A total of 7,135 mycelium-specific and 7,531 appressorium-specific significant MPSS tags were identified, which correspond to 2,088 and 1,784 annotated genes, respectively, when matching to the same set of reference sequences. Nearly 85% of the significant MPSS tags from mycelia and appressoria and 65% of the significant tags from the RL-SAGE mycelium library matched to the M. grisea genome. MPSS and RL-SAGE methods supported the expression of more than 9,000 genes, representing over 80% of the predicted genes in M. grisea. About 40% of the MPSS tags and 55% of the RL-SAGE tags represent novel transcripts since they had no matches in the existing M. grisea EST collections. Over 19% of the annotated genes were found to produce both sense and antisense tags in the protein-coding region. The oligoarray analysis identified the expression of 3,793 mycelium-specific and 4,652 appressorium-specific genes. A total of 2,430 mycelial genes and 1,886 appressorial genes were identified by both MPSS and oligoarray. The comprehensive and deep transcriptome analysis by MPSS and RL-SAGE methods identified many novel sense and antisense transcripts in the M. grisea genome at two important growth stages. The differentially expressed transcripts that were identified, especially those specifically expressed in appressoria, represent a genomic resource useful for gaining a better understanding of the molecular basis of M. grisea pathogenicity. Further analysis of the novel antisense transcripts will provide new insights into the regulation and function of these genes in fungal growth, development and pathogenesis in the host plants.
17156966	Cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450s) metabolize herbicides to produce mainly non-phytotoxic metabolites. Although rice plants endogenously express multiple P450 enzymes, transgenic plants expressing other P450 isoforms might show improved herbicide resistance or reduce herbicide residues. Mammalian P450s metabolizing xenobiotics are reported to show a broad and overlapping substrate specificity towards lipophilic foreign chemicals, including herbicides. These P450s are ideal for enhancing xenobiotic metabolism in plants. A human P450, CYP1A1, metabolizes various herbicides with different structures and modes of herbicide action. We introduced human CYP1A1 into rice plants, and the transgenic rice plants showed broad cross-resistance towards various herbicides and metabolized them. The introduced CYP1A1 enhanced the metabolism of chlorotoluron and norflurazon. The herbicides were metabolized more rapidly in the transgenic rice plants than in non-transgenic controls. Transgenic rice plants expressing P450 might be useful for reducing concentrations of various chemicals in the environment.
17157454	Utility of carboxylesterase and acetylcholinesterase inhibition as pesticide exposure biomarker was studied at Doana National Park (SW Spain) in crayfish (Procambarus clarkii). Activities were measured in animals from reference sites or potentially exposed to pesticides, and their reactivation studied after dilution or 2-PAM treatment. Crayfish from affected sites had significantly less carboxylesterase and acetylcholinesterase activity than reference ones. No significant differences were found after dilution or 2-PAM treatment, showing that inhibition was irreversible. High pesticide levels were found in water and/or soil at rice growing sites, and lower levels at other affected places. High metal levels existed at rice growing sites and lower at other affected and at both reference sites. A combined effect on esterase inhibition of pesticides and metals is proposed. This field study suggest that the rice growing areas near Guadiamar stream are most polluted, followed by strawberry and citrics growing zones near Partido and Rocina streams. However, no correlation exist between the pesticide concentration at different sites and the extent of esterase inhibition, indicating that other factors could affect esterase response of animals from polluted sites.
17157544	In addition to their plant-associated functions, flavonoids act as antioxidants against harmful free radicals in animals. Genetic engineering of food crops for a mix of antioxidant flavonoids is highly beneficial in promoting human health. Anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) is one of the four dioxygenases (DOX) of the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway that catalyzes the formation of anthocyanidins from leucoanthocyanidins. To investigate whether ANS mediates different DOX reactions of the pathway and produces a mix of flavonoids, the rice ANS cDNA was cloned and overexpressed in a rice mutant Nootripathu (NP). This mutant accumulates proanthocyanidins exclusively in pericarp and absolutely no anthocyanins in any tissue. In silico sequence analysis revealed that ANS contains a double-stranded beta helix and shows high sequence similarity with other DOXs of the pathway including flavonol synthase, flavonone 3beta-hydroxylase and flavone synthase I. Bacterially expressed ANS protein converted dihydroquercetin to quercetin and Pro(35S):ANS complemented the maize a2 mutant in producing anthocyanins in aleurone, suggesting that ANS functions as a DOX with different flavonoid substrates. Similarly, transgenic NP plants overexpressing Pro(MAS):ANS channeled the proanthocaynidin precursors to the production of anthocyanins in pericarp. Transgenics showed approximately ten and four-fold increase in the ANS transcripts and enzyme activity, respectively. As a result, these plants showed an increased accumulation of a mixture of flavonoids and anthocyanins, with a concomitant decrease in proanthocyanidins, suggesting that ANS may act directly on different flavonoid substrates of DOX reactions. Thus, overexpression of ANS in a rice mutant resulted in novel transgenic rice with a mixture of flavonoids and an enhanced antioxidant potential.
17158162	Controlled proteolytic cleavage of membrane-associated transcription factors (MTFs) is an intriguing activation strategy that ensures rapid transcriptional responses to incoming stimuli. Several MTFs are known to regulate diverse cellular functions in prokaryotes, yeast, and animals. In Arabidopsis, a few NAC MTFs mediate either cytokinin signaling during cell division or endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress responses. Through genome-wide analysis, it was found that at least 13 members of the NAC family in Arabidopsis contain strong alpha-helical transmembrane motifs (TMs) in their C-terminal regions and are predicted to be membrane-associated. Interestingly, most of the putative NAC MTF genes are up-regulated by stress conditions, suggesting that they may be involved in stress responses. Notably, transgenic studies revealed that membrane release is essential for the function of NAC MTFs. Transgenic plants overexpressing partial-size NAC constructs devoid of the TMs, but not those overexpressing full-size constructs, showed distinct phenotypic changes, including dwarfed growth and delayed flowering. The rice genome also contains more than six NAC MTFs. Furthermore, the presence of numerous MTFs is predicted in the whole transcription factors in plants. We thus propose that proteolytic activation of MTFs is a genome-wide mechanism regulating plant genomes.
17158795	Previous studies have found that atmospheric brown clouds partially offset the warming effects of greenhouse gases. This finding suggests a tradeoff between the impacts of reducing emissions of aerosols and greenhouse gases. Results from a statistical model of historical rice harvests in India, coupled with regional climate scenarios from a parallel climate model, indicate that joint reductions in brown clouds and greenhouse gases would in fact have complementary, positive impacts on harvests. The results also imply that adverse climate changes due to brown clouds and greenhouse gases contributed to the slowdown in harvest growth that occurred during the past two decades.
17159205	Pseudomonas stutzeri strain A1501 isolated from rice fixes nitrogen under microaerobic conditions in the free-living state. This paper describes the properties of nifL and nifA mutants as well as the physical interaction between NifL and NifA proteins. A nifL mutant strain that carried a mutation non-polar on nifA expression retained nitrogenase activity. Complementation with a plasmid containing only nifL led to a decrease in nitrogenase activity in both the wild-type and the nifL mutant, suggesting that NifL acts as an antiactivator of NifA activity. Using the yeast two-hybrid system and purified protein domains of NifA and NifL, an interaction was shown between the C-terminal domain of NifL and the central domain of NifA, suggesting that NifL antiactivator activity is mediated by direct protein interaction with NifA.
17159236	Single-stage direct bioconversion of cellulosic materials to citric acid using intergeneric hybrids obtained from three different Trichoderma species and Aspergillus niger was carried out. The recent results were obtained on the basis of either resistance or sensitivity to one or more of five metal ions, two catabolite repressors, and five antifungal agents, which were used in this study at different concentrations. Sixty-six fusants were isolated after using the three intergeneric protoplast fusion experiments, belonging to two types of intergeneric fusants. Fusants of the first type are heterokaryons (35 fusants). On the other hand, those of the second type are haploids (31 fusants), i.e., they were stable. The present study can be successfully applied in the construction of 14 new genetic fusants, which produced at least 100% more citric acid than the citric acid producer strain A. niger. Out of the fusants, three (1/18, 2/13 and 2/15) showed about a threefold increase of citric acid production in comparison with the parent A. niger strain. Furthermore, studies on DNA content showed that this finding may be submitted on the evidence that citric acid and cellulases production was not correlated with DNA content; however, the productivity depends on specific DNA content.
1715972	Exposure of normal, tall rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings to 5-azacytidine, a powerful inhibitor of DNA methylation in vivo, induced both demethylation of genomic DNA and dwarf plants. Genes that had been affected by treatment were identified by differential screening of a cDNA library, and a ras-related gene, rgp1, was subsequently isolated. The cDNA of rgp1 was found to encode a deduced protein sequence of 226 amino acids with a relative molecular mass of 24850, which was most closely related to the ras-related ypt3 protein of fission yeast, Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The rgp1 protein, expressed in transformed Escherichia coli, clearly showed GTP-binding activity. During seedling rgp1 expression was first observed 14 days after germination, reaching a maximum level between 28 and 42 days, and gradually decreased thereafter until 63 days when it attained the same level of expression as in 14-day-old seedlings. Expression of rgp1 was found to be markedly reduced throughout the growth period of both 5-azacytidine-induced dwarf plants and their progenies, relative to levels in untreated tall control plants. These results suggest that expression of rgp1 may be influenced, either directly or indirectly, by DNA methylation, and that the rgp1 protein may play an important role in plant growth and development.
1715976	In order to analyze expression of the maize alcohol dehydrogenase 1 gene (Adh1), its promoter was fused with the gusA reporter gene and introduced into rice by protoplast transformation. Histochemical analysis of transgenic plants and their progeny showed that the maize Adh1 promoter is constitutively expressed in root caps, anthers, anther filaments, pollen, scutellum, endosperm and shoot and root meristem of the embryo. Induction of expression by the Adh1 promoter was examined using seedlings derived from selfed progeny of the transgenic plants. The results showed that expression of the Adh1 promoter was strongly induced (up to 81-fold) in roots of seedlings after 24 h of anaerobic treatment, concomitant with an increase in the level of gusA mRNA. 2,4-D also induced Adh1 promoter-directed expression of gusA to a similar extent. In contrast, little induction by anaerobic treatment was detected in transformed calli, leaves or roots of primary transformants or shoots of seedlings. A detailed examination of seedling roots during anaerobic treatment revealed that the induction started first at the meristem and after 3 h there was strong induction in the elongation zone which is located 1-2 mm above the meristem; the induction then progressed upward from this region. Our results suggest that transgenic rice plants carrying the gusA reporter gene fused with promoters are useful for the study of anaerobic regulation of genes derived from graminaceous species.
17160619	Rice yield is most sensitive to salinity stress imposed during the panicle initiation (PI) stage. In this study, we have focused on physiological and transcriptional responses of four rice genotypes exposed to salinity stress during PI. The genotypes selected included a pair of indicas (IR63731 and IR29) and a pair of japonica (Agami and M103) rice subspecies with contrasting salt tolerance. Physiological characterization showed that tolerant genotypes maintained a much lower shoot Na+ concentration relative to sensitive genotypes under salinity stress. Global gene expression analysis revealed a strikingly large number of genes which are induced by salinity stress in sensitive genotypes, IR29 and M103 relative to tolerant lines. We found 19 probe sets to be commonly induced in all four genotypes. We found several salinity modulated, ion homeostasis related genes from our analysis. We also studied the expression of SKC1, a cation transporter reported by others as a major source of variation in salt tolerance in rice. The transcript abundance of SKC1 did not change in response to salinity stress at PI stage in the shoot tissue of all four genotypes. However, we found the transcript abundance of SKC1 to be significantly higher in tolerant japonica Agami relative to sensitive japonica M103 under control and stressed conditions during PI stage.
17160635	Red algae are widely known to produce floridean starch but it remains unclear whether the molecular structure of this algal polyglucan is distinct from that of the starch synthesized by vascular plants and green algae. The present study shows that the unicellular species Porphyridium purpureum R-1 (order Porphyridiales, class Bangiophyceae) produces both amylopectin-type and amylose-type alpha-polyglucans. In contrast, Cyanidium caldarium (order Porphyridiales, class Bangiophyceae) synthesizes glycogen-type polyglucan, but not amylose. Detailed analysis of alpha-1,4-chain length distribution of P. purpureum polyglucan suggests that the branched polyglucan has a less ordered structure, referred to as semi-amylopectin, as compared with amylopectin of rice endosperm having a tandem-cluster structure. The P. purpureum linear amylose-type polyglucan, which has a lambda(max) of 630 nm typical of amylose-iodine complex and is resistant to Pseudomonas isoamylase digestion, accounts for less than 10% of the total polyglucans. We produced and isolated a cDNA encoding a granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS)-type protein of P. purpureum, which is probably the approximately 60-kDa protein bound tightly to the starch granules, resembling the amylose-synthesizing GBSS protein of green plants. The present investigation indicates that the class Bangiophyceae includes species producing both semi-amylopectin and amylose, and species producing glycogen alone.
17161599	Oyster mushroom, Pleurotus ostreatus (Jacq.:Fr.) Kumm. ITCC 3308 (collected from Indian Type Culture Collection, IARI, New Delhi, India, 110012) was grown on dry weed plants, Leonotis sp, Sida acuta, Parthenium argentatum, Ageratum conyzoides, Cassia sophera, Tephrosia purpurea and Lantana camara. Leonotis sp. was the best substrate in fruit body production of P. ostreatus when it was mixed with rice straw (1:1, wet wt/wet wt) for mushroom cultivation. The fruiting time for P. ostreatus was also less on Leonotis sp. than on any other weed substrates tested in the present investigation. T. purpurea was the least suited weed for oyster mushroom cultivation. The main problem of oyster mushroom cultivation on weed substrates was found to be low yield in the second flush that could be overcome by blending weed plants with rice straw. The protein contents of the fruit bodies obtained from Cassia sophera, Parthenium argentatum and Leonotis sp. were not only better than rice straw but also from the rice straw supplemented weeds.
17162322	The study was initiated to identify the effects of recent changes in dietary pattern in Japan on nutrient intake. In the large city of Osaka, Japan, 24-h food duplicate samples were collected from 26 middle-aged women, and nutrients in the duplicates were estimated in reference to standard tables of food composition. The subjects took 1844 kcal (7.72 MJ) energy, 67.5 g protein, and 54.5 g lipid (37% from plants) per day. Micro-nutrient intakes were generally sufficient, but NaCl intake tended to be excessive, and the relatively high body mass index (>25 in six cases) suggested a possibility of over-eating. The food composition was rich in rice and fish, being basically of a traditional type. Consumption of bread, an acquired habit, was observed in 65% of the breakfasts but less so in lunch and none in dinner. Thus, the acceptance of bread in place of rice was limited and did not induce substantial alteration in nutrient intakes.
17162325	Standardized techniques are still needed to characterize the consistency of gruels for infants in developing countries. The aim of this study was to evaluate the interest of the use of the Bostwick consistometer. Bostwick flow was measured on gruels prepared with different flours, at low or high energy density (i.e. without or with amylase). The range of Bostwick flow, from 0 to 240 mm/30 sec, adequately described a wide range of gruel consistencies from completely liquid to almost solid. However, the temperature of the gruel must be carefully controlled during measurements as Bostwick flow is highly temperature dependent, especially in the case of gruels with high energy density. The relationship between Bostwick flow and apparent viscosity proved to depend on the type of gruel: at an apparent viscosity of 1 Pa.sec, gruels prepared from maize, rice, millet or multicomponent flours had different Bostwick flow values of, respectively, 20, 35, 75 and 55 mm/30 sec. Sensory analysis was then performed with a panel of mothers of infants and young children in Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso). Gruels of similar apparent viscosity and different Bostwick flow distances or of inversely similar Bostwick flow distances and different apparent viscosities were prepared by adding carob seed flour, and differentiation and ranking tests were then carried out. Both types of test revealed that mothers differentiated similar gruels having different Bostwick flow distances more easily than gruels having different apparent viscosities. It can thus be concluded that Bostwick flow, which is an empirical multi-criteria parameter, conveys the sensory perception of gruel consistency better than apparent viscosity.
17162330	Phytate, a salt of phytic acid (myo-inositol 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexakisphosphate), is found in certain plant-based foods. It strongly chelates minerals, forming insoluble complexes in the small intestine that cannot be digested or absorbed. Information on the phytate content of rice-based diets of children in Northeast Thailand is limited. In this study 1-day weighed duplicate diet composites were collected from 40 Northeast Thai children (age 6-13 years) randomly selected from participants (n=567) of an efficacy trial in Ubon Ratchathani province. Diet composites were analyzed for zinc, iron, and calcium by atomic absorption spectrophotometry, and for phytate (as inositol penta-phosphate and hexa-phosphate) by high-performance liquid chromatography; the accuracy and precision were established using a certified reference material for the minerals and an inter-laboratory comparison for phytate. The median (1st, 3rd quartiles) zinc, iron, and calcium contents of the diet composites were 4.3 (3.7, 6.1), 4.3 (3.2, 6.5) and 130 (82, 216) mg/day, respectively. The inositol penta-phosphate and hexa-phosphate levels were so low they were below the detection limit, attributed in part to leaching of water-soluble potassium and magnesium phytate from glutinous rice after soaking overnight before cooking. Clearly, phytate will not compromise mineral absorption from these diets. Instead, low zinc intakes are probably primarily responsible for the low zinc status of these children. In contrast, although intakes of dietary iron appear low, the prevalence of biochemical iron deficiency was also low, suggesting that iron absorption may have been higher than previously assumed. Whether the low calcium intakes compromise optimal bone health in these growing Northeast Thai school children is unknown.
17163441	Rice (Oryza sativa) is most sensitive to salinity during the reproductive stage. We employed a proteomic approach to further understand the mechanism of plant responses to salinity at an early reproductive stage. Plants were grown in culture solution and salt stress imposed at panicle initiation. After 12 days of stress, young panicles were collected from control and salt stressed plants. The Na+ and K+ content of panicle and several yield components changed significantly in response to short-term salt stress. The collected panicles were sorted into three different sizes (7 +/- 1, 11 +/- 1, and 15 +/- 1 mm) and their proteome patterns were analyzed using 2-DE in triplicates. The expression pattern of 13 proteins significantly changed in all panicle sizes in response to stress. MS analysis of salt responsive proteins and 16 other highly abundant proteins of panicle led to the identification of proteins involved in several salt responsive mechanisms which may increase plant adaptation to salt stress including higher constitutive expression level and up-regulation of antioxidants, up-regulation of proteins involved in translation, transcription, signal transduction, and ATP generation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first proteome analysis of plant young panicle which may enhance our understanding of plant molecular responses to salinity. Proteome reference map of rice young panicle is available at http://www.proteome.ir.
17163879	Different colors, such as purple, brown, red and white, occur in the pericarp of rice. Here, two genes affecting proanthocyanidin synthesis in red- and brown-colored rice were elucidated. Genetic segregation analysis suggested that the Rd and A loci are identical, and both encode dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR). The introduction of the DFR gene into an Rcrd mutant resulted in red-colored rice, which was brown in the original mutant, demonstrating that the Rd locus encodes the DFR protein. Accumulation of proanthocyanidins was observed in the transformants by the introduction of the Rd gene into the rice Rcrd line. Protein blot analysis showed that the DFR gene was translated in seeds with alternative translation initiation. A search for the Rc gene, which encodes a transacting regulatory factor, was conducted using available DNA markers and the Rice Genome Automated Annotation System program. Three candidate genes were identified and cloned from a rice RcRd line and subsequently introduced into a rice rcrd line. Brown-colored seeds were obtained from transgenic plants by the introduction of a gene containing the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) motif, demonstrating that the Rc gene encodes a bHLH protein. Comparison of the Rc locus among rice accessions showed that a 14-bp deletion occurred only in the rc locus.
17163904	We have compiled two comprehensive gene expression profiles from mature leaf and immature seed tissue of rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cultivar Nipponbare) using Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE) technology. Analysis revealed a total of 50 519 SAGE tags, corresponding to 15 131 unique transcripts. Of these, the large majority (approximately 70%) occur only once in both libraries. Unexpectedly, the most abundant transcript (approximately 3% of the total) in the leaf library was derived from a type 3 metallothionein gene. The overall frequency profiles of the abundant tag species from both tissues differ greatly and reveal seed tissue as exhibiting a non-typical pattern of gene expression characterized by an over abundance of a small number of transcripts coding for storage proteins. A high proportion (approximately 80%) of the abundant tags (> or = 9) matched entries in our reference rice EST database, with many fewer matches for low abundant tags. Singleton transcripts that are common to both tissues were collated to generate a summary of low abundant transcripts that are expressed constitutively in rice tissues. Finally and most surprisingly, a significant number of tags were found to code for antisense transcripts, a finding that suggests a novel mechanism of gene regulation, and may have implications for the use of antisense constructs in transgenic technology.
17164256	ATP-binding cassette (ABC) proteins constitute a large family in plants with more than 120 members each in Arabidopsis and rice, and have various functions including the transport of auxin and alkaloid, as well as the regulation of stomata movement. In this report, we carried out genome-wide analysis of ABC protein genes in a model legume plant, Lotus japonicus. For analysis of the Lotus genome sequence, we devised a new method 'domain-based clustering analysis', where domain structures like the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD) and transmembrane domain (TMD), instead of full-length amino acid sequences, are used to compare phylogenetically each other. This method enabled us to characterize fragments of ABC proteins, which frequently appear in a draft sequence of the Lotus genome. We identified 91 putative ABC proteins in L. japonicus, i.e. 43 'full-size', 40 'half-size' and 18 'soluble' putative ABC proteins. The characteristic feature of the composition is that Lotus has extraordinarily many paralogs similar to AtMRP14 and AtPDR12, which are at least six and five members, respectively. Expression analysis of the latter genes performed with real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR revealed their putative involvement in the nodulation process.
17164257
17165607	Studies were undertaken on the viability of the metacercariae of Fasciola gigantica when stored in water at 13 degrees C for periods up to 23 weeks, exposed to the sunlight for up to 8 h or stored at a range of temperatures and humidities for up to 10 weeks. Excysted metacercariae were catergorized microscopically as viable (motile and undamaged), dubious (not motile and undamaged) or dead (visible necrosis). The infectivity of viable and dubious metacercariae and unselected reference metacercariae held in water at 7 degrees C for 20 days or longer was assessed by comparing numbers of flukes recovered from infected Merino sheep. Mean recovery rates were 54.6%, 7.2% and 37.2%, respectively, for viable, dubious and unselected metacercariae. Metacercariae immersed in water remained viable longer than those allowed to desiccate. Viability was promoted by decreasing temperature and increasing humidity. Exposure to direct sunlight killed metacercariae within 8 h. Results indicated that in lowland Indonesian irrigated rice paddies, metacercariae immersed in water are likely to survive for less than 5 weeks while those that become desiccated will survive less than 2 weeks. This information, together with the option of exposing fresh rice stalks to direct sunlight before feeding them to livestock, can assist farmers in reducing infection with F gigantica.
17165608	Eggs of F. gigantica were placed in dung heaps that were located in the shade or exposed to sun light, and examined at intervals for up to 14 weeks. The rate and extent of decline in viability of eggs was greater in dung exposed to sun light than in shaded dung. This difference was attributed the higher temperature in dung in sun light, owing to the effect of direct sunlight and to a higher rate of fermentation in exposed than in shaded dung. It was concluded that strategies for storing dung that would reduce the risk it poses for infecting L. rubiginosa with F. gigantica when used as fertilizer in rice fields include storing dung in sun light rather than in the shade, preferably in a thin layer to allow sunlight to heat and desiccate it, and mixing a carbohydrate with the stored dung to increase heat through fermentation.
17166135	In a screen for MADS box genes which activate and/or repress flowering in rice, we identified a gene encoding a MADS domain protein (OsSOC1) related to the Arabidopsis gene AtSOC1. AtSOC1 and OsSOC1 show a 97% amino acid similarity in their MADS domain. The rice gene contains a large first intron of 27.6 kb compared to the 1 kb intron in Arabidopsis. OsSOC1 is located on top of the short arm of chromosome 3, tightly linked to the heading date locus, Hd9. OsSOC1 is expressed in vegetative tissues, and expression is elevated at the time of floral initiation, 40-50 days after sowing, and remains uniformly high thereafter, similar to the expression pattern of AtSOC1. The constitutive expression of OsSOC1 in Arabidopsis results in early flowering, suggesting that the rice gene is a functional equivalent of AtSOC1. We were not able to identify FLC-like sequences in the rice genome; however, we show that ectopic expression of the Arabidopsis FLC delays flowering in rice, and the up-regulation of OsSOC1 at the onset of flowering initiation is delayed in the AtFLC transgenic lines. The reciprocal recognition and flowering time effects of genes introduced into either Arabidopsis or rice suggest that some components of the flowering pathways may be shared. This points to a potential application in the manipulation of flowering time in cereals using well characterized Arabidopsis genes.
17166136	Mitochondria of cytoplasmic male sterile crop plants contain novel, chimeric open reading frames. In addition, a number of crops carry endogenous double-stranded ribonucleic acid (dsRNA). In this study, the novel proteins encoded by these genetic components were screened for the presence of potential binding sites (epitopes) of allergy-associated IgE antibodies, as was previously done with transgenic proteins from genetically modified crops. The procedure entails the identification of stretches of at least six contiguous amino acids that are shared by novel proteins and known allergenic proteins. These stretches are further checked for potential linear IgE-binding epitopes. Of the 16 novel protein sequences screened in this study, nine contained stretches of six or seven amino acids that were also present in allergenic proteins. Four cases of similarity are of special interest, given the predicted antigenicity of the identical stretch within the allergenic and novel protein, the IgE-binding by a peptide containing an identical stretch reported in literature, or the multiple incidence of identical stretches of the same allergen within a novel protein. These selected stretches are present in novel proteins derived from oilseed rape and radish (ORF138), rice (dsRNA), and fava bean (dsRNA), and warrant further clinical testing. The frequency of positive outcomes and the sizes of the identical stretches were comparable to those previously found for transgenic proteins in genetically modified crops. It is discussed whether novel proteins from conventional crops should be subject to an assessment of potential allergenicity, a procedure which is currently mandatory for transgenic proteins from genetically modified crops.
17166139	Matrix Attachment Regions (MARs) are DNA elements that are thought to influence gene expression by anchoring active chromatin domains to the nuclear matrix. When flanking a construct in transgenic plants, MARs could be useful for enhancing transgene expression. Naturally occurring MARs have a number of sequence features and DNA elements in common, and using different subsets of these sequence elements, three independent synthetic MARs were created. Although short, these MARs were able to bind nuclear scaffold preparations with an affinity equal to or greater than naturally occurring plant MARs. One synthetic MAR was extensively tested for its effect on transgene expression, using different MAR orientations, plant promoters, transformation methods and plant species. This MAR was able to increase average transgene expression and produced integration patterns of lower complexity. These data show the potential of making well defined synthetic MARs and using them to improve transgene expression.
17166228	To study the possibility of utilizing genetically engineered Leifsonia xyli subsp. cynodontis (Lxc) as an endophytic bacterium in rice, we constructed an Escherichia coli-Lxc shuttle vector, pLGUS, containing a beta-glucuronidase reporter gene, which was stable both in vitro and in vivo. Lxc grows and expresses the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene in all parts of rice, except for seed. A 2-year field study using three rice varieties from China showed that Lxc inoculation did not have a negative effect on the growth and yield of any of these varieties. Therefore, Lxc has the potential to be used as a benign endophyte for the expression of foreign genes in rice.
17166555	The disposal of fly-ash (FA) from coal-fired power stations causes significant economic and environmental problems. Use of such contaminated sites for crop production and use of contaminated water for irrigation not only decreases crop productivity but also poses health hazards to humans due to accumulation of toxic metals in edible grains. In the present investigation, three rice cultivars viz., Saryu-52, Sabha-5204, and Pant-4 were grown in garden soil (GS, control) and various amendments (10%, 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%) of FA for a period of 90 days and effect on growth and productivity of plant was evaluated vis-a-vis metal accumulation in the plants. The toxicity of FA at higher concentration (50%) was reflected by the reduction in photosynthetic pigments, protein and growth parameters viz., plant height, root biomass, number of tillers, grain and straw weight. However, at lower concentrations (10-25%), FA enhanced growth of the plants as evident by the increase of studied growth parameters. The cysteine and non-protein thiol (NP-SH) content showed increase in their levels up to 100% FA as compared to control, however, maximum content was found at 25% FA in Saryu-52 and Pant-4 and at 50% FA in Sabha-5204. Accumulation of Fe, Si, Cu, Zn, Mn, Ni, Cd and As was investigated in roots, leaves and seeds of the plants. Fe accumulation was maximum in all the parts of plant followed by Si and both showed more translocation to leaves while Mn, Zn, Cu, Ni and Cd showed lower accumulation and most of the metal was confined to roots in all the three cultivars. As was accumulated only in leaves and was not found to be in detectable levels in roots and seeds. The metal accumulation order in three rice cultivars was Fe > Si > Mn > Zn > Ni > Cu > Cd > As in all the plant parts. The results showed that rice varieties Saryu-52 and Sabha-5204 were more tolerant and could show improved growth and yield in lower FA application doses as compared to Pant-4. Thus, Sabha-5204 and Saryu-52 are found suitable for cultivation in FA amended agricultural soils for better crop yields.
17168884	A construct suitable for genome-wide transfer-DNA (T-DNA) and subsequent transposon-based (Ds) gene trapping has been developed for use in rice (Oryza sativa). This T-DNA/Ds construct contains: Ds terminal sequences immediately inside T-DNA borders for subsequent Ds mobilization; promoterless green fluorescent protein (sgfpS65T) and beta-glucuronidase (uidA) reporter genes, each fused to an intron (from Arabidopsis GPA1 gene) to enable bidirectional gene trapping by T-DNA or Ds; an ampicillin resistance gene (bla) and a bacterial origin of replication (ori) to serve as the plasmid rescue system; an intron-containing hygromycin phosphotransferase gene (hph) as a selectable marker or Ds tracer; and an intron-containing barnase gene in the binary vector backbone (VB) to select against transformants carrying unwanted VB sequences. More than a threefold increase over previously reported reporter gene-based gene trapping efficiencies was observed in primary T-DNA/Ds transformant rice lines, returning an overall reporter gene expression frequency of 23%. Of the plant organs tested, 3.3-7.4% expressed either reporter at varying degrees of organ or tissue specificity. Approximately 70% of the right border (RB) flanking sequence tags (FSTs) retained 1-6 bp of the RB repeat and 30% of the left border (LB) FSTs retained 5-23 bp of the LB repeat. The remaining FSTs carried deletions of 2-84 bp inside the RB or 1-97 bp inside the LB. Transposition of Ds from the original T-DNA was evident in T-DNA/Ds callus lines super-transformed with a transposase gene (Ac) construct, as indicated by gene trap reporter activity and rescue of new FSTs in the resulting double transformant lines.
17168888	Seven homozygous transgenic lines of two European commercial cultivars of rice (Ariete (A) and Senia (S)), harbouring the cry1B or cry1Aa Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) delta-endotoxin genes, were field evaluated for protection from striped stem borer (SSB) (Chilo suppressalis) damage during the 2001 and 2002 summer crop seasons in the Delta de l'Ebre region, Spain. The plant codon-optimized toxin gene was placed under the control of the promoter of either the constitutive ubi1 gene or the wound-inducible mpi gene from maize. Stable, high-level, insecticidal protein accumulation was observed throughout root, leaf and seed tissues of field-grown plants harbouring the cry1B (lines A64.1, A33.1, A3.4 and S98.9) or cry1Aa (lines S05.1 and A19.14) genes under the control of the ubi1 promoter. Conversely, no toxin was detected in unwounded vegetative tissues of the A9.1 line harbouring the cry1B gene controlled by the mpi promoter, indicating that natural environmental stresses did not trigger the activity of the wound-inducible promoter. However, the toxin accumulated at 0.2% total soluble proteins in A9.1 sheath tissue exhibiting brown lesions resulting from SSB damage. The agronomical traits and performance of the transgenic lines were generally comparable with parental controls, except in the two lines accumulating Cry1Aa, which exhibited a high frequency of plants non-true to type. Natural infestation was assisted with manual infestations of L2/L3 SSB larvae in border control plants surrounding the experimental plots, which served as a reservoir for the second-cycle SSB population. The observation of damage (brown lesions and dead hearts) during the crop season and dissection of plants at harvest stage revealed a range of protection amongst the transgenic lines, which was highly consistent with the level of toxin accumulation and with previous experience in greenhouse assays. Lines A3.4 and S05.1 were found to exhibit stable and full protection against SSB attacks, mediated by the accumulation of Cry1B and Cry1Aa toxin, respectively, which was comparable with that afforded by the spraying of chemical insecticides on control plants. The wound-induced A9.1 line exhibited a satisfactory level of protection, with a notably low level of penetration of SSB larvae in the stems, but higher external symptoms than constitutive lines, probably due to the time lag to benefit from the protective effect of Cry1B.
17168898	This study was designed to produce yeast (Schwanniomyces occidentalis) phytase in rice with a view to future applications in the animal feed industry. To achieve high-level production, chimeric genes with the secretory signal sequence of the rice chitinase-3 gene were constructed using either the original full-length or N-truncated yeast phytase gene, or a modified gene whose codon usage was changed to be more similar to that of rice, and then introduced into rice (Oryza sativa L.). When the original phytase genes were used, the phytase activity in the leaves of transgenic rice was of the same level as in wild-type plants, whose mean value was 0.039 U/g fresh weight (g-FW) (1 U of activity was defined as 1 micromol P released per min at 37 degrees C). In contrast, the enzyme activity was increased markedly when codon-modified phytase genes were introduced: up to 4.6 U/g-FW of leaves for full-length codon-modified phytase, and 10.6 U/g-FW for truncated codon-modified phytase. A decrease in the optimum temperature and thermal stability was observed in the truncated heterologous enzyme, suggesting that the N-terminal region plays an important role in enzymatic properties. In contrast, the optimum temperature and pH of full-length heterologous phytase were indistinguishable from those of the benchmark yeast phytase, although the heterologous enzyme was less glycosylated. Full-length heterologous phytase in leaf extract showed extreme stability. These results indicate that codon modification, combined with the use of a secretory signal sequence, can be used to produce substantial amounts of yeast phytase, and possibly any phytases from various organisms, in an active and stable form.
17168904	To investigate the role of subunit assembly in the intracellular deposition of multimeric recombinant proteins, we expressed a partially humanized secretory immunoglobulin in rice endosperm cells and determined the subcellular locations of the assembled protein and its individual components. Transgenic rice plants expressing either individual subunits or all the subunits of the antibody were generated by particle bombardment, and protein localization was determined by immunoelectron microscopy. Assembly of the antibody was confirmed by immunoassay and coimmunoprecipitation. Immunolocalization experiments showed no evidence for secretion of the antibody or any of its components to the apoplast. Rather, the nonassembled light chain, heavy chain and secretory component accumulated predominantly within endoplasmic reticulum-derived protein bodies, while the assembled antibody, with antigen-binding function, accumulated specifically in protein storage vacuoles. These results show that the destination of a complex recombinant protein within the plant cell is influenced by its state of assembly.
17169384	Osmotic stress can endanger the survival of plants. To investigate the mechanisms of how plants respond to osmotic stress, rice protein profiles from mannitol-treated plants, were monitored using a proteomics approach. Two-week-old rice seedlings were treated with 400mM mannitol for 48h. After separation of proteins from the basal part of leaf sheaths by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, 327 proteins were detected. The levels of 12 proteins increased and the levels of three proteins decreased with increasing concentration or duration, of mannitol treatment. Levels of a heat shock protein and a dnaK-type molecular chaperone were reduced under osmotic, cold, salt and drought stresses, and ABA treatment, whereas a 26S proteasome regulatory subunit was found to be responsive only to osmotic stress. Furthermore, proteins whose accumulation was sensitive to osmotic stress are present in an osmotic-tolerant cultivar. These results indicate that specific proteins expressed in the basal part of rice leaf sheaths show a coordinated response to cope with osmotic stress.
17169981	Plant small RNAs (smRNAs), which include microRNAs (miRNAs), short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and trans-acting siRNAs (ta-siRNAs), are emerging as significant components of epigenetic processes and of gene networks involved in development and in homeostasis. Here we present a bioinformatics resource for cereal crops, the Cereal Small RNA Database (CSRDB), consisting of large-scale datasets of maize and rice smRNA sequences generated by high-throughput pyrosequencing. The smRNA sequences have been mapped to the rice genome and to the available maize genome sequence and these results are presented in two genome browser datasets using the Generic Genome Browser. Potential RNA targets for the smRNAs have been predicted and access to the resulting smRNA/RNA target pair dataset has been made available through a MySQL based relational database. Various ways to access the data are provided including links from the genome browser to the target database. Data linking and integration are the main focus for this interface, and internal as well as external links are present. The resource is available at http://sundarlab.ucdavis.edu/smrnas/ and will be updated as more sequences become available.
17171258	Rapid increase in industrialization and agricultural activities to meet the population need has led to environmental pollution. The major revolution in agricultural production is mainly due to increased use of pesticides and fertilizers. Soil act as a major sink for majority of pesticides applied on agricultural crops. Among the organochlorines, endosulfan is the most commonly used pesticide, hence this study concentrates on the persistence and distribution behaviour of endosulfan under field conditions. The result showed that the alpha endosulfan concentrations were very minimum (0.98 mg/kg of soil) in all the four fields under study (Nazarath, Othikadu, Ekkadu and Ekkadukandigai of Thiruvallur district, Tamil Nadu). Where as beta endosulfan concentration at the time of application was 6.39 mg/kg and declined to 0.8 mg/kg on soil at 150th day. The endosulfan sulfate concentration was 11.8 mg/kg in soil at 15th day and then concentration declined to 2.2 mg/kg at 150th day. Field run-off samples showed maximum residue levels (0.024 mg/l) at the early irrigation period. While plant foliar parts showed maximum concentrations of alpha-endosulfan (43.4 mg/kg), beta-endosulfan (40.6 mg/kg) and endosulfan sulfate (20.1 mg/kg). At harvest stage, rice grain and husk also had lower concentrations of endosulfan sulfate (2.2 and 0.09 mg/kg), respectively.
17171390	The short-day plant rice varies greatly in photoperiod sensitivity (PS) for flowering. The hybrid F(1) from a cross between the day-neutral pure line EM93-1 and the weedy rice accession SS18-2 had stronger PS than SS18-2. Some BC(1) (EM93-1/F(1)) segregates were even more sensitive to photoperiod than the F(1), as indicated by later flowering or no flowering after 250 days under a 14-h long daylength. A genome-wide scan identified the quantitative trait loci Se (7.1), Se (7.2) and Se (8) for PS from the BC(1) population, with all alleles that inhibit flowering derived from SS18-2. These three loci regulate the time of flowering under long daylength through their main effects, and di- and trigenic epistases. Under a 10-h short daylength, the regulation is through Se (7.1) and Se (8) main effects and digenic epistases involving all three loci. The short daylength not only nullified the main effect of Se (7.2), but also changed its epistatic effects from inhibiting flowering under long daylength to promoting flowering. The epistases indicate that genes underlying the three PS loci work in the same pathway for the control of flowering. Many non-flowered BC(1)s were the trigenic heterozygote; this suggests that the three PS loci are also involved in genetic control of critical daylength.
17172047	OsPT6:1, a phosphate transporter encoding gene from the leaf samples of Oryza sativa, was identified through PCR with specifically designed primers. The phylogenetic analysis and the conserved amino acid residue site detection suggested OsPT6:1 a possible high-affinity phosphate transporter encoding gene. In situ hybridization and RT-PCR demonstrated the expression of OsPT6:1 in both roots and leaves. The peak expression signal was observed in mesophyll cells under low phosphorus (P) induction. A homologous recombination study indicated that OsPT6:1 can enhance the Pi uptake efficiency of Pichia pastoris. At the meantime, the introduction of OsPT6:1 was able to complement the Pi uptake function of yeast cells with high-affinity phosphate transporters deficient. Those results substantiated our contention that OsPT6:1 encoded a high-affinity phosphate transporter of Oryza sativa.
17172048	Anther culture offers a rapid method of generating homozygous lines for breeding program and genetic analysis. To produce homozygous transgenic lines of rice (Oryza sativa L.) in one step, we developed an efficient protocol of anther-callus-based transformation mediated by Agrobacterium after optimizing several factors influencing efficient transformation, including callus induction and Agrobacterium density for co-cultivation. Using this protocol, we obtained 145 independent green transformants from five cultivars of japonica rice by transformation with a binary vector pCXK1301 bearing the rice gene, Xa21 for resistance to bacterial blight, of which 140 were further confirmed by PCR and Southern hybridization analysis, including haploids (32.1%), diploids (62.1%) and mixoploids (7.5%). Fifteen diploids were found to be doubled haploids, which accounted for 10.7% of the total positive lines. Finally, by including 28 from colchicine induced or spontaneous diploidization of haploids later after transformation, a total of 43 doubled haploids (30.7%) of Xa21 transgenic lines were obtained. We also generated two RNAi transgenic haploids of the rice OsMADS2 gene, a putative redundant gene of OsMADS4 based on their sequence similarity, to investigate its possible roles in rice flower development by this method. Flowers from the two OsMADS2 RNAi transgenic haploids displayed obvious homeotic alternations, in which lodicules were transformed into palea/lemma-like tissues, whereas identities of other floral organs were maintained. The phenotypic alternations were proved to result from specific transcriptional suppression of OsMADS2 gene by the introduced RNAi transgene. The results confirmed that OsMADS2 is involved in lodicule development of rice flower and functionally redundant with OsMADS4 gene. Our results demonstrated that rice anther culture could be adapted to gene transformation and RNAi analysis in rice.
17172291	The rice (Oryza sativa) genome contains 1,429 protein kinases, the vast majority of which have unknown functions. We created a phylogenomic database (http://rkd.ucdavis.edu) to facilitate functional analysis of this large gene family. Sequence and genomic data, including gene expression data and protein-protein interaction maps, can be displayed for each selected kinase in the context of a phylogenetic tree allowing for comparative analysis both within and between large kinase subfamilies. Interaction maps are easily accessed through links and displayed using Cytoscape, an open source software platform. Chromosomal distribution of all rice kinases can also be explored via an interactive interface.
17172743	Major advances in rice genomics during the last few years have made positional cloning in rice much more efficient. Nipponbare is a model rice genotype being sequenced by the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project Consortium. Here, we describe an efficient procedure of the construction of physical map for positional cloning of resistance gene (R) using the Nipponbare genetic resources. This advanced strategy should be useful for the efficient identification of agronomic important R genes from many resistant rice genotypes, including wild rice species.
17172744	Magnaporthe grisea is the causal agent of rice blast disease and represents a model organism for the study of fungal plant-pathogen interactions. Pathogenicity is a complex phenotype, which is carefully orchestrated by the fungus and begins with recognition and infection of the host plant, followed by growth within the plant cells, and finally dissemination to the next host and continuation of the fungal life cycle. Certain genes must condition the ability of a pathogenic fungus to infect and cause disease symptoms. To learn more about the infection process and the genes that are involved in the complex interplay between M. grisea and rice, we used an insertional mutagenesis approach to attempt to randomly disrupt all genes in the fungal genome. Two transformation approaches were used to build a library of insertion strains in M. grisea. Polyethylene glycol/CaCl2-mediated protoplast transformation was the initial method we used and resulted in the generation of just more than 17,000 insertion strain lines. Later Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation was adopted and the final number of insertional mutant strains of M. grisea strain 70-15 generated was more than 57,000. Here, we describe the methods used for A. tumefaciens-mediated transformation of M. grisea and the optimized protocols we have developed to enable high-throughput fungal transformation.
17172746	We describe a reliable GAL4-based yeast two-hybrid system for identifying and isolating clones encoding proteins interacting with a protein of interest. This two-hybrid system gives extremely low background and few false-positive clones, making it ideal for library screening purposes. We have successfully used it not only to isolate Arabidopsis NPR1-interactors from rice but also to pull out the rice NPR1 ortholog using one of the interactors as bait.
17172751	Identification of important transcripts from fungal pathogens and host plants is indispensable for full understanding the molecular events occurring during fungal-plant interactions. Recently, we developed an improved LongSAGE method called robust-long serial analysis of gene expression (RL-SAGE) for deep transcriptome analysis of fungal and plant genomes. Using this method, we made 10 RL-SAGE libraries from two plant species (Oryza sativa and Zea maize) and one fungal pathogen (Magnaporthe grisea). Many of the transcripts identified from these libraries were novel in comparison with their corresponding EST collections. Bioinformatic tools and databases for analyzing the RL-SAGE data were developed. Our results demonstrate that RL-SAGE is an effective approach for large-scale identification of expressed genes in fungal and plant genomes.
17172752	Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is a powerful RNA-silencing based technology adapted for the study of host-gene function. VIGS functions through the expression of a host gene from a virus vector. Both the virus-encoded host sequence and the homologous host target messenger RNA are destroyed or made inactive through a host surveillance system. Here, we describe procedures for the use of a new virus vector for VIGS in monocotyledonous hosts and, in particular, in rice (Oryza sativa), a species for which no VIGS vector was previously available.
17172753	The RNA interference (RNAi) technique is a powerful tool to suppress gene expression and has been widely used for functional discovery of eukaryotic genes. To dissect defense-signaling pathways in rice, it is important to generate a series of rice mutant lines deficient in or insensitive to major signal molecules such as jasmonic acid and ethylene. Here we describe an RNAi protocol for generating and characterizing transgenic gene-silencing lines defective in rice jasmonic acid signaling. The RNAi technique should be useful for effective suppression of host genes encoding signaling components and facilitating the dissection of defense signal pathways in rice.
17173360	The rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel, has two generations in southern Zhejiang, China. To determine oogenesis in first-generation females (summer females) and its relations to temperature, females were collected from a rice field in early and mid-July and reared on young rice plants at 28, 31 and 34 degrees C in the laboratory. Percentage of females having oocytes, number of oocytes of different stages (stage-I, from early previtellogenesis to middle vitellogenesis; stage-II, late vitellogenesis; and mature-oocyte stage), and length of ovarioles were determined every 10 d of feeding. At each temperature, oogenesis took place in over 40% of females after 20~40 d of feeding, but only 0.0~3.3 stage-I, 0.0~0.8 stage-II and 0.0~1.1 mature oocytes were observed at each observation date. Temperature had significant effect on number of stage-I oocytes but not on number of stage-II and mature oocytes in early July females; temperature had no significant effect on number of oocytes of either stage in mid-July females. Conclusively, in southern Zhejiang, summer L. oryzophilus females have great potential to become reproductive on rice, but their oogenesis activity is very low, with the overall procedures little affected by temperature.
17173616	Hybrid breeding, by taking advantage of heterosis, brings about many superior properties to the F1 progeny. However, some properties, such as increased plant height, are not desirable for agronomic purposes. To specifically counter the height increase associated with hybrid progeny, we employed an Arabidopsis model and tested a trans-activation system for specifically expressing a mutated GAI gene only in the F1 hybrid plants to reduce plant stature. A transcriptional activator, the Gal4 DNA-binding domain fused to the acidic activation domain of herpes simplex virus VP16 protein, driven by a maize ubiquitin promoter, was introduced in one parental line. A rice GAI homologue with an N-terminal deletion of the DELLA domain, driven by a promoter that is responsive to the transcriptional activator, was transferred into another parental line. After genetic crossing, trans-activation of the GAI mutant gene resulted in a dwarf phenotype. Over 50 pair-wise crosses between the parental lines were performed, and analyses suggested that the percentage of F1 progeny exhibiting dwarfism ranged from about 25% to 100%. Furthermore, the dwarfism trait introduced in F1 progeny did not seem to affect total seed yield. Our result suggests the feasibility of manipulating F1 hybrid progeny traits without affecting parent plants or the agronomic property of the progeny.
17173619	The maize proteinase inhibitor (mpi) gene was introduced into two elite japonica rice varieties. Both constitutive expression of the mpi gene driven by the maize ubiquitin 1 promoter and wound-inducible expression of the mpi gene driven by its own promoter resulted in the accumulation of MPI protein in the transgenic plants. No effect on plant phenotype was observed in mpi-expressing lines. The stability of transgene expression through successive generations of mpi rice lines (up to the T(4) generation) and the production of functional MPI protein were confirmed. Expression of the mpi gene in rice enhanced resistance to the striped stem borer (Chilo suppressalis), one of the most important pests of rice. In addition, transgenic mpi plants were evaluated in terms of their effects on the growth of C. suppressalis larvae and the insect digestive proteolytic system. An important dose-dependent reduction of larval weight of C. suppressalis larvae fed on mpi rice, compared with larvae fed on untransformed rice plants, was observed. Analysis of the digestive proteolytic activity from the gut of C. suppressalis demonstrated that larvae adapted to mpi transgene expression by increasing the complement of digestive proteolytic activity: the serine and cysteine endoproteinases as well as the exopeptidases leucine aminopeptidase and carboxypeptidases A and B. However, the induction of such proteolytic activity did not prevent the deleterious effects of MPI on larval growth. The introduction of the mpi gene into rice plants can thus be considered as a promising strategy to protect rice plants against striped stem borer.
17173630	The early methionine (Em) proteins are members of the late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) group of proteins that have been considered to be embryo specific. The ability of a 646-bp wheat Em promoter to control green fluorescent protein (gfp) expression was investigated in transgenic barley and rice. Seeds of transgenic plants expressed gfp in the developing embryo but also in the aleurone layer. The 646-bp Em promoter also directed strong gfp expression in cells comprising the junction between the endosperm transfer cells and cells of the aleurone layer. Em-gfp expression in transgenic barley showed differences in spatial and temporal control when compared with that observed in transgenic rice. Em-gfp expression was also detected in mature aleurone cells of transgenic barley and rice with and without abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) results indicated the presence of Em and Em-homologous transcript in embryo, aleurone and endosperm tissues of wheat and of barley and rice, respectively. These results suggest that Em proteins may be expressed in both the embryo and aleurone during seed development, possibly providing protection against desiccation in these two tissues that survive seed drying. They may also have a similar role in these tissues during germination. The Em promoter from wheat may be useful in the expression of novel genes in cereal grains, as an embryo- and aleurone-specific promoter complementing other available endosperm- and pericarp-specific promoters to collectively increase the expression of transgenes in seeds.
17173638	Peptide immunotherapy using dominant T-cell epitopes is safer and more effective than conventional immunotherapy for the treatment of immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated allergic diseases. When allergenic T-cell epitope peptides are expressed in the edible part of transgenic plants, successful mucosal immune tolerance to these allergens may be attainable by the consumption of these plants. In this study, we generated transgenic rice seed that accumulated high concentrations (about 60 microg per grain) of polypeptide consisting of seven dominant human T-cell epitopes derived from the Japanese cedar pollen allergens, Cry j 1 and Cry j 2, in the endosperm. Oral administration of these transgenic rice seeds to B10.S mice before or after they were immunized with Cry j 1 holoprotein reduced not only their T-cell proliferative response to Cry j 1, but also their serum IgE levels, proving the efficacy of oral immunotherapy for the treatment of pollinosis.
1717390	Diamond's TYI-S-33 (Trypticase-Yeast Extract-Iron-Serum) medium was used as the basis for a new antibiotic-free medium for xenic growth of Entamoeba gingivalis. Nutritional requirements of the oral protozoan were determined in an effort to optimize growth. TYI-S-33 medium did not support E. gingivalis growth prior to modification. The changes included: (a) deletion of L-cysteine.HCl and thioctic acid, (b) substitution of glucose for dextran I (mol. wt 185,000) or rice starch, (c) reduction of concentrations of tryptone (2.5 g l-1), yeast extract (1.25 g l-1) and dextran I (1 g l-1), (d) increased concentration of ferric ammonium citrate (0.2 g l-1), and (e) addition of gastric mucin (2.4 g l-1). Dextran I was chosen as the major carbon source; its use in the medium limited growth of accompanying bacteria. This new antibiotic-free medium significantly increased E. gingivalis growth (16-20 E. gingivalis trophozoites observed per field) as compared to growth in Diamond's TYSGM-9 (Trypticase-Yeast Extract-Serum-Gastric Mucin) medium (six to 10 E. gingivalis trophozoites observed per field).
17174956	Yeast two-hybrid and coimmunoprecipitation assays indicated that P8, an outer capsid protein of Rice dwarf phytoreovirus (RDV), interacts with rice glycolate oxidase (GOX), a typical enzyme of peroxisomes. Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that P8 was colocalized with GOX in peroxisomes. Time course analysis demonstrated that the localization of P8 in Spodoptera frugiperda cells changed from diffuse to discrete, punctuate inclusions during expression from 24 to 48 h post inoculation. Coexpression of GOX with P8 may target P8 into peroxisomes, which serve as replication sites for a number of viruses. Therefore, we conclude that the interaction of P8 with the GOX of host cells leads to translocation of P8 into peroxisomes and we further propose that the interaction between P8 and GOX may play important roles in RDV targeting into the replication site of host cells. Our findings have broad significance in studying the mechanisms whereby viruses target appropriate replication sites and begin their replication.
17175048	Geographic information system and remote sensing technologies were used to identify landscape features associated with risk of West Nile virus transmission as defined by the presence of confirmed horse cases. SPOT-4 images of Camargue area were used to generate a map of landscape categories of epidemic foci and the geographic information system was employed to determine the proportion of landscape components surrounding 10 horse case sites and 17 control sites. The spatio-temporal analysis of the cases outbreak gave the best results for a spatial window of 9 km and a temporal window of 18 days. Two clusters were identified (relative risk=3.35), both in the wet area of Camargue, near the town "Les Saintes Maries de la Mer". The first one was 4 km radius, the second 9 km. The relationships between the presence of cases and proportions of landscape categories were analyzed using generalized linear model. The best model indicated that rice fields and dry bushes, wet "sansouire" and open water were the major components of the landscape that were associated with the presence of West Nile virus cases.
17175063	Sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) offers the potential to be a phytoremediator species due to its outstanding biomass production, but its prospective metal accumulation and tolerance have not been fully characterized. Sugarcane plantlets were able to tolerate up to 100microM of copper in nutrient solution for 33 days, with no significant reduction in fresh weight, while accumulating 45mgCukg(-1) shoot dry weight. Higher levels of copper in solution (250 and 500microM) were lethal. Sugarcane displayed tolerance to 500microM Cd without symptoms of toxicity, accumulating 451mgCdkg(-1) shoot dry weight after 33 days, indicating its potential as Cd phytoremediator. DNA gel blot analyses detected 8 fragments using a metallothionein (MT) Type I probe, while 10 were revealed for the MT Type II and 8 for MT Type III. The number of genes for each type of MT in sugarcane might be similar to the ones identified in rice considering the interspecific origin of sugarcane cultivars. MT Type I gene appeared to present the highest level of constitutive expression, mainly in roots, followed by MT Type II, corroborating the expression pattern described based on large-scale expressed sequence tags sequencing. MT Type II and III genes were more expressed in shoots, where MT I was also importantly expressed. Increasing Cu concentration had little or no effect in modulating MT genes expression, while an apparent minor modulation of some of the MT genes could be detected in Cd treatments. However, the level of response was too small to explain the tolerance and/or accumulation of Cd in sugarcane tissues. Thus, cadmium tolerance and accumulation in sugarcane might derive from other mechanisms, although MT may be involved in oxidative responses to high levels of Cd. Sugarcane can be considered a potential candidate to be tested in Cd phytoremediation.
17175078	Solution culture experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of silicon (Si) on arsenate (As(V)) uptake by rice. The addition of Si to the pretreatment or uptake solution significantly decreased shoot and root As concentrations (P<0.001 and P<0.05). The presence of Si in the pretreatment or uptake solution also significantly decreased shoot P concentrations (P<0.001). The data demonstrated that both internal and external Si inhibited the uptake of As and P. Results of As uptake kinetics showed that the mechanism of the effect of Si on arsenate uptake is not caused by direct competition for active sites of transporters with As. The effect of Si on As uptake was not entirely mediated through the effect of Si on P uptake. Although the addition of Si to pretreatment solutions still significantly decreased shoot and root As concentrations, the extent of reduction became smaller when rice roots were coated with iron plaque.
17176393	* Fructans are believed to contribute to cold and drought tolerance in several plant families (Poaceae, Asparagaceae and Asteraceae), but it is not clear why the ability to accumulate these polymers is found in some genera (e.g. Triticum) but not in others (e.g. Oryza). * As fructan biosynthesis enzymes (FBEs) evolved from vacuolar invertases (VINs), we searched the rice genome sequence for genes related to both FBE and VIN genes of wheat and other members of the Pooideae. We compared them at the levels of exon-intron structure, protein sequence, and the enzymatic properties of recombinant proteins after expression in the yeast Pichia pastoris. * We found that rice possesses two VIN genes (OsVIN1 and OsVIN2) and no FBE genes. FBE genes appear to have arisen in the Pooideae by a series of gene duplications from an ancestor of wheat TaVIN3. Recombinant TaVIN2, OsVIN1 and OsVIN2 behaved as invertases with no FBE activity, but possessed high fructan exohydrolase activity, especially OsVIN1. * The engineering of fructan accumulation into rice for greater stress tolerance could founder on endogenous exohydrolases, but the fact that OsVIN1 transcripts are absent from peduncles of well watered and drought-stressed plants removes one potential obstacle to this endeavour.
17176755	Three isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa were used for seed treatment of rice; all showed plant growth promoting activity and induced systemic resistance in rice against Rhizoctonia solani G5 and increased seed yield. Production of salicylic acid (Sal) by P. aeruginosa both in vitro and in vivo was quantified with high performance liquid chromatography. All three isolates produced more Sal in King's B broth than in induced roots. Using a split root system, more Sal accumulated in root tissues of bacterized site than in distant roots on the opposite site of the root system after 1 d, but this difference decreased after 3 d. Sal concentration 0-200 g/L showed no inhibition of mycelial growth of R. solani in vitro, while at > or =300 g/L it inhibited it. P. aeruginosa-pretreated rice plants challenged inoculation with R. solani (as pathogen), an additional increase in the accumulation of peroxidase was observed. Three pathogenesis-related peroxidases in induced rice plants were detected; molar mass of these purified peroxidases was 28, 36 and 47 kDa. Purified peroxidase showed antifungal activity against phytopathogenic fungi R. solani, Pyricularia oryzae and Helminthosporium oryzae.
17176987
17176996
17177062	In vitro cultures of plant cells have often been utilized to generate genetic variations, which are designated somaclonal variations. Little is known about the major genetic alterations in the cultured cells and the nature of these genetic changes. Here, we examined different lines of rice Oc cells that have been cultured for more than 20 years on agar media or in liquid media. We surveyed 35 clones obtained from PCR amplification of the 3-kb EPSPs-RPS20 region. The sequence divergence among the Oc cells was even greater than that between Japonica and Indica rice cultivars. The divergent sequences appeared to be maintained as multiple copies in a single cell. Surprisingly, the nucleotide substitutions in the Oc cells were characterized by an extremely high frequency of transition mutations of A/T-to-G/C, a feature which is similar to that of the mutations caused by chemical mutagens such as 5-bromouracil and 2-aminopurine. Although no replacements in the exons of this region were observed among the AA-genome Oryza species, our results revealed that the nucleotide substitutions of the cultured cell lines occurred more frequently at replacement sites in the exons than at synonymous sites. These distinct mutation biases found in rice in vitro cultures might contribute importantly to somaclonal variations.
17177170	Systemic application of sodium silicate can significantly enhance the levels of leaf silica in winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Mercia), suggesting that this material could reduce the palatability of plants to vertebrate herbivores (e.g. rabbits, Oryctolagus cuniculus L.). A bioassay was developed using hydroponically grown wheat plants. Plants treated with sodium silicate were significantly more resistant to grazing by wild rabbits than untreated plants, with severe, potentially lethal feeding damage being reduced by over 50%. Further studies were carried out to develop more practical techniques for boosting silica levels in plants using silicon-rich 'fertilisers' including calcium silicate and calcium silicate slag (CSS). Silica levels were elevated in the plant 1.9-2.8 times over the control through the application of various silicon materials, in line with those of the hydroponic treatment. Encouragingly, levels of silica were elevated even in young wheat plants, which are most vulnerable to rabbit damage, and in a range of wheat varieties. The use of CSS is particularly promising because of its lower cost in comparison with calcium silicate, and it has a proven track record in slag fertilisation of rice and sugar cane crops. At the optimum CSS application rate of 3 g silicon L(-1) soil, wheat silica levels were approximately doubled, with no detrimental impacts on long-term growth or yield.
17177518	Transgenic rice seeds, which express a hybrid peptide comprising seven predominant human T cell epitopes (7Crp) derived from Japanese cedar pollen allergens, have been shown to function as an effective edible vaccine for the control of pollen allergen-induced responses. In this study, we characterized biochemical properties of transgenic seeds expressing the 7Crp peptide. The levels of chemical compositions, such as carbohydrate, protein, lipid, amino acid, fatty acid, mineral, and vitamin, were substantially equivalent between transgenic 7Crp and its nontransgenic counterpart seeds. The contents of three major allergenic proteins in transgenic seeds were not enhanced by expression of the 7Crp peptide when compared with those of nontransgenic seeds. The 7Crp peptide expressed in seeds was susceptible to simulated gastric/intestinal fluids. N-Glycosylation was not observed in the 7Crp peptide sequence. These results indicate that transgenic 7Crp seeds are substantially equivalent to nontransgenic parental seeds except for the presence of the 7Crp peptide. Food safety assessment; transgenic rice seed; edible vaccine; peptide-based immunotherapy; Japanese cedar pollinosis.
17177522	Rice color changes from white to amber during parboiling (soaking and steaming). Color parameters indicated that, during soaking, yellow bran pigments leached out in the water. The levels of the Maillard precursors (i.e., reducing sugars (RS) and free alpha-amino nitrogen (FAN)) depended on soaking temperature and time: leaching of RS was compensated by enzymic formation for long soaking times (>60 min), while proteolytic activity was too low to compensate for FAN leaching. Rice soaking under nitrogen, oxygen, or ambient conditions and determination of polyphenol oxidase activity allowed us to conclude that the effect of enzymic color changes on the soaked rice color was rather small. Color measurements of brown and milled mildly, intermediately, and severely parboiled rice samples showed that both brown and milled rice samples were darker and more red and yellow after parboiling and that the effect depended on the severity of parboiling conditions. Furthermore, steaming affected the rice color more and in a way opposite to that observed in soaking. The changes in RS and the loss of FAN during parboiling suggested that Maillard type reactions occur during brown rice steaming. Analyses of furosine levels confirmed Maillard browning of outer bran layers and endosperm during steaming. The level of this Maillard indicator increased with the severity of parboiling conditions in both brown and milled parboiled rice. Measurements of the levels of bran pigments indicated that bran pigments diffuse into the endosperm during parboiling and contribute to the parboiled rice color.
17177531	This paper describes a method for achieving qualitative identification of four rice varieties from two different Italian regions. To estimate the presence of genetic diversity among the four rice varieties, we used polymerase chain reaction-randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (PCR-RAPD) markers, and to elucidate whether a relationship exists between the ground and the specific characteristics of the product, we studied proximate composition, fatty acid composition, mineral content, and total antioxidant capacity. Using principal component analysis on genomic and compositional data, we were able to classify rice samples according to their variety and their district of production. This work also examined the discrimination ability of different parameters. It was found that genomic data give the best discrimination based on varieties, indicating that RAPD assays could be useful in discriminating among closely related species, while compositional analyses do not depend on the genetic characters only but are related to the production area.
17177790	The cooking quality of rice is associated with the starch gelatinization temperature (GT). Rice genotypes with low GT have probably been selected for their cooking quality by humans during domestication. We now report polymorphisms in starch synthase IIa (SSIIa) that explain the variation in rice starch GT. Sequence analysis of the eight exons of SSIIa identified significant polymorphism in only exon 8. These single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined in 70 diverse genotypes of rice. Two SNPs could classify all 70 genotypes into either high GT or low GT types which differed in GT by 8 degrees C. 'A' rather than 'G' at base 2412 determined whether a methionine or valine was present at the corresponding amino acid residue in SSIIa, whilst two adjacent SNPs at bases 2543 and 2544 coded for either leucine (GC) or phenylalanine (TT). Rice varieties with high GT starch had a combination of valine and leucine at these residues. In contrast, rice varieties with low GT starch had a combination of either methionine and leucine or valine and phenylalanine at these same residues. At least two distinct polymorphisms have apparently been selected for their desirable cooking qualities in the domestication of rice.
17177793	Cell walls are dynamic structures that represent key determinants of overall plant form, plant growth and development, and the responses of plants to environmental and pathogen-induced stresses. Walls play centrally important roles in the quality and processing of plant-based foods for both human and animal consumption, and in the production of fibres during pulp and paper manufacture. In the future, wall material that constitutes the major proportion of cereal straws and other crop residues will find increasing application as a source of renewable fuel and composite manufacture. Although the chemical structures of most wall constituents have been defined in detail, the enzymes involved in their synthesis and remodelling remain largely undefined, particularly those involved in polysaccharide biosynthesis. There have been real recent advances in our understanding of cellulose biosynthesis in plants, but, with few exceptions, the identities and modes of action of polysaccharide synthases and other glycosyltransferases that mediate the biosynthesis of the major non-cellulosic wall polysaccharides are not known. Nevertheless, emerging functional genomics and molecular genetics technologies are now allowing us to re-examine the central questions related to wall biosynthesis. The availability of the rice, Populus trichocarpa and Arabidopsis genome sequences, a variety of mutant populations, high-density genetic maps for cereals and other industrially important plants, high-throughput genome and transcript analysis systems, extensive publicly available genomics resources and an increasing armoury of analysis systems for the definition of candidate gene function will together allow us to take a systems approach to the description of wall biosynthesis in plants.
17177797	The efficient production of stable transgenic plants is important for both crop improvement and functional genomics. Site-specific integration of foreign genes into a designated genomic position is an attractive tool for minimizing expression variability between transgenic lines. Here, we studied the utility of a Cre-mediated, site-specific integration approach, facilitated by particle bombardment, for streamlining the production of stable transgenic plants, using rice as a model species. Using this method, we generated 18 different transgenic lines containing a precise integration of a single copy of beta-glucuronidase gene (gusA) into a designated genomic location. Eleven of these lines contained no illegitimate integration in the background (single-copy lines), and seven contained illegitimate integrations in addition to the site-specific integration (multicopy lines). We monitored gusA expression in these lines up to three to four successive generations. Each of the single-copy lines expressed the gusA gene at consistent levels and nearly doubled the expression level in the homozygous state. In contrast, multicopy lines displayed expression variation and gene silencing. In about half of the multicopy lines, however, expression of the site-specific integration locus could be reactivated and stabilized on segregation of the illegitimate integrations, whereas, in the remaining half, expression could not be restored, as they contained genetically linked illegitimate integrations. This study demonstrates that biolistic-mediated, site-specific gene integration is an efficient and reliable tool for streamlining the production of stable transgenic plants.
17177874	The slow gas diffusion rate in flooded soil not only causes oxygen deficiency, but also favours the accumulation of ethylene in root systems to concentrations that may strongly affect root elongation. Previously published experiments showed that root elongation in rice is much less strongly inhibited by ethylene than in some other species less well adapted to wet conditions. Rice roots have also been reported to produce abnormally little ethylene. We tested if these traits are typical of wetland species and are thus likely to be widespread adaptive traits. Comparisons using 14 species indicated that insensitivity to the inhibiting effects of ethylene on root elongation is unlikely to be a common feature of temperate wetland species. However, resistance to longitudinal gas diffusion within roots of wetland species, which largely depends on diameter and the presence of gas-filled channels, was found to be less than in non-wetland species. We show that this can help maintain low internal ethylene concentrations by venting accumulated gas to the shoot and atmosphere.
17180357	Using ethane as a marker for peroxidative damage to membranes by reactive oxygen species (ROS) we examined the injury of rice seedlings during submergence in the dark. It is often expressed that membrane injury from ROS is a post-submergence phenomenon occurring when oxygen is re-introduced after submergence-induced anoxia. We found that ethane production, from rice seedlings submerged for 24-72 h, was stimulated to 4-37 nl gFW(-1), indicating underwater membrane peroxidation. When examined a week later the seedlings were damaged or had died. On de-submergence in air, ethane production rates rose sharply, but fell back to less than 0.1 nl gFW(-1) h(-1) after 2 h. We compared submergence-susceptible and submergence-tolerant cultivars, submergence starting in the morning (more damage) and in the afternoon (less damage) and investigated different submergence durations. The seedlings showed extensive fatality whenever total ethane emission exceeded about 15 nl gFW(-1). Smaller amounts of ethane emission were linked to less extensive injury to leaves. Partial oxygen shortage (O(2) levels <1%) imposed for 2 h in gas phase mixtures also stimulated ethane production. In contrast, seedlings under anaerobic gas phase conditions produced no ethane until re-aerated: then a small peak was observed followed by a low, steady ethane production. We conclude that damage during submergence is not associated with extensive anoxia. Instead, injury is linked to membrane peroxidation in seedlings that are partially oxygen deficient while submerged. On return to air, further peroxidation is suppressed within about 2 h indicating effective control of ROS production not evident during submergence itself.
17180359	This article deals with the origin and evolution of the DOF transcription factor family through a phylogenetic analysis of those DOF sequences identified from a variety of representative organisms from different taxonomic groups: the green unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the moss Physcomitrella patens, the fern Selaginella moellendorffii, the gymnosperm Pinus taeda, the dicotyledoneous Arabidopsis thaliana and the monocotyledoneous angiosperms Oryza sativa and Hordeum vulgare. In barley, we have identified 26 different DOF genes by sequence analyses of clones isolated from the screening of genomic libraries and of ESTs, whereas a single DOF gene was identified by bioinformatics searches in the Chlamydomonas genome. The phylogenetic analysis groups all these genes into six major clusters of orthologs originated from a primary basal grade. Our results suggest that duplications of an ancestral DOF, probably formed in the photosynthetic eukaryotic ancestor, followed by subsequent neo-, sub-functionalization and pseudogenization processes would have triggered the expansion of the DOF family. Loss, acquisition and shuffling of conserved motifs among the new DOFs likely underlie the mechanism of formation of the distinct subfamilies.
17180424	Self-organizing neural networks can be used to mimic non-linear systems. The main objective of this study is to make pattern classification and recognition on sampling information using two self-organizing neural network models. Invertebrate functional groups sampled in the irrigated rice field were classified and recognized using one-dimensional self-organizing map and self-organizing competitive learning neural networks. Comparisons between neural network models, distance (similarity) measures, and number of neurons were conducted. The results showed that self-organizing map and self-organizing competitive learning neural network models were effective in pattern classification and recognition of sampling information. Overall the performance of one-dimensional self-organizing map neural network was better than self-organizing competitive learning neural network. The number of neurons could determine the number of classes in the classification. Different neural network models with various distance (similarity) measures yielded similar classifications. Some differences, dependent upon the specific network structure, would be found. The pattern of an unrecognized functional group was recognized with the self-organizing neural network. A relative consistent classification indicated that the following invertebrate functional groups, terrestrial blood sucker; terrestrial flyer; tourist (nonpredatory species with no known functional role other than as prey in ecosystem); gall former; collector (gather, deposit feeder); predator and parasitoid; leaf miner; idiobiont (acarine ectoparasitoid), were classified into the same group, and the following invertebrate functional groups, external plant feeder; terrestrial crawler, walker, jumper or hunter; neustonic (water surface) swimmer (semi-aquatic), were classified into another group. It was concluded that reliable conclusions could be drawn from comparisons of different neural network models that use different distance (similarity) measures. Results with the larger consistency will be more reliable.
17180734	In order to facilitate the functional analysis of rice genes, we produced about 50,000 insertion lines with the endogenous retrotransposon Tos17. Phenotypes of these lines in the M2 generation were observed in the field and characterized based on 53 phenotype descriptors. Nearly half of the lines showed more than one mutant phenotype. The most frequently observed phenotype was low fertility, followed by dwarfism. Phenotype data with photographs of each line are stored in the Tos17 mutant panel web-based database with a dataset of sequences flanking Tos17 insertion points in the rice genome (http://tos.nias.affrc.go.jp/). This combination of phenotypic and flanking sequence data will stimulate the functional analysis of rice genes.
17181274	We present the results of molecular dynamics simulations of crystalline hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-s-triazine (RDX) using the SRT-AMBER force field (P. M. Agrawal et al., J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 5721), which combines the rigid-molecule force field developed by Sorescu-Rice-Thompson (D. C. Sorescu, B. M. Rice, and D. L. Thompson, J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 798) with the intramolecular interactions obtained from the Generalized AMBER Force Field (Wang et al., J. Comput. Chem. 2004, 25, 1157). The calculated crystal density at room conditions is about 10% lower than the measured value, while the lattice parameters and thermodynamic melting point are within about 5% at ambient pressure. The chair and inverted chair conformation, bond lengths, and bond angles of the RDX molecule are accurately predicted; however, there are some inaccuracies in the calculated orientations of the NO2 groups. The SRT-AMBER force field predicts overall reasonable results, but modifications, probably in the torsional parameters, are needed for a more accurate force field.
17182003	The Nbs1 gene is known to code for a protein involved in the hereditary cancer-prone disease, Nijmegen breakage syndrome. This gene is conserved in animals and fungi, but no plant homolog is known. The work reported here describes a homolog of Nbs1 isolated from higher plants. The Nbs1 proteins from both Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa are smaller in size than animal or yeast Nbs1, but both contain the conserved Nbs1 domains such as the FHA/BRCT domain, the Mre11-binding domain, and the Atm-interacting domain in orientations similar to what is seen in animal Nbs1. The OsNbs1 protein interacted not only with plant Mre11, but also with animal Mre11. In plants, OsNbs1 mRNA expression was found to be higher in the shoot apex and young flower, and AtNbs1 expression increased when plants were exposed to 100 Gy of X-rays. These results suggest that plant Nbs1 could participate in a Rad50/Mre11/Nbs1 complex, and could be essential for the regulation of DNA recombination and DNA damage responses.
17182080	Copper is an essential micronutrient for plants. Present at a high concentration in soil, copper is also regarded as a major toxicant to plant cells due to its potential inhibitory effects against many physiological and biochemical processes. The interference of germination-related proteins by heavy metals has not been well documented at the proteomic level. In the current study, physiological, biochemical and proteomic changes of germinating rice seeds were investigated under copper stress. Germination rate, shoot elongation, plant biomass, and water content were decreased, whereas accumulation of copper and TBARS content in seeds were increased significantly with increasing copper concentrations from 0.2mM to 1.5mM followed by germination. The SDS-PAGE showed the preliminary changes in the polypeptides patterns under copper stress. Protein profiles analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) revealed that 25 protein spots were differentially expressed in copper-treated samples. Among them, 18 protein spots were up-regulated and 7 protein spots were down-regulated. These differentially displayed proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. The up-regulation of some antioxidant and stress-related proteins such as glyoxalase I, peroxiredoxin, aldose reductase, and some regulatory proteins such as DnaK-type molecular chaperone, UlpI protease, and receptor-like kinase clearly indicated that excess copper generates oxidative stress that might be disruptive to other important metabolic processes. Moreover, down-regulation of key metabolic enzymes like alpha-amylase or enolase revealed that the inhibition of seed germinations after exposure to excess copper not only affects starvation in water uptake by seeds but also results in failure in the reserve mobilization processes. These results indicate a good correlation between the physiological and biochemical changes in germinating rice seeds exposed to excess copper.
17182157	Rice roots and surrounding air, soil and water samples were collected for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) analysis. The rice roots were separated into lateral roots and nodal roots, and the PAH concentration in the former was found to be higher than that in the latter. In addition, root physiological characteristics including root biotic mass, root lipid content and specific surface area are also discussed. When normalizing the total, adsorption and absorption PAH fractions on a dry root weight basis to root biomass, root lipid, and surface area bases respectively, the differences between PAHs in the two types of roots diminished by 2 to 3 times on average. Results from sequential extraction indicated that PAHs were more easily absorbed by interior rice roots than adsorbed on the surface. In addition, more than 60% of total PAHs accumulated in root tissue for both lateral and nodal roots. However, the results were highly related to the solvent used, extraction time and methodology. Correlation analysis between bioconcentration factors (root over environment) and K(OA), K(OW) showed water to be more significant for PAH adsorption in rice roots than other environmental media.
17182701	Plant cell walls constitute the bulk of the earth renewable source of energy and are a component in the diet of humans and herbivores. l-Arabinofuranosyl (Araf) residues are a quantifiably important constituent of these walls. Plants use uridine diphosphate (UDP)-l-arabinofuranose (UDP-Araf) to donate Araf residues in the biosynthesis of Araf-containing polysaccharides, proteoglycans, and glycoproteins. However, little is known about the formation of UDP-Araf. We now describe the purification and partial characterization of a rice UDP-arabinopyranose mutase (UAM) that catalyzes the formation of UDP-Araf from UDP-arabinopyranose (UDP-Arap). The reaction is reversible and at thermodynamic equilibrium the pyranose form is favored over the furanose form (90 : 10). Three related proteins that are encoded by rice gene loci Os03g40270, Os04g56520, and Os07g41360 were identified from partial amino acid sequences of UAM. These proteins have >80% sequence identity with polypeptides that are reversibly glycosylated in the presence of UDP-sugars. The rice mutase and two functionally active recombinant mutases were shown to be reversibly glycosylated in the presence of UDP-Glc. The cofactor, flavin-adenine-dinucleotide (FAD), is required for the catalytic activity of UDP-galactose mutases of prokaryotes, fungi, and protozoa. The plant mutases, which do not require a cofactor, must therefore have a different catalytic mechanism. Putative UAM-encoding genes are present in the green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the moss Physcomitrella patens, the gymnosperm Pinus taeda (loblolly pine), and in numerous dicots and monocots, indicating that UAMs are widespread in green plants.
17182895	Nucleotide variation in 10 unlinked nuclear genes was investigated in species-wide samples of Oryza officinalis and its close relatives (Oryza eichingeri and Oryza rhizomatis). Average estimates of nucleotide diversity were the lowest in O. rhizomatis ((sil) = 0.0038) and the highest in O. eichingeri ((sil) = 0.0057) that is disjunctly distributed in Africa and Sri Lanka. These wild rice species appeared to harbor relatively low levels of nucleotide variation relative to other plant species because the diversity level of O. eichingeri is only 23-46% of those in Zea species and 35% of that in Arabidopsis thaliana. The lower nucleotide diversity in these Oryza species could be best explained by their smaller historic effective population sizes. The speciation model test indicated that O. officinalis and its close relatives might have undergone a process of population contraction since divergence from their ancestor. Incongruent topologies among 10 gene trees, particularly regarding the positions of O. eichingeri and O. rhizomatis accessions might be attributed to lineage sorting arising from ancient polymorphism and hybridization/introgression between the Sri Lankan O. eichingeri and O. rhizomatis. However, the null hypothesis of the isolation model was not rejected for any contrast between taxa, which suggested that no subsequent gene flow shaped the present patterns of nucleotide variation since their divergence and that introgression was not pervasive in this group of species. Our molecular dating provides an approximate divergence time of 0.37 Myr between 2 geographical races of O. eichingeri, much more recent compared with the times of other speciation events in this group (0.63-0.68 Myr). A long-distance dispersal from West Africa to Sri Lanka was more likely to play a role in the disjunct distribution of O. eichingeri.
17183688	Current anticholinesterase pesticides were developed during World War II and are toxic to mammals because they target a catalytic serine residue of acetylcholinesterases (AChEs) in insects and in mammals. A sequence analysis of AChEs from 73 species and a three-dimensional model of a malaria-carrying mosquito (Anopheles gambiae) AChE (AgAChE) reported here show that C286 and R339 of AgAChE are conserved at the opening of the active site of AChEs in 17 invertebrate and four insect species, respectively. Both residues are absent in the active site of AChEs of human, monkey, dog, cat, cattle, rabbit, rat, and mouse. The 17 invertebrates include house mosquito, Japanese encephalitis mosquito, African malaria mosquito, German cockroach, Florida lancelet, rice leaf beetle, African bollworm, beet armyworm, codling moth, diamondback moth, domestic silkworm, honey bee, oat or wheat aphid, the greenbug, melon or cotton aphid, green peach aphid, and English grain aphid. The four insects are house mosquito, Japanese encephalitis mosquito, African malaria mosquito, and German cockroach. The discovery of the two invertebrate-specific residues enables the development of effective and safer pesticides that target the residues present only in mosquito AChEs rather than the ubiquitous serine residue, thus potentially offering an effective control of mosquito-borne malaria. Anti-AgAChE pesticides can be designed to interact with R339 and subsequently covalently bond to C286. Such pesticides would be toxic to mosquitoes but not to mammals.
17184798	Light signals received by phytochromes in plants may be transduced through protein phosphorylation. Ca(2+) as second messenger was involved in phytochrome-mediated cellular events. Our experiments with Cucumis sativus cotyledons, treated with red (R) and far-red (FR) light, showed a stimulatory effect on in vitro protein phosphorylation of histone, added as exogenous substrate to the cotyledon extracts, and also modified the phosphorylation of endogenous polypeptides. The effect of light treatments was mimicked by the addition of Ca(2+) to the phosphorylation buffer, indicating phytochrome- and Ca(2+)-dependence on activity of some protein kinases (PKs). In-gel kinase assays were performed to characterize the PKs involved at the cotyledon stage of cucumber plants. Three proteins of about 75, 57 and 47kDa with PK activity were detected between M(r) markers of 94 and 45kDa. All three were able to phosphorylate histone and undergo autophosphorylation. However, only the 75 and 57kDa proteins autophosphorylated and phosphorylated the substrate in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, and were inhibited when calmodulin (CaM) antagonists were added to the incubation buffer. Western-blot analysis with polyclonal antibodies directed against calcium-dependent protein kinase of rice (OsCDPK11) or Arabidopsis (AtCPK2) recognised 57 and 75kDa polypeptides, respectively. These results indicate the presence in cucumber cotyledons of at least two proteins (ca. 75 and 57kDa) with activity of PKs that could be calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs). Both CDPKs could be modulated by phytochromes throughout FR-HIR and VLFR responses.
17184821	Assessment of environmental contamination on ecology (plant) at molecular and population levels is important in risk quantification and remediation study. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) assay and related other fingerprinting techniques have been employed to detect the genotoxin-induced DNA damage and mutations. This research compared the effects occurring at molecular and population levels in rice seedlings exposed to cadmium (Cd) concentrations of 15-60 mg l(-1) for 8 days with quartz sand culture. Inhibition of root growth and increase of total soluble protein content in root tips of rice seedlings were observed with the increase of Cd concentration. For the RAPD analyses, 12 RAPD primers of 50-70% GC content were found to produce unique polymorphic band patterns and subsequently were used to produce a total of 180 bands of 179-3056 bp in molecular size in the control root tips of rice seedlings. Results produced by these RAPD primers indicate that changes in RAPD profiles of root tips after Cd treatment include modifications in band intensity and gain or loss of bands by comparison with control. The effect of changes was dose-dependent. Genomic template stability compares favourably with the traditional indices such as root growth and soluble protein content. The DNA polymorphisms detected by RAPD analysis can be applied as a suitable biomarker assay for the detection of genotoxic effects of Cd contamination on plants.
17185171	Seedling albino mutation resistant to low temperature is an adaptability of rice (Oryza sativa L.) to cold. The mutant, a conditional expression controlled by development and temperature, differs from other albino mutants. The chlorophyll content of the mutant was measured using a portable chlorophyll meter, and the ultrastructure of the chloroplast was observed using a transmission electron microscope. Chlorophyll content was 1.2 SPAD, and the chloroplast did not develop, with only small vesicle-like structures. A segregation analysis of the reciprocal crosses between the albino mutation line with the rice line 9311 demonstrated that the albino trait was controlled by a single recessive gene, which was flanked by SSR markers RM5068 and RM3702 on the short arm of chromosome 8 with a distance of 0.5-1.1 cM and 4.9 cM, respectively. This gene was mapped within a 6 cM interval region and was tentatively referred to as al12.
17185173	To study the transferability of rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome data, we used amplified consensus genetic markers to analyze the phylogenetic relationships among several species and genera in Gramineae. Ten accessions representing five grass genera (Oryza, Zea, Setaria, Triticum, and Phyllostachys) were used. According to the genetic distances, a cluster tree was constructed. The relationships among the five genera could be simply described as ((Oryza + (Zea +Setaria)) +Triticum) +Phyllostachys. The results suggest that the genetic distance between rice and maize (Z. mays L.) or rice and millet (Setaria italica L.) is closer than that between rice and wheat (Triticum aestivum L) or rice and bamboo.
17185270	Millions of people worldwide consume arsenic-contaminated rice; however, little is known about the uptake and bioavailability of arsenic species after arsenic-contaminated rice ingestion. In this study, we assessed arsenic speciation in greenhouse-grown and supermarket-bought rice, and determined arsenic bioavailability in cooked rice using an in vivo swine model. In supermarket-bought rice, arsenic was present entirely in the inorganic form compared to greenhouse-grown rice (using irrigation water contaminated with sodium arsenate), where most (approximately 86%) arsenic was present as dimethylarsinic acid (organic arsenic). Because of the low absolute bioavailability of dimethylarsinic acid and the high proportion of dimethylarsinic acid in greenhouse-grown rice, only 33 +/- 3% (mean +/- SD) of the total rice-bound arsenic was bioavailable. Conversely, in supermarket-bought rice cooked in water contaminated with sodium arsenate, arsenic was present entirely in the inorganic form, and bioavailability was high (89 +/- 9%). These results indicate that arsenic bioavailability in rice is highly dependent on arsenic speciation, which in turn can vary depending on rice cultivar, arsenic in irrigation water, and the presence and nature of arsenic speciation in cooking water. Arsenic speciation and bioavailability are therefore critical parameters for reducing uncertainties when estimating exposure from the consumption of rice grown and cooked using arsenic-contaminated water.
17185738	NADP-thioredoxin reductases (NTRs) reduce thioredoxins (Trxs), using NADPH as a reductant, together constituting complete redox systems (NTS). Beside NTRA and NTRB targeted to both cytosol and mitochondria of plant cells, there is in chloroplasts an unusual NTR (NTRC) harbouring a Trx domain in a C-terminal extension, as recently reported in Oryza sativa. Although NTRC may constitute a complete NTS, it was described as a bifunctional enzyme. Because the gene is only present in photosynthetic organisms and the protein in green tissues, NTRC was thought to have a role restricted to photosynthetic cells. To determine whether NTRC from dicot plants is a bifunctional enzyme or a complete NTS, as well as to identify its putative target, NTRC from Medicago truncatula was cloned and NTRA was cloned for comparison. Here evidence is presented that MtNTRC (i) acts as an NTS and reduces dithiobisnitrobenzoate (DTNB) with a turnover (0.62 s(-1)) similar to that measured with MtNTRA in the presence of a Trxh (0.81 s(-1)); (ii) is able to use both NADPH (k(M)=2.4 microM) and NADH (k(M)=11 microM) as cofactors; (iii) efficiently reduces BAS1, a plastidial peroxiredoxin; and (iv) is expressed in both leaves and stems but unexpectedly is even more abundant in cotyledons from dry and germinating seeds. Because BAS1 is also present in both green tissues and seeds, NTRC/BAS1 may be involved in the scavenging of peroxides produced in green tissues during the day or the night and in seeds during germination. These results suggest different roles for NTRC in monocot and dicot plants.
1718614	The nucleotide sequences of the tRNASer (trnS), pseudo-tRNA, NADH dehydrogenase subunit 3 (nad3), and ribosomal protein S12 (rps12) genes from rice mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) were determined. Both trnS and nad3 were confirmed to be single copy genes by Southern blot analysis. The nad3 and rps12 genes were arranged in tandem, and the two were co-transcribed. The order of the above four genes in rice mtDNA differed from the linear order observed for the wheat and maize genes. In rice mitochondria, the trnS and pseudo-tRNA genes were found upstream of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene, instead of the nad3 and rps12 genes as observed in maize and wheat. Additionally, while the rice nad3 and rps12 genes remain paired, they too are in a different sequence environment from the wheat and maize genes. The apparent split of the two pairs of genes indicates the occurrence of a mitochondrial intramolecular recombinational event. Another peculiarity is that the sequence upstream of the translational initiation codon of the rice nad3 gene is different from that of the wheat and maize versions. The ATG initiation codon of wheat and maize nad3 is replaced by TTG in the rice nad3. A subsequent deduction of the amino acid sequence, accompanied by a primer extension analysis, indicates that the predicted rice NAD3 protein has an additional 37 amino acid residues at its N-terminus compared to the wheat and maize NAD3 proteins. cDNA sequence analysis showed no introns or the occurrence of RNA editing at the newly replaced TTG codon.
17186154	Nitrogen fixation is an important process in biogeochemical cycles exclusively carried out by prokaryotes, mostly by an evolutionarily conserved nitrogenase protein complex, of which one of the structural genes (nifH) is highly valuable for phylogenetic and diversity analyses. We developed a nifH-based short oligonucleotide microarray (nifH diagnostic microarray) as a rapid tool to effectively monitor nitrogen-fixing diazotrophic populations in a wide range of environments. Taking account of the overwhelming predominance of environmental nifH fragments from uncultivated microorganisms in public databases, our nifH microarray is mainly based on nifH sequences from as yet unidentified prokaryotes. Standard conditions for microarray performance were determined, and criteria for the design of specific oligonucleotides were defined. A primary set of 56 oligonucleotides was validated with fluorescence-labeled single-stranded nifH targets from five reference strains, 26 environmental clones, and artificial mixtures of reference strains. The nifH microarray was applied to analyze the diversity (based on DNA) and activity (based on mRNA) of diazotrophs in roots of wild rice samples from Namibia. Results demonstrated that only a small subset of diazotrophs being present in the sample were actually fixing nitrogen actively. Our data suggest that the developed nifH microarray is a highly reproducible and semiquantitative method for mapping the variability of diazotrophic diversity, allowing rapid comparisons of the relative abundance and activity of diazotrophic prokaryotes in the environment. A further refined nifH microarray comprising of 194 oligonucleotide probes now covers more than 90% of sequences in our nifH database.
17186677	Fresh cooked rice cakes for retail sale are typically held at room temperature because refrigeration dramatically reduces their quality. Room temperature, high water activity, and a pH of > 4.6 provided an environment conducive to pathogen growth. To date, no studies have been published regarding survival and growth of foodborne pathogens in fresh cooked rice cakes. This study was undertaken to investigate the effect of steam cooking on foodborne pathogens and their subsequent growth in five varieties of rice cakes made from flours of regular rice, sweet rice, white rice, tapioca, and mung bean. Bacillus cereus spores were detected in white rice, tapioca, and mung bean samples. The rice cake flours were inoculated with non-spore-forming foodborne pathogens (Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, Listeria monocytogenes, and Staphylococcus aureus) or spore-forming bacteria (Bacillus cereus) and steam cooked (100 degrees C) for 30 min. Steam cooking significantly reduced (> 6 log CFU/g) non-spore-forming foodborne pathogens in all samples and inactivated spores of B. cereus by 1 to 2 log CFU/g. Although spores of B. cereus survived steam cooking and germinated during 3 days of storage at room temperature, populations in most rice cakes remained below 106 CFU/g, which is the threshold for producing toxin. Rice cakes made from mung bean flour supported growth and germination of B. cereus spores above that critical level. In mung bean rice cakes, enterotoxin production was detected by the second day, when B cereus cell populations reached about 6.9 log CFU/g. The toxin concentration increased with storage time. However, our results suggest that rapid growth of total mesophilic microorganisms by more than 7 to 8 log CFU/ml during the first day of storage produced off flavors and spoilage before B. cereus was able to grow enough to produce toxins. Therefore, steam-cooked rice cakes made from a variety of flours including mung bean flour are safe for sale for up to 1 day after storage at room temperature and are free of B. cereus toxins.
17187297	This study was designed to evaluate the effect of an anthocyanin-rich extract from black rice on hyperlipidemia and insulin resistance in fructose-fed rats. Rats fed fructose diet for 4 weeks exhibited significantly higher plasma insulin levels and lower insulin sensitivity than the control rats fed AIN-93G diet. Dietary supplementation with the anthocyanin-rich extract (5 g/kg of high-fructose diet) prevented the development of fructose-induced insulin resistance. After fructose-induced insulin resistance had been established, 4-week treatment with the anthocyanin-rich extract (5 g/kg of high-fructose diet) or pioglitazone (270 mg/kg of high-fructose diet) ameliorated the glucose intolerance and hyperlipidemia, but the extract failed to reverse the fructose-induced hyperinsulinemia as pioglitazone did. In addition, rats supplemented by the extract exhibited lower oxidative stress than the fructose-fed controls, as indicated by the lower concentrations of plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and blood oxidized glutathione. Overall, these results suggest that the anthocyanin-rich extract from black rice improves certain metabolic abnormalities associated with diets high in fructose.
17187943	The 3' untranslated regions deeply affect many properties of eukaryotic mRNA. In plants, the polyadenine control signals contained in these regions seem to be more variable than of mammals. Three cDNA libraries derived from the leaf, endosperm and stem tissues of rice were sequenced from the 3'-end. Of the 9911 transcripts analyzed, 5723 unique transcripts were identified from the leaf sequences, 2934 from the endosperm and 1254 from the stem. The information entropy and two statistical methods were used to compile a list of rice poly(A) control signals. Based on their distribution, these signals can be roughly grouped into far-upstream element (FUE), near-upstream element (NUE), T-rich region (TRE) and downstream element (DE). The distribution of rice conserved regions is similar to the previous model from Arabidopsis and yeast, with a few differences in word constructions. Interestingly, we also found the word distributions were diverse in the cleavage site of downstream sequences of different rice tissues. The signal bias in downstream sequences may lead mRNA to be differently cleaved in different rice tissues.
17188915	A selective lysis of relatively young erythrocytes (neocytolysis), together with a decrease of erythropoietin (EPO) production, has been described in polycythemic, high altitude acclimatized climbers, after descent to sea level, and in astronauts, soon after exposure to weightlessness (Alfrey CP, Rice L, Udden MM, Driscoll TB. Neocytolysis may represent the physiological down-regulation of red-cell mass. Lancet 349 (1997) 1389-90). To study neocytolysis, we analysed blood samples drawn from 4 mountain climbers at sea level before and after 53 days of high altitude acclimatization (> or = 4500 m). After a 6-day descent to sea level, erythropoietin (EPO) plasma levels were lower than before high altitude acclimatization (mean values: 2.5+/-3.3 versus 10+/-4.5 mIU/ml, p < 0.05). Red blood cell (RBC) populations were separated into low, middle and high density subsets, which, by physical and phenotypical criteria, were characterized as young, middle-aged and old. RBC membrane molecules CD55 and CD59 along with phosphatydylserine and CD47 were measured. The former are partially lost during RBC aging. The latter are involved in the triggering or inhibition of RBC phagocytosis by macrophages. Immunofluorescence and flow cytometry were done on each density subset. Young and middle-aged RBCs largely disappeared after descent from high altitude (from 4.50% (+/-3.10) and 66% (+/-6.90) to 0.19% (+/-0.07) and 1.90% (+/-0.50), respectively). Simultaneously, there was a dramatic increase of high density RBCs (from 29.50% (+/-7) to 97.90% (+/-2.00)). Furthermore, the remaining young and middle-aged RBCs had acquired a senescent-like phenotype, which may account for their increased susceptibility to phagocytosis.
17189090	In Japan, rice vinegar that has been matured and fermented for years in earthenware jars is considered a health food with anticolon cancer action. It is divided into the liquid component (Kurozu) and the sediment (Kurozu moromimatsu), which contains large amounts of organic materials and minerals. The effect of Kurozu moromimatsu (Kurozu-M) on cancer has not yet been examined. In this study, we examined the activity of Kurozu-M on colon cancer and investigated the mechanisms involved, focusing on active oxygen generation, apoptosis, and metalloproteinases (MMPs). We used Lovo cells transplanted into nude mice as an experimental model. We measured the tumor volume and MMP levels and conducted hematoxylin-eosin staining (for polymorphonuclear leukocytes), terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling staining (for apoptosis), and immunostaining for nitrotyrosine (a marker of active oxygen generation) in control, Kurozu-treated, and Kurozu-M--treated groups. The tumor volume was the same in the control group (231 +/- 36 mm(3)) and Kurozu group (238 +/- 52 mm(3)), but was significantly reduced in the Kurozu-M group (152 +/- 28 mm(3), P < 0.001 versus control). Apoptosis of tumor cells and accumulation of polymorphonuclear leukocytes were not observed. Nitrotyrosine production, total MMP levels, and MMP activation were significantly reduced in the Kurozu-M group. The administration of Kurozu-M prolonged the lifespan of cancer cell-transplanted mice, inhibited tumor progression, and reduced nitrotyrosine production and MMP activation, but did not induce apoptosis.
17189339	We have analyzed proteome dynamics during light-induced development of rice (Oryza sativa) chloroplasts from etioplasts using quantitative two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and tandem mass spectrometry protein identification. In the dark, the etioplast allocates the main proportion of total protein mass to carbohydrate and amino acid metabolism and a surprisingly high number of proteins to the regulation and expression of plastid genes. Chaperones, proteins for photosynthetic energy metabolism, and enzymes of the tetrapyrrole pathway were identified among the most abundant etioplast proteins. The detection of 13 N-terminal acetylated peptides allowed us to map the exact localization of the transit peptide cleavage site, demonstrating good agreement with the prediction for most proteins. Based on the quantitative etioplast proteome map, we examined early light-induced changes during chloroplast development. The transition from heterotrophic metabolism to photosynthesis-supported autotrophic metabolism was already detectable 2 h after illumination and affected most essential metabolic modules. Enzymes in carbohydrate metabolism, photosynthesis, and gene expression were up-regulated, whereas enzymes in amino acid and fatty acid metabolism were significantly decreased in relative abundance. Enzymes involved in nucleotide metabolism, tetrapyrrole biosynthesis, and redox regulation remained unchanged. Phosphoprotein-specific staining at different time points during chloroplast development revealed light-induced phosphorylation of a nuclear-encoded plastid RNA-binding protein, consistent with changes in plastid RNA metabolism. Quantitative information about all identified proteins and their regulation by light is available in plprot, the plastid proteome database (http://www.plprot.ethz.ch).
17190597	Ten thousand years ago human societies around the globe began to transition from hunting and gathering to agriculture. By 4000 years ago, ancient peoples had completed the domestication of all major crop species upon which human survival is dependent, including rice, wheat, and maize. Recent research has begun to reveal the genes responsible for this agricultural revolution. The list of genes to date tentatively suggests that diverse plant developmental pathways were the targets of Neolithic "genetic tinkering," and we are now closer to understanding how plant development was redirected to meet the needs of a hungry world.
17191517
17191930	Monascin (1) constitutes one of the azaphilonoid pigments in the extracts of Monascus pilosus-fermented rice (red-mold rice). Compound 1 was evaluated for its anti-tumor-initiating activity via oral administration on the two-stage carcinogenesis of mouse skin tumor induced by peroxynitrite (ONOO-; PN) or by ultraviolet light B (UVB) as an initiator and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) as a promoter. Compound 1 exhibited marked inhibitory activity on both PN- and UVB-induced mouse skin carcinogenesis tests. These findings suggest that compound 1 may be valuable as potential cancer chemopreventive agent in chemical and environmental carcinogenesis.
17192402	By confining water in a nanoporous structure so narrow that the liquid could not freeze, it is possible to study properties of this previously undescribed system well below its homogeneous nucleation temperature TH = 231 K. Using this trick, we were able to study, by means of a Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, vibrational spectra (HOH bending and OH-stretching modes) of deeply supercooled water in the temperature range 183 < T < 273 K. We observed, upon decreasing temperature, the building up of a new population of hydrogen-bonded oscillators centered around 3,120 cm(-1), the contribution of which progressively dominates the spectra as one enters into the deeply supercooled regime. We determined that the fractional weight of this spectral component reaches 50% just at the temperature, TL approximately 225 K, where the confined water shows a fragile-to-strong dynamic cross-over phenomenon [Ito, K., Moynihan, C. T., Angell, C. A. (1999) Nature 398:492-494]. Furthermore, the fact that the corresponding OH stretching spectral peak position of the low-density-amorphous solid water occurs exactly at 3,120 cm(-1) [Sivakumar, T. C., Rice, S. A., Sceats, M. G. (1978) J. Chem. Phys. 69:3468-3476.] strongly suggests that these oscillators originate from existence of the low-density-liquid phase derived from the occurrence of the first-order liquid-liquid (LL) phase transition and the associated LL critical point in supercooled water proposed earlier by a computer molecular dynamics simulation [Poole, P. H., Sciortino, F., Essmann, U., Stanley, H. E. (1992) Nature 360:324-328].
17192718	Recent studies show that the lipid transfer protein (LTP), the major Rosaceae allergen in patients not sensitized to birch pollen, is a largely cross-reacting allergen. Moreover, it is a potentially hazardous allergen due to its stability upon thermal treatment and pepsin digestion. The present study reports 3 cases of rice-induced anaphylaxis in LTP-allergic patients. In vitro inhibition studies, carried out using LTP purified from both rice and apple as well as whole peach extract, show that LTP was the relevant allergen in these patients and demonstrate the cross-reactivity between rice LTP and peach/apple LTP.
17192822	A sensitive fluorescence enhancement system was developed for the determination of zinc (II). The fluorescence intensity of the Tb- N- (2 - Pyridinyl) ketoacetamide (PKA) system was greatly enhanced by the addition of triethylamine (Et(3)N) and zinc nitrate in the methanol solution. The excitation and emission wavelengths were 329 nm and 546 nm, respectively. Under optimal conditions, the fluorescence intensities varied linearly with the concentration of Zn(2+) in the range of 8.0 x 10(-7)-5.0 x 10(-6) M with a detection limit of 9.9 x 10(-8) M. The interferences of some substances were described. This method was applied to the determination of amounts of Zn(2+) in soybean, rice, and wheat, respectively. The results showed that the proposed procedure is a high selective, simple, and rapid method to the determination of Zn(2+) ion. The mechanism of fluorescence enhancement was also studied.
17193119
17194304	Recently, genomic sequencing efforts were finished for Oryza sativa (cultivated rice) and Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis). Additionally, these two plant species have extensive cDNA and expressed sequence tag (EST) libraries. We employed the Program to Assemble Spliced Alignments (PASA) to identify and analyze alternatively spliced isoforms in both species. A comprehensive analysis of alternative splicing was performed in rice that started with >1.1 million publicly available spliced ESTs and over 30,000 full length cDNAs in conjunction with the newly enhanced PASA software. A parallel analysis was performed with Arabidopsis to compare and ascertain potential differences between monocots and dicots. Alternative splicing is a widespread phenomenon (observed in greater than 30% of the loci with transcript support) and we have described nine alternative splicing variations. While alternative splicing has the potential to create many RNA isoforms from a single locus, the majority of loci generate only two or three isoforms and transcript support indicates that these isoforms are generally not rare events. For the alternate donor (AD) and acceptor (AA) classes, the distance between the splice sites for the majority of events was found to be less than 50 basepairs (bp). In both species, the most frequent distance between AA is 3 bp, consistent with reports in mammalian systems. Conversely, the most frequent distance between AD is 4 bp in both plant species, as previously observed in mouse. Most alternative splicing variations are localized to the protein coding sequence and are predicted to significantly alter the coding sequence. Alternative splicing is widespread in both rice and Arabidopsis and these species share many common features. Interestingly, alternative splicing may play a role beyond creating novel combinations of transcripts that expand the proteome. Many isoforms will presumably have negative consequences for protein structure and function, suggesting that their biological role involves post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression.
17194844	Oxolinic acid (OA) resistance in field isolates of Burkholderia glumae, a causal agent of bacterial grain rot, is dependent on an amino acid substitution at position 83 in GyrA (GyrA83). In the present study, among spontaneous in vitro mutants from the OA-sensitive B. glumae strain Pg-10, we selected OA-resistant mutants that emerged at a rate of 5.7 x 10(-10). Nucleotide sequence analysis of the quinolone resistance-determining region in GyrA showed that Gly81Cys, Gly81Asp, Asp82Gly, Ser83Arg, Asp87Gly, and Asp87Asn are observed in these OA-resistant mutants. The introduction of each amino acid substitution into Pg-10 resulted in OA resistance, similar to what was observed for mutants with the responsible amino acid substitution. In vitro growth of recombinants with Asp82Gly was delayed significantly compared to that of Pg-10; however, that of the other recombinants did not differ significantly. The inoculation of each recombinant into rice spikelets did not result in disease. In inoculated rice spikelets, recombinants with Ser83Arg grew less than Pg-10 during flowering, and growth of the other recombinants was reduced significantly. On the other hand, the reduced growth of recombinants with Ser83Arg in spikelets was compensated for under OA treatment, resulting in disease. These results suggest that amino acid substitutions in GyrA of B. glumae are implicated in not only OA resistance but also fitness on rice plants. Therefore, GyrA83 substitution is thought to be responsible for OA resistance in B. glumae field isolates.
1719522	We investigated the effect of perfusing carbohydrate into the ileum on postprandial pancreaticobiliary secretion and the relationships among carbohydrate in the ileum, pancreaticobiliary secretion, and gastric emptying. Eighteen healthy volunteers were intubated with a multilumen oroileal tube. A metal labeled with 111In-diethylenetriamine-pentaacetic acid (400 calories; 60% carbohydrate, 20% protein, 20% fat) was then infused into the stomach, and a carbohydrate solution (rice starch + glucose) was perfused into the terminal ileum at rates (mg/min) of 0 (saline; n = 6), 12.5 (n = 4), 25 (n = 4), 50 (n = 2), and 100 (n = 2). To prevent digestion of the carbohydrate in the ileum, an amylase inhibitor (3.3 mg/ml) was added to the perfusate used in half of the subjects. Postprandially, we measured outputs of amylase, trypsin, and bile acids in the duodenum, the amount of carbohydrate in the ileum, and gastric emptying. During the second postprandial hour the rate of gastric emptying was inversely related to the amount of carbohydrate in the ileum (p less than 0.01) and was directly correlated with pancreaticobiliary secretion (p less than 0.05). However, as the amount of unabsorbed carbohydrate in the ileum increased, the ratio of amylase to trypsin secretion increased (p less than 0.005). Postprandially carbohydrate in the ileum induces changes of upper-gut function that should increase digestion and absorption of carbohydrate since gastric emptying (and delivery of carbohydrate to the duodenum) slows and pancreatic amylase secretion increases relative to trypsin secretion and gastric emptying.
17195670	Nitrogen fertilizer was applied to rice, Oryza sativa L., before permanent flood to determine the interaction between rice and the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), through a series of experiments conducted over a 3-yr period in Texas and Louisiana. Both absolute and relative percentage of yield loss because of L. oryzophilus feeding was not affected by fertilizer rates in the Texas experiment. Absolute yield loss increased with nitrogen rates in 2001 and 2002 in the Louisiana experiment; however, percentage of yield loss was not affected. This finding suggests that nitrogen rate does not affect tolerance of rice to L. oryzophilus injury. In the Texas experiment, differences were detected for ratoon crop yield among nitrogen rates and insecticide that were applied at preflood on the main crop, indicating a carryover of fertilizer and insecticide effects from the main to the ratoon crop. L. oryzophilus populations tended to increase with nitrogen fertilizer in the Louisiana experiment. Our results show that farmers should not increase preflood nitrogen fertilizer to increase tolerance of rice to L. oryzophilus injury.
17195966	Since varietal differences in allelopathy of crops against weeds were discovered in the 1970s, much research has documented the potential that allelopathic crops offer for integrated weed management with substantially reduced herbicide rates. Research groups worldwide have identified several crop species possessing potent allelopathic interference mediated by root exudation of allelochemicals. Rice, wheat, barley and sorghum have attracted most attention. Past research focused on germplasm screening for elite allelopathic cultivars and the identification of the allelochemicals involved. Based on this, traditional breeding efforts were initiated in rice and wheat to breed agronomically acceptable, weed-suppressive cultivars with improved allelopathic interference. Promising suppressive crosses are under investigation. Molecular approaches have elucidated the genetics of allelopathy by QTL mapping which associated the trait in rice and wheat with several chromosomes and suggested the involvement of several allelochemicals. Potentially important compounds that are constitutively secreted from roots have been identified in all crop species under investigation. Biosynthesis and exudation of these metabolites follow a distinct temporal pattern and can be induced by biotic and abiotic factors. The current state of knowledge suggests that allelopathy involves fluctuating mixtures of allelochemicals and their metabolites as regulated by genotype and developmental stage of the producing plant, environment, cultivation and signalling effects, as well as the chemical or microbial turnover of compounds in the rhizosphere. Functional genomics is being applied to identify genes involved in biosynthesis of several identified allelochemicals, providing the potential to improve allelopathy by molecular breeding. The dynamics of crop allelopathy, inducible processes and plant signalling is gaining growing attention; however, future research should also consider allelochemical release mechanisms, persistence, selectivity and modes of action, as well as consequences of improved crop allelopathy on plant physiology, the environment and management strategies. Creation of weed-suppressive cultivars with improved allelopathic interference is still a challenge, but traditional breeding or biotechnology should pave the way.
17196101	Glycosyl hydrolase family 1 (GH1) beta-glucosidases have been implicated in physiologically important processes in plants, such as response to biotic and abiotic stresses, defense against herbivores, activation of phytohormones, lignification, and cell wall remodeling. Plant GH1 beta-glucosidases are encoded by a multigene family, so we predicted the structures of the genes and the properties of their protein products, and characterized their phylogenetic relationship to other plant GH1 members, their expression and the activity of one of them, to begin to decipher their roles in rice. Forty GH1 genes could be identified in rice databases, including 2 possible endophyte genes, 2 likely pseudogenes, 2 gene fragments, and 34 apparently competent rice glycosidase genes. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that GH1 members with closely related sequences have similar gene structures and are often clustered together on the same chromosome. Most of the genes appear to have been derived from duplications that occurred after the divergence of rice and Arabidopsis thaliana lineages from their common ancestor, and the two plants share only 8 common gene lineages. At least 31 GH1 genes are expressed in a range of organs and stages of rice, based on the cDNA and EST sequences in public databases. The cDNA of the Os4bglu12 gene, which encodes a protein identical at 40 of 44 amino acid residues with the N-terminal sequence of a cell wall-bound enzyme previously purified from germinating rice, was isolated by RT-PCR from rice seedlings. A thioredoxin-Os4bglu12 fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli efficiently hydrolyzed beta-(1,4)-linked oligosaccharides of 3-6 glucose residues and laminaribiose. Careful analysis of the database sequences produced more reliable rice GH1 gene structure and protein product predictions. Since most of these genes diverged after the divergence of the ancestors of rice and Arabidopsis thaliana, only a few of their functions could be implied from those of GH1 enzymes from Arabidopsis and other dicots. This implies that analysis of GH1 enzymes in monocots is necessary to understand their function in the major grain crops. To begin this analysis, Os4bglu12 beta-glucosidase was characterized and found to have high exoglucanase activity, consistent with a role in cell wall metabolism.
17196275	Previous studies have demonstrated that Xuezhikang, an extract of cholestin, available from Chinese red yeast rice, could effectively modify lipid profile. The present study was undertaken to investigate whether Xuezhikang could modify endothelin-1 (ET-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP) and exercise-induced ischemia in patients with cardiac syndrome X (CSX). Thirty-six patients with CSX were randomly assigned to 1200 mg/d of Xuezhikang or placebo group (n=18 respectively). Blood samples were drawn at day 0 and day 90 for measuring above parameters. The treadmill exercise tests and subjective feelings were also assessed at day 0 and day 90. The data showed that Xuezhikang therapy resulted in significant reductions in total cholesterol (TC, 19%), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) (26%), and triglycerides (TG) compared with baseline (16%, p<0.01 respectively). The data also showed that Xuezhikang led significantly to reductions in median and log-CRP levels (38% and 44%, p<0.01 respectively), IL-6 (20%, p<0.01), and ET-1 (47%, p<0.01) compared with baseline. The exercise duration, and time to 1 mm ST-segment depression was significantly prolonged after Xuezhikang therapy (9% and 6%, p<0.05 respectively) accompanied by improvement of subjective feelings. Data suggested that the benefit of Xuezhikang resulted in significant modification vascular function by reduction of ET-1, inflammatory markers and LDL cholesterol, which may be clinically important for patients with CSX.
17196929	Carotenoids and their derivatives are essential for growth, development, and signaling in plants and have an added benefit as nutraceuticals in food crops. Despite the importance of the biosynthetic pathway, there remain open questions regarding some of the later enzymes in the pathway. The CYP97 family of P450 enzymes was predicted to function in carotene ring hydroxylation, to convert provitamin A carotenes to non-provitamin A xanthophylls. However, substrate specificity was difficult to investigate directly in plants, which mask enzyme activities by a complex and dynamic metabolic network. To characterize the enzymes more directly, we amplified cDNAs from a model crop, Oryza sativa, and used functional complementation in Escherichia coli to test activity and specificity of members of Clans A and C. This heterologous system will be valuable for further study of enzyme interactions and substrate utilization needed to understand better the role of CYP97 hydroxylases in plant carotenoid biosynthesis.
17200744	The 2-(4'-isothiocyanate-2'-hydroxyphenyl)benzoxazole dye was successfully applied as label of rice proteins during the alkaline extraction of starch. Direct fluorescence measurements were used to observe the presence of proteins labelled in different steps of rice starch extraction. The results were compared to those obtained with the well-known biuret colorimetric test. Whereas the colorimetric test indicates the absence of protein after the third extraction step, the fluorescence emission of the conjugate could be observed in all extraction steps. The separation of different rice proteins could also be observed.
17201777	Gene expressions of acclimatized and non-acclimatized diapausing larvae were examined in Chilo suppressalis using a subtraction technique. A gene encoding a methionine-rich storage protein, CsSP1, was cloned and its complete cDNA sequence was determined. Potentially, CsSP1 encoded a 758-amino acid protein, with a calculated molecular weight of 88.8 kDa. The expression level of CsSP1 was higher in nondiapausing larvae than in diapausing ones. The CsSP1 expression was up-regulated in diapausing larvae when the temperature of cold acclimation was shifted to 5 degrees C. The up-regulated level was maintained at 40 days after incubation at 5 degrees C. In nondiapausing larvae, CsSP1 expression was down-regulated when the temperature was below developmental zero. Involvement of CsSP1 in diapause, cold tolerance acquisition and postdiapause development in C. suppressalis is discussed.
17202173	Genome-oriented plant research delivers rapidly increasing amount of plant genome data. Comprehensive and structured information resources are required to structure and communicate genome and associated analytical data for model organisms as well as for crops. The increase in available plant genomic data enables powerful comparative analysis and integrative approaches. PlantsDB aims to provide data and information resources for individual plant species and in addition to build a platform for integrative and comparative plant genome research. PlantsDB is constituted from genome databases for Arabidopsis, Medicago, Lotus, rice, maize and tomato. Complementary data resources for cis elements, repetive elements and extensive cross-species comparisons are implemented. The PlantsDB portal can be reached at http://mips.gsf.de/projects/plants.
17204065	Morphological and structural features of starch from potato (Solanum tuberosa) and rice (Oryza sativa) have been examined using atomic force microscopy. Amylose from potato and rice was observed in aggregated structures, which are suggested to be a result of retrogradation during sample preparation. The degrees of polymerization of amylose from potato and rice starches were calculated from the mean contour lengths of the observed structures to be approximately 1440 and 1860, respectively. Potato amylopectin appeared as a highly branched and extended molecule. Our results show that atomic force microscopy provides a useful method for examining the fine structural features and estimating the dimensions of starch molecules.
17204081	Genetically modified (GM) rice with enhanced agronomic traits and pharmaceutical uses are ready for widespread adoption. Little is known about isolation requirements for achieving stringent transgene confinement in rice. To investigate the extent of pollen-mediated crop-to-crop transgene flow, we conducted a field experiment with four plot-size treatments of adjacent GM and nonGM rice (Oryza sativa) in China. Three insect-resistant GM rice (Bt/CpTI) and nonGM isogenic lines were used in the study. The hygromycin-resistance transgene (hpt) marker was used to screen seeds from the nonGM rice rows at different distance intervals from GM rice plots. Based on the examination of > 2.1 million germinated seeds, we found a dramatic reduction in transgene frequencies with increasing distance from the GM crop, ranging from c. 0.28% at 0.2 m to < 0.01% at 6.2 m. In addition, different plot size did not significantly affect the frequencies of gene flow. In conclusion, pollen-mediated crop-to-crop transgene flow in rice can be maintained at negligible levels with short spatial isolation. The model can also be applied to other crops with self- and wind-pollination.
17204541	Identification of physiological traits associated with leaf photosynthetic rate (Pn) is important for improving potential productivity of rice (Oryza sativa). The objectives of this study were to develop a model which can explain genotypic variation and ontogenetic change of Pn in rice under optimal conditions as a function of leaf nitrogen content per unit area (N) and stomatal conductance (g(s)), and to quantify the effects of interaction between N and g(s) on the variation of Pn. Pn, N and g(s) were measured at different developmental stages for the topmost fully expanded leaves in ten rice genotypes with diverse backgrounds grown in pots (2002) and in the field (2001 and 2002). A model of Pn that accounts for carboxylation and CO diffusion processes, and assumes that the ratio of internal conductance to g(s) is constant, was constructed, and its goodness of fit was examined. Considerable genotypic differences in Pn were evident for rice throughout development in both the pot and field experiments. The genotypic variation of Pn was correlated with that of g(s) at a given stage, and the change of Pn with plant development was closely related to the change of N. The variation of g(s) among genotypes was independent of that of N. The model explained well the variation in Pn of the ten genotypes grown under different conditions at different developmental stages. Conclusions The response of Pn to increased N differs with g(s), and the increase in Pn of genotypes with low g(s) is smaller than that of genotypes with high g(s). Therefore, simultaneous improvements of these two traits are essential for an effective breeding of rice genotypes with increased Pn.
17204643	A key gene involved in plant senescence, mutations of which partially disable chlorophyll catabolism and confer stay-green leaf and cotyledon phenotypes, has been identified in Pisum sativum, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Festuca pratensis by using classical and molecular genetics and comparative genomics. A stay-green locus in F. pratensis is syntenically equivalent to a similar stay-green locus on rice chromosome 9. Functional testing in Arabidopsis of a homolog of the rice candidate gene revealed (i) senescence-associated gene expression and (ii) a stay-green phenotype after RNA interference silencing. Genetic mapping in pea demonstrated cosegregation with the yellow/green cotyledon polymorphism (I/i) first reported by Gregor Mendel in 1866.
17205197	MADS-box genes play critical roles in a number of developmental processes in flowering plants, such as specification of floral organ identity, control of flowering time, and regulation of fruit development. Because of their crucial functions in flower development, diversification of the MADS-box gene family has been suggested to be a major factor responsible for floral diversity during radiation of the flowering plants. Inflorescences and flowers in the grass species have unique structures that are distinct from those in eudicots. Thus, it is plausible that the diversification of the function of MADS-box genes may have been a key driving force in the morphological divergence of the flowers and inflorescences in the grasses. Indeed, recent progress in genetic studies has shown that MADS-box genes function in flower development in Oryza sativa (rice), in support of the idea that functional diversification of the MADS-box genes was involved in evolution of the angiosperms. In this review, we summarize the functions of the major subfamilies of the MADS-box genes in rice and discuss their role in the development and evolution of rice flowers and inflorescences.
17205634	Fluorescence investigations of phytochrome (phy) in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) mutants deficient in phyA, phyB and phyA plus phyB were performed. Total content of the pigment (P(tot)) and its spectroscopic and photochemical characteristics were determined in different parts of the dark-grown and far-red light (FR)-grown coleoptiles. Spectroscopically, phyA in the phyB mutant was identical to phyA in the wild-type (WT) and the extent of the conversion from Pr to lumi-R at 85 K was the same for phyA in both lines and varied similarly, depending on the part of the coleoptile used. The latter finding proved that phyA in rice is heterogeneous and comprises two phyA populations, phyA' and phyA". Functional properties of phyA were also determined. In the dark the phyB mutant had a higher content of phyA, inactive protochlorophyllide (Pchlide633) and active protochlorophyllide (Pchlide655) than WT and its coleoptile was longer, indicating that phyB may affect the development of WT seedlings in the dark. Constant FR drastically reduced the content of phyA, Pchlide633 and Pchlide655 and brought about coleoptile shortening and appearance of the first leaf, whereas pulsed FR of equal fluence was less effective. This suggested that the reactions were primarily of the high irradiance responses type, which are likely to be mediated by phyA'. The effects on protochlorophyllide biosynthesis and growth responses type were more pronounced in the phyB mutant than in the WT seedlings, which can be connected with the higher phyA' content in the phyB mutant and/or phyB interference with its action in WT seedlings. In the phyA mutant induction of Pchlide633 and Pchlide655 biosynthesis was observed under constant FR, indicating that phyC may be responsible for this effect.
17205876	Survey the prevalence of intestinal parasitic infections in 14 primary schools of Central Thailand. A cross sectional survey of the prevalence of intestinal parasitic infections in 14 primary schools of Central Thailand that included Ang Thong, Ayudthaya, and Suphanburi provinces was conducted One thousand and thirty seven children with age ranging from 3-12 years (540 males and 497 females) were examined for intestinal parasites by the formalin-ether concentration technique. The overall prevalence was 4.24%. The pathogenic parasites found were Giardia lamblia (1.25%), Enterobius vermicularis (0.19%), Trichuris trichiura and Hookworm (0.19% each), respectively. The common non-pathogenic protozoa found were Entamoeba coli (1.64%) and Endolimax nana (0.48%). The infection rate of Blastocystis hominis was 0.19%. Interestingly, the area studied which is low and flat and contains rice and water chestnut fields and small rivers, did not demonstrate Fasciolopsis buski as highly found in the past five decades. However, Parasittic infections are still public health problems in Thailand Close monitoring and control of parasitic infections is needed
17205969	A rapid decrease of the plant hormone ABA under submergence is thought to be a prerequisite for the enhanced elongation of submerged shoots of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Here, we report that the level of phaseic acid (PA), an oxidized form of ABA, increased with decreasing ABA level during submergence. The oxidation of ABA to PA is catalyzed by ABA 8'-hydroxylase, which is possibly encoded by three genes (OsABA8ox1, -2 and -3) in rice. The ABA 8'-hydroxylase activity was confirmed in microsomes from yeast expressing OsABA8ox1. OsABA8ox1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in onion cells was localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. The mRNA level of OsABA8ox1, but not the mRNA levels of other OsABA8ox genes, increased dramatically within 1 h after submergence. On the other hand, the mRNA levels of genes involved in ABA biosynthesis (OsZEP and OsNCEDs) decreased after 1-2 h of submergence. Treatment of aerobic seedlings with ethylene and its precursor, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC), rapidly induced the expression of OsABA8ox1, but the ethylene treatment did not strongly affect the expression of ABA biosynthetic genes. Moreover, pre-treatment with 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP), a potent inhibitor of ethylene action, partially suppressed induction of OsABA8ox1 expression under submergence. The ABA level was found to be negatively correlated with OsABA8ox1 expression under ACC or 1-MCP treatment. Together, these results indicate that the rapid decrease in ABA levels in submerged rice shoots is controlled partly by ethylene-induced expression of OsABA8ox1 and partly by ethylene-independent suppression of genes involved in the biosynthesis of ABA.
17206375	The putative raffinose synthase gene from rice was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. The enzyme displayed an optimum activity at 45 degrees C and pH 7.0, and a sulfhydryl group was required for its activity. The enzyme was specific for galactinol and p-nitrophenyl-alpha-D-galactoside as galactosyl donors, and sucrose, lactose, 4-beta-galactobiose, N-acetyl-D-lactosamine, trehalose and lacto-N-biose were recognized as galactosyl acceptors.
17206644	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) in the outpatient with chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a difficult but important challenge to recognize and treat. It is very helpful to have effective treatment approaches for IBS that are practical and use minimal medications. Because of the underlying chronic inflammation in IBD, IBS symptoms occur with increased frequency and severity, secondary to increased hypersensitivity to foods and beverages that stimulate the gastrointestinal tract. This paper discusses how to treat IBS in the IBD outpatient, with emphasis on using a food and beverage intolerance, avoidance diet. The adverse effects of many foods and beverages are amount dependent and can be delayed, additive, and cumulative. The specific types of foods and beverages that can induce IBS symptoms include milk and milk containing products; caffeine containing products; alcoholic beverages; fruits; fruit juices; spices; seasonings; diet beverages; diet foods; diet candies; diet gum; fast foods; condiments; fried foods; fatty foods; multigrain breads; sourdough breads; bagels; salads; salad dressings; vegetables; beans; red meats; gravies; spaghetti sauce; stews; nuts; popcorn; high fiber; and cookies, crackers, pretzels, cakes, and pies. The types of foods and beverages that are better tolerated include water; rice; plain pasta or noodles; baked or broiled potatoes; white breads; plain fish, chicken, turkey, or ham; eggs; dry cereals; soy or rice based products; peas; applesauce; cantaloupe; watermelon; fruit cocktail; margarine; jams; jellies; and peanut butter. Handouts that were developed based upon what worsens or helps IBS symptoms in patients are included to help patients learn which foods and beverages to avoid and which are better tolerated.
17207259	Transgenic rice plants expressing 7Crp peptide were generated by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The 7Crp peptide is the hybrid peptide of seven major human T-cell epitopes derived from Japanese cedar pollen allergens Cry j 1 and Cry j 2. When the 7Crp gene was expressed under the control of the rice AGPase large subunit or maize ubiquitin-1 promoters, it could only be detected in the endosperm of rice seed, although high levels of RNA transcript were observed in the leaf, stem, and seed embryo. It was demonstrated by confocal and electron microscopy analysis that the 7Crp peptide was mainly localized in the endoplasmic reticulum-derived protein bodies, designated protein body I (PB-I). Our results indicate that rice endosperm tissue has advantage over other tissues as a production platform for foreign recombinant proteins.
17207619	Response surface methodology (RSM) was used to evaluate the effects of fermentation parameters for cellulase production by Trichoderma reesei QM9414 and T. reesei MCG77 in solid-state fermentation using rice bran as substrate. Initial pH, moisture content and temperature were optimized using filter paper activity (FPA) as response. Statistical analysis of the results for T. reesei QM9414 showed that only moisture content had significant effect on cellulase activity and had a linear effect on enzyme activity (maximum enzyme activities were obtained at 70% moisture content). The results for T. reesei MCG77 showed that temperature and moisture content were the most significant parameters for cellulase activity. The optimum cellulase production was in the temperature range of 25-30 degrees C and moisture content between 55% and 70%. After the optimization, the FPA in T. reesei MCG77 was increased by 2.5 folds compared to that of T. reesei QM9414.
17207840	Field monitoring was practiced from 2001 to 2003 to evaluate the input (irrigation, atmospheric deposition, and fertilizer application) and the output (uptake and accumulation into the above-ground biomass of rice plants and leaching) of cadmium (Cd) in a contaminated paddy field in Tokyo. The cadmium concentrations of irrigated water, open-bulk precipitation, soil solution (leaching water), rice plants collected at the harvesting stage and the chemical fertilizer and the cow manure compost applied were determined. The Cd flux of each factor was calculated by multiplying the Cd concentration by the volume or mass of the media. The annual input-output balance of Cd in the paddy field in 2001 and 2002 was estimated to be -5.44 [corrected] g ha(-1) and -2.01 [corrected] g ha(-1), respectively, indicating the loss of Cd from the paddy field, although the losses accounted for only 0.24% [corrected] and 0.089% [corrected] of the total amount of Cd in the ploughed layer soil in 2001 and 2002, respectively. Among the factors involved, the input from fertilizers (including manure compost) and the output due to the uptake by rice plants played a major role in the balance. The former largely depended on the types and amounts of fertilizers applied, and the latter on the water management practices in the paddy field, such as flooding and drainage of the surface water.
17207895	[Trp5]-oryzatensin(5-9) (WPLPR), an agonist peptide for complement C3a receptor, has been designed based on the C-terminal region of ileum-contracting peptide oryzatensin derived from rice protein. We previously reported that WPLPR has anti-analgesic and anti-amnesic activities after central or oral administration. In this study, we found a novel function of WPLPR on food intake. WPLPR suppressed food intake after intracerebroventricular or intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration at a dose of 3-30 nmol/mouse or 30-300 mg/kg, respectively, in fasted mice. Orally administered WPLPR at a dose of 300 mg/kg also decreased food intake. WPLPR decreased gastric emptying after i.p. injection at a dose of 300 mg/kg. The anorexigenic activity of WPLPR was blocked by cyclooxygenase inhibitor or antagonist for prostaglandin (PG) E receptor EP4 subtype. These results suggest that WPLPR decreases food intake through PGE2 production followed by EP4 receptor activation.
17207982	The Methylobacterium sp. strain NPFM-SB3, isolated from Sesbania rostrata stem nodules possessed nitrogenase activity and nodA genes. Pure culture of NPFM-SB3 strain produced indole-3-acetic acid, cytokinins and on inoculation to rice plants resulted in numerous lateral roots. Inoculation of synthetic auxins 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid, naphthalene acetic acid or flavonoids naringenin and dihydroxy-4-methoxyisoflavone individually or to bacterial inoculated rice seedlings improved the plant growth and lateral root formation under hydroponic condition. The formation of nodule-like structure and nitrogenase activity which is purely auxin dependent was observed in 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid treatments to Methylobacterium sp. NPFM-SB3 inoculated rice plants. The rhizobia entered through fissures formed due to lateral root emergence and spread intercellularly in the nodular structures concluded that the effect of 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid treatment for rice seedlings grown under gnotobiotic conditions is to create a niche in which these bacteria can grow.
17207983	Influence of repeated application of the nitrification inhibitor dicyandiamide (DCD), on CH(4) production and associated microflora in a flooded alluvial soil, was investigated in a laboratory incubation study. Application of DCD at the time of soil incubation resulted in a substantial reduction in CH(4) production (31% over that of untreated control). Second repeat application of DCD, on the contrary, annulled the inhibitory effect on CH(4) production, restoring it to the level of unamended soil. Application of the third dose of DCD maintained CH(4) production almost to the same extent as that of second application. The alleviation of the initial inhibitory effect of DCD on CH(4) production was linked to the enhanced degradation of DCD following its repeated application to the flooded soil. Admittedly, abatement of the initial inhibitory effect of DCD on CH(4) production in soil repeatedly amended with DCD was also related to the inhibition of CH(4)-oxidizing bacterial population and noticeable stimulation of heterotrophic bacterial population. Results suggest that repeat application of DCD with fertilizer-N to flooded rice soils might not be effective in controlling CH(4) production under field condition.
17207999	Waste activated sludge generated from a combined dairy and food processing industry wastewater treatment plant was evaluated for its potential to produce biodegradable plastic, poly beta-hydroxybutyric acid (PHB). Deproteinized jowar grain-based distillery spentwash yielded 42.3% PHB production (w/w), followed by filtered rice grain-based distillery spentwash (40% PHB) when used as substrates. Addition of di-ammonium hydrogen phosphate (DAHP) resulted in an increase in PHB production to 67% when raw rice grain-based spentwash was used. Same wastewater, after removal of suspended solids by filtration and with DAHP supplementation resulted in lower PHB production (57.9%). However, supplementing other wastes with DAHP led to a substantial decrease in PHB content in comparison to what was observed in the absence of DAHP.
17208326	Imprisonment often improves metabolic control in prisoners with type 2 diabetes; however, the reasons for this remain unclear. Here, we investigated the metabolic control of male prisoners with type 2 diabetes in Japan. Retrospective analysis of 4385 medical charts of male prisoners in Fukushima Prison from 1998 to 2004 revealed 109 prisoners (all Asian) with type 2 diabetes (mean+/-S.D.: 51+/-10 years). All were followed up during their imprisonment (14+/-10 months). During imprisonment, mean fasting plasma glucose and hemoglobin Alc (HbA1c) levels dramatically decreased from 184+/-74 to 113+/-38mg/dl (p<0.001) and 8.4+/-2.1 to 5.9+/-1.2% (p<0.001), respectively. In addition, 5 of 18 prisoners (28%) treated with insulin and 17 of 34 (50%) treated with oral hypoglycemic agents were able to discontinue their treatment and maintain good metabolic control. Most prisoners in Japanese prisons work 8h a day 5 days a week, consuming a high dietary fiber diet including boiled rice with barley, "Mugimeshi". These findings suggest that a well-regulated lifestyle and long-term intake of high dietary fiber may have beneficial effects on metabolic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.
17208453	Rice carbonic anhydrase (CA) was successfully expressed as a glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein in an Escherichia coli expression system. The optimal induction concentration of IPTG and growth temperature was found to be 1.0mM and 28 degrees C. To obtain milligram amounts of homogeneous active recombinant proteins, 150mM NaCl and Mg-ATP solution were used during the purification procedures. After improving the conditions of expression and the purification procedures, final yield of recombinant proteins was 1.3mg/g wet cell weight after enzymatic cleavage of the GST tag, and the molecular weight was about 29kDa. The purified protein had CO(2) hydration activity, and had no detectable esterase activity in vitro. Addition of zinc improved the CO(2) hydration activity of the rice CA produced by E. coli. The effects of acetazolamide (AZ) and the anions N3-, NO3-, I(-), Br(-), and Cl(-) on CO(2) hydration activity of CA were studied. AZ and N3- were found to be strong inhibitors of rice CA. The inhibitory activity of AZ and ions was in the order AZ>N3->NO3->I(-)>Br(-)>Cl(-).
17208508	Submergence of rice (Oryza sativa) by flash flooding is a major constraint to rice production in Asia. Rice cultivars vary in their capacity to tolerate complete submergence; quantitative trait loci analyses have revealed that a large portion of this variation in submergence tolerance can be explained by one locus (Sub1) on chromosome 9. Two recently published papers (Takeshi Fukao et al. and Kenong Xu et al.) present evidence that a transcription factor belonging to the B-2 subgroup of the ethylene response factors (ERFs)/ethylene-responsive element binding proteins (EREBPs)/apetala 2-like proteins (AP2) within the Sub1 locus determines submergence tolerance in rice. These genes control highly conserved hormonal, physiological and developmental processes that determine the rate of elongation when submerged.
17209124	We recently identified multivesicular bodies (MVBs) as prevacuolar compartments (PVCs) in the secretory and endocytic pathways to the lytic vacuole in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells. Secretory carrier membrane proteins (SCAMPs) are post-Golgi, integral membrane proteins mediating endocytosis in animal cells. To define the endocytic pathway in plants, we cloned the rice (Oryza sativa) homolog of animal SCAMP1 and generated transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells expressing yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-SCAMP1 or SCAMP1-YFP fusions. Confocal immunofluorescence and immunogold electron microscopy studies demonstrated that YFP-SCAMP1 fusions and native SCAMP1 localize to the plasma membrane and mobile structures in the cytoplasm of transgenic BY-2 cells. Drug treatments and confocal immunofluorescence studies demonstrated that the punctate cytosolic organelles labeled by YFP-SCAMP1 or SCAMP1 were distinct from the Golgi apparatus and PVCs. SCAMP1-labeled organelles may represent an early endosome because the internalized endocytic markers FM4-64 and AM4-64 reached these organelles before PVCs. In addition, wortmannin caused the redistribution of SCAMP1 from the early endosomes to PVCs, probably as a result of fusions between the two compartments. Immunogold electron microscopy with high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted samples identified the SCAMP1-positive organelles as tubular-vesicular structures at the trans-Golgi with clathrin coats. These early endosomal compartments resemble the previously described partially coated reticulum and trans-Golgi network in plant cells.
17209126	Angiosperm embryo sac development begins with a phase of free nuclear division followed by cellularization and differentiation of cell types. The indeterminate gametophyte1 (ig1) gene of maize (Zea mays) restricts the proliferative phase of female gametophyte development. ig1 mutant female gametophytes have a prolonged phase of free nuclear divisions leading to a variety of embryo sac abnormalities, including extra egg cells, extra polar nuclei, and extra synergids. Positional cloning of ig1 was performed based on the genome sequence of the orthologous region in rice. ig1 encodes a LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES domain protein with high similarity to ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2 of Arabidopsis thaliana. A second mutant allele of ig1 was identified in a noncomplementation screen using active Mutator transposable element lines. Homozygous ig1 mutants have abnormal leaf morphology as well as abnormal embryo sac development. Affected leaves have disrupted abaxial-adaxial polarity and fail to repress the expression of meristem-specific knotted-like homeobox (knox) genes in leaf primordia, causing a proliferative, stem cell identity to persist in these cells. Despite the superficial similarity of ig1-O leaves and embryo sacs, ectopic knox gene expression cannot be detected in ig1-O embryo sacs.
17209383	With hybrid rice cultivar Liangyou Peijiu as test material, this paper studied its biological characteristics and water use efficiency under effects of four irrigation modes. Compared with continuous flooding irrigation, intermittent irrigation increased the leaf area index, photosynthetic rate and water use efficiency, and decreased the leaf transpiration rate. Semi-dry cultivation increased the leaf water use efficiency, while dry cultivation decreased the leaf area index, photosynthetic rate, and water use efficiency, and induced the leaf senescence in later growth period. Under intermittent irrigation, semi-dry cultivation and dry cultivation, the water consumption of paddy rice was 8. 75% , 17. 96% and 29. 69% lower, and its grain yield was 24. 02% higher but 5. 07% and 38. 93% lower than that under continuous flooding irrigation, respectively. The water use efficiency was the highest under intermittent irrigation, relatively high under semi-dry cultivation, but relatively low under continuous flooding irrigation and dry cultivation. Compared with other irrigation modes, intermittent irrigation increased the milled rice rate, head rice rate and grain length, while decreased the chalky rice and chalkiness. With the reduction of water consumption, the amylose content of rice grain decreased, but the gel consistency and protein content increased. Intermittent irrigation could be a favorable irrigation mode for the paddy rice planting in Southern China.
17209389	A fertilization experiment with 150 kg N x hm(-2), 250 kg N xhm(-2) and 350 kg N x hm(-2) was conducted on the free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) platform at Wuxi of Jiangsu Province in 2001-2003, aimed to build a simulation model of dry matter accumulation and allocation of rice in FACE. Physiological development time and CO2 concentration were selected as the driving factor and the main affecting factor, respectively, and nitrogen application rate was introduced as the factor adjusting the dry matter accumulation and allocation in green leaf, stem and panicle. The results showed that with the increase of atmospheric CO2 concentration, the dry matter accumulation in above-ground part of rice increased remarkably, but the allocation index dropped in green leaf, changed little in panicle, while increased in stem at early stage and equaled to the CK at last. The model was tested with different experimental data, and the results indicated that the model had high fitting degree and preferable applicability and predictability.
17209390	Based on the determination of dry matter and caloric value, this paper studied the characteristics of energy accumulation and the dynamics of caloric value in the yield-forming process of rice cultivars Shanyou 63 (three-line hybrid rice) , Liangyou 2186 (two-line hybrid rice) , and IR64 (conventional rice). The results showed that at fully grain-maturing stage, the amount of dry matter in Shanyou 63, Liangyou 2186 and IR64 was 1926. 38 g x m(2), 1933.80 g x m(-2) and 1842.30 g x m(-2), and that of accumulated energy was 31,137.05 kJ x m(-2) 31 060.63 kJ x m(-2) and 30 454.89 kJ x m(-2) , respectively, showing no significant difference among the cultivars. In the process of grain filling, the apparent transformation ratio of energy in Shanyou 63, Liangyou 2186 and IR64 was about 38. 95% , 28. 38% and 32. 66% , respectively, implying that the energy flow in Shanyou 63 and IR 64 was smoother than that in Liangyou 2186, and the output of energy from stem to the sink of grain was blocked in Liangyou 2186. The ratio of energy partitioning to the sink of grain was 53. 03% , 46. 43% and 50. 11% for Shanyou 63, Liangyou 2186 and IR64, respectively, showing the energy partitioning heterosis in three-line hybrid rice Shanyou 63. As for the caloric value, it had no significant difference among the three cultivars, but decreased in the order of leaf> grain > sheath > stem > root, ranging from 16.81-17.25 kJ x g(-1) , 15.89-16.54 kJ x g (-1) 14.33-15.49 kJ x g(-1) , 14.23-15.15 kJ x g , and 11.51-13.25 kJ x g(-1), respectively. It was also shown that there was a significant positive correlation of caloric value with carbon content, chlorophyll a content, and nitrogen content in rice plant, with the determination coefficient R(2) being 0.609, 0.471 and 0.485, respectively.
17209398	With rice varieties Jiahua 1 (resistant to the white backed plant hopper Sogatella furcifera) and Shanyou 63 (susceptible) as test materials, this paper studied the effects of different insecticide treatments on the pest population and quality and yield of rice grain, and evaluated their actual economic benefits (AEB). The results indicated that in the control plot, the peak density of S. furcifera on Jiahua 1 was only 1/10 of that on Shanyou 63. Throughout the whole rice growth period, the S. furcifera population on Jiahua 1 kept below economic injury level, while Shanyou 63 suffered heavy infestation by S. furcifera. The spider density in the control plot was 3 -7 times higher than that in the plots treated with insecticide following farmers' practice. No application of insecticide decreased the grain yield of Jiahua 1 and Shanyou 63 by 11. 8% and 43.4% , respectively. Compared with the control, spraying with insecticide one time decreased the AEB of Jiahua 1 and Shanyou 63 by 0.9% - 2.6% and 2.6% - 4.7% , respectively. Without insecticide application, the AEB of Shanyou 63 decreased by 32.9% - 36.1% , while that of Jiahua 1 increased by 2.2% - 4.8%. The income of planting Jiahua 1 without insecticide application was 9403 yuan x hm(-2) , which was remarkably higher than that (8632 yuan hm (-2)) of Shanyou 63 protected by spraying insecticide 3 times. It was worthwhile to point out that insecticide treatment did not affect the processing of rice grain and its commercial and edible quality, but decreased its protein content of Jiahua 1 and Shanyou 63.
17209400	In a water culture experiment with rice and rape, different concentrations of chloride or EDTA were added to study the effects of chlorine ion and EDTA complexation on the uptake of cadmium by the plants. The results showed that the cadmium concentration in the shoots and roots of test plants decreased with increasing concentration of chloride or EDTA. With the increase of Cl- concentration, the cadmium content in rice shoot and root decreased from 212.2 mg x kg (-1) and 345. 1 mg x kg - to 34.1 mg x kg(-1) and 209.1 mg x kg(-1) , respectively. EDTA addition decreased the cadmium content in rice shoot and root from 212.2 mg x kg (-1) and 345.2 mg x kg(-1) to 50.0 mg x kg(-1) and 4.2 mg x kg(-1) , and that in rape shoot and root from 86.7 mg x kg(-1) and 149. 2 mg x kg(-1) to 22.2 mg x kg (-1) and 12. 3 mg x kg(-1), respectively. EDTA also affected the cadmium translocation from root to shoot. The complexation of Cl- or EDTA with cadmium reduced the uptake of Cd by plants, and the effect of EDTA was more obvious than that of Cl -.
17210233	Despite a wide distribution of transposable elements (TEs) in the genomes of higher eukaryotes, much of their evolutionary significance remains unclear. Recent studies have indicated that TEs are involved with biological processes such as gene regulation and the generation of new exons in mammals. In addition, the completion of the genome sequencings in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa has permitted scientist to describe a genome-wide overview in plants. In this study, we examined the positions of TEs in the genome of O. sativa. Although we found that more than 10% of the structural genes contained TEs, they were underrepresented in exons compared with non-exonic regions. TEs also appeared to be inserted preferentially in 3'-untranslated regions in exons. These results suggested that purifying selection against TE insertion has played a major role during evolution. Moreover, our comparison of the numbers of TEs in the protein-coding regions between single copy genes and duplicate genes showed that TEs were more frequent in duplicate than single copy genes. This observation indicated that gene duplication events created a large number of functionally redundant genes. Subsequently, many of them were destroyed by TEs because the redundant copies were released from purifying selection. Another biological role of TEs was found to be the recruitment of new exons. We found that approximately 2% of protein-coding genes contained TEs in their coding regions. Insertion of TEs in genic regions may have the potential to be an evolutionary driving force for the creation of new biological functions.
17210918	Studies of flower development in core eudicot species have established a central role for B class MADS-box genes in specifying petal and stamen identities. Similarly in maize and rice, B class genes are essential for lodicule and stamen specification, suggesting homology of petals and lodicules and conservation of B class gene activity across angiosperms. However, lodicules are grass-specific organs with a morphology distinct from petals, thus their true homology to eudicot and nongrass monocot floral organs has been a topic of debate. To understand the relationship of lodicules to the sterile floral organs of nongrass monocots we have isolated and observed the expression of B class genes from a basal grass Streptochaeta that diverged before the evolution of lodicules, as well as the outgroups Joinvillea and Elegia, which have a typical monocot floral plan. Our results support a conserved role for B function genes across the angiosperms and provide additional evidence linking the evolution of lodicules and second whorl tepal/petals of monocots. The expression data and morphological analysis suggest that the function of B class genes should be broadly interpreted as required for differentiation of a distinct second floral whorl as opposed to specifying petal identity per se.
17210932	We present here the annotation of the complete genome of rice Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica cultivar Nipponbare. All functional annotations for proteins and non-protein-coding RNA (npRNA) candidates were manually curated. Functions were identified or inferred in 19,969 (70%) of the proteins, and 131 possible npRNAs (including 58 antisense transcripts) were found. Almost 5000 annotated protein-coding genes were found to be disrupted in insertional mutant lines, which will accelerate future experimental validation of the annotations. The rice loci were determined by using cDNA sequences obtained from rice and other representative cereals. Our conservative estimate based on these loci and an extrapolation suggested that the gene number of rice is approximately 32,000, which is smaller than previous estimates. We conducted comparative analyses between rice and Arabidopsis thaliana and found that both genomes possessed several lineage-specific genes, which might account for the observed differences between these species, while they had similar sets of predicted functional domains among the protein sequences. A system to control translational efficiency seems to be conserved across large evolutionary distances. Moreover, the evolutionary process of protein-coding genes was examined. Our results suggest that natural selection may have played a role for duplicated genes in both species, so that duplication was suppressed or favored in a manner that depended on the function of a gene.
17211133	Using an 11.7-Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner in 10-d-old rat pups we report on the evolution of injury over 28 d in a model of neonatal stroke (transient filament middle cerebral artery occlusion, tfMCAO) and a model of hypoxic-ischemic injury (Rice-Vannucci model, RVM). In both models, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) was more sensitive in the early detection of ischemia than T2-weighted imaging (T2WI). Injury volumes in both models were greater on d 1 for DWI and d 3 for T2WI, decreased over time and by d 28 T2WI injury volumes (tfMCAO 10.3% of ipsilateral hemisphere; RVM 23.9%) were definable. The distribution of injury with tfMCAO was confined to the vascular territory of the middle cerebral artery and a definable core and penumbra evolved over time. Ischemic injury in the RVM was more generalized and greater in cortical regions. Contralateral hemispheric involvement was only observed in the RVM. Our findings demonstrate that high-field MRI over extended periods of time is possible in a small animal model of neonatal brain injury and that the tfMCAO model should be used for studies of neonatal stroke and that the RVM does not reflect the vascular distribution of injury seen with focal ischemia.
17211473	Brown rice is a staple dietary constituent in Asia, whereas rice consumed in the Western world is generally white, obtained from brown rice by removal of the bran. We tested the hypothesis that rice bran interferes with development of tumours in TAg, TRansgenic Adenocarcinoma of the Mouse Prostate (TRAMP) or Apc(Min) mice, genetic models of mammary, prostate and intestinal carcinogenesis, respectively. Mice received rice bran (30%) in AIN-93G diet throughout their post-weaning lifespan. In TAg and TRAMP mice, rice bran did not affect carcinoma development. In TRAMP or wild-type C57Bl6/J mice, dietary rice bran increased kidney weight by 18 and 20%, respectively. Consumption of rice bran reduced numbers of intestinal adenomas in Apc(Min) mice by 51% (P<0.01), compared to mice on control diet. In parallel, dietary rice bran decreased intestinal haemorrhage in these mice, as reflected by increased haematocrit. At 10% in the diet, rice bran did not significantly retard Apc(Min) adenoma development. Likewise, low-fibre rice bran (30% in the diet) did not affect intestinal carcinogenesis, suggesting that the fibrous constituents of the bran mediate chemopreventive efficacy. The results suggest that rice bran might be beneficially evaluated as a putative chemopreventive intervention in humans with intestinal polyps.
17212353	Two full-length P450 cDNAs, CYP6AX1 and CYP6AY1, were cloned from the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens Stl (Homoptera: Delphacidae). Both CYP6AX1 and CYP6AY1 are typical microsomal P450s and their deduced amino acid sequences share common characteristics with other members of the insect P450 CYP6 family. CYP6AX1 and CYP6AY1 show the highest percent identity (36%) of amino acid to each other; both of them have 31-33% amino acid identity with CYP6B1 from Papilio polyxenes (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae), CYP6B4 from Papilio glaucus (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae), and CYP6B8 from Helicoverpa zea (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). Phylogenetic analysis showed the clustering of CYP6AX1 and CYP6AY1 was in the clade including CYP6AE1 from Depressaria pastinacella (Lepidoptera: Oecophoridae) and the CYP6B family members from Helicoverpa and Papilio species. Northern blot analysis revealed that both of the P450s were induced by the resistant rice variety B5 (Oryza sativa L), and CYP6AY1 was expressed at a higher level than CYP6AX1. The results suggest that more than one P450s are likely involved in metabolism of rice allelochemicals and that they are possibly important components in adaptation of Nilaparvata lugens to host rice. Arch. Insect Biochem.
17213316	An assemblage of charred plant remains collected from 26 sites in the Yiluo valley of North China as part of an archaeological survey spans the period from the sixth millennium to 1300 calibrated calendrical years (cal) B.C. The plant remains document a long sequence of crops, weeds, and other plants in the country. The results also demonstrate the effectiveness of sediment sampling as part of an archaeological survey. Ten accelerator mass spectrometer (AMS) radiocarbon dates on crop remains inform an assessment of the sequence of agricultural development in the region. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica subsp. italica) was grown during the Early Neolithic period and was the principal crop for at least four millennia. Broomcorn millet (Panicum miliaceum) was significantly less important throughout the sequence. Rice (Oryza sativa) was introduced by 3000 cal B.C. but apparently was not an important local crop. Wheat became a significant crop between 1600 and 1300 cal B.C. The weed flora diversified through time and were dominated by annual grasses, some of which were probably fodder for domesticated animals. The North China farming tradition that emphasized dry crops (millets, wheat, and legumes) with some rice appears to have been established at the latest by the Early Shang (Erligang; 1600-1300 B.C.) period.
17213701	Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Gallinarum biovar Gallinarum is the causative agent of fowl typhoid in chickens, outbreaks of which have devastated poultry populations in Korea since 1992. In order to identify genetic differences among S. Gallinarum isolates, bacteria were examined using the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) method. Of 13 arbitrary primers screened initially, the primer designated as universal rice primer-6 (URP-6) was selected for subsequent typing assays because it produced a distinctive and reproducible DNA fingerprint for a S. Gallinarum reference strain. URP-6-based RAPD analysis assigned 30 S. Gallinarum isolates into 6 types, with 26 isolates (86.6%) belonging to 2 major RAPD types. The distribution of virulence genes in S. Gallinarum isolates was examined by Southern hybridization. All tested isolates had the invasion gene, invA, the virulence plasmid gene, spvB, and the S. Enteritidis fimbrial gene, sefC. The distribution of virulence genes among S. Gallinarum isolates did not correlate with any specific RAPD type.
17213902	A number of mutations affecting seed development in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) have been known for many years; however, to date, no research has been reported that elucidates the molecular structure of the causal genes. As a first step, we initiated the linkage mapping of the two shrunken endosperm genes seg8 and sex1 using microsatellite markers. The recessive gene seg8 was mapped in the centromeric region of chromosome 7H to a 4.6 cM interval flanked by markers GBM1516 and Bmag341. The recessive sex1 gene showed xenia effects and was located in the centromeric region of barley chromosome 6H, which is in accordance to the previously reported chromosomal location in the classical linkage map. It was flanked by markers GBM5012 and GBM1063 in a 4.2 cM interval. EST-derived microsatellite markers were used to establish the syntenic relationships to the genomic rice sequences. Two orthologous sites on rice chromosome 2 flanking a 4.1 Mb sequence had homology to the respective barley markers in the sex1 region. For the markers in the seg8 region orthologous sites on rice chromosome 6 were detected.
17215059	Ammonium is a central intermediate in the nitrogen metabolism of plants. We have previously shown that methyl jasmonate (MJ) not only increases the content of H(2)O(2), but also causes NH(4)(+) accumulation in rice leaves. More recently, H(2)O(2) is thought to constitute a general signal molecule participating in the recognition of and the response to stress factors. In this study, we examined the role of H(2)O(2) as a link between MJ and subsequent NH(4)(+) accumulation in detached rice leaves. MJ treatment resulted in an accumulation of NH(4)(+) in detached rice leaves, which was preceded by a decrease in the activity of glutamine synthetase (GS) and an increase in the specific activities of protease and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL). GS, PAL, and protease appear to be the enzymes responsible for the accumulation of NH(4)(+) in MJ-treated detached rice leaves. Dimethylthiourea (DMTU), a chemical trap for H(2)O(2), was observed to be effective in inhibiting MJ-induced NH(4)(+) accumulation in detached rice leaves. Scavengers of free radicals (sodium benzoate, SB, and glutathione, GSH), nitric oxide donor (N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone, PBN), the inhibitors of NADPH oxidase (diphenyleneiodonium chloride, DPI, and imidazole, IMD), and inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (wortmannin, WM, and LY 294002, LY), which have previously been shown to prevent MJ-induced H(2)O(2) production in detached rice leaves, inhibited MJ-induced NH(4)(+) accumulation. Similarly, changes in enzymes responsible for NH(4)(+) accumulation induced by MJ were observed to be inhibited by DMTU, SB, GSH, PBN DPI, IMD, WM, or LY. Seedlings of rice cultivar Taichung Native 1 (TN1) are jasmonic acid (JA)-sensitive and those of cultivar Tainung 67 (TNG67) are JA-insensitive. On treatment with JA, H(2)O(2) accumulated in the leaves of TN1 seedlings but not in the leaves of TNG67. Ethylene action inhibitor, silver thiosulfate, was observed to inhibit MJ- and abscisic acid-induced accumulation of NH(4)(+) and changes in enzymes responsible for NH(4)(+) accumulation in detached rice leaves, suggesting that the action of MJ and ABA is ethylene dependent.
17216490	Members of the YABBY gene family have a general role that promotes abaxial cell fate in a model eudicot, Arabidopsis thaliana. To understand the function of YABBY genes in monocots, we have isolated all YABBY genes in Oryza sativa (rice), and revealed the spatial and temporal expression pattern of one of these genes, OsYABBY1. In rice, eight YABBY genes constitute a small gene family and are classified into four groups according to sequence similarity, exon-intron structure, and organ-specific expression patterns. OsYABBY1 shows unique spatial expression patterns that have not previously been reported for other YABBY genes, so far. OsYABBY1 is expressed in putative precursor cells of both the mestome sheath in the large vascular bundle and the abaxial sclerenchyma in the leaves. In the flower, OsYABBY1 is specifically expressed in the palea and lemma from their inception, and is confined to several cell layers of these organs in the later developmental stages. The OsYABBY1-expressing domains are closely associated with cells that subsequently differentiate into sclerenchymatous cells. These findings suggest that the function of OsYABBY1 is involved in regulating the differentiation of a few specific cell types and is unrelated to polar regulation of lateral organ development.
17216516	Recent genomic projects reveal that about half of the gene repertoire in plant genomes is made up by multigene families. In this paper, a set of structural and phylogenetic analyses have been applied to compare the differently sized nicotianamine synthase (NAS) gene families in barley and rice. Nicotianamine acts as a chelator of iron and other heavy metals and plays a key role in uptake, phloem transport and cytoplasmic distribution of iron, challenging efforts for the breeding of iron-efficient crop plants. Nine barley NAS genes have been mapped, and co-linearity of flanking genes in barley and rice was determined. The combined analyses reveal that the NAS multigene family members in barley originated through at least one duplication event that occurred before the divergence of rice and barley. Additional duplications appear to have occurred within each of the species. Although we detected no evidence for positive selection of recently duplicated genes within species, codon-based tests revealed evidence for positive selection having contributed to the divergence of some amino acids. The integrated comparative and phylogenetic analysis improved our current view of NAS gene family evolution, might facilitate the functional characterization of individual members and is applicable to other multigene families.
17216574	The aim of this study was to investigate the protective action of rice extract on ethanol-induced mucosal damage in vivo and wound healing of epithelial cells in vitro. Also, the effect of rice extract on gastric mucosal prostaglandin E(2) level, HSP72 expression, gastric acid secretion, and contribution of vanilloid receptor-mediated action was studied. In addition, using cultured gastric mucosal cells (RGM-1), the effect of rice extract on cytoprotection and wound healing of epithelial cells was evaluated. Rice extract significantly reduced gastric mucosal damage produced by ethanol in vivo, and heat treatment (80 degrees C, 3 min) of this agent did not alter its protective effect. Rice extract also protected RGM-1 from ethanol-induced damage in a dose-dependent manner. Rice extract accelerated wound healing of gastric epithelial cells. Our results demonstrate that rice extract could be an alternative ulcer treatment that provides cytoprotection and enhancement of wound healing not dependent on acid secretion, prostaglandin E(2) level, HSP72 expression, or vanilloid receptors.
17216976	There are two wastewater primary treatment plants in Alexandria (west and east). The produced primary sludge is mechanically dewatered and transported to sludge disposal site 9N where composting is carried out. However, prior to 1970, composting played a very minor role in sludge or solid wastes treatment because of greatly unfavorable balance between its economics and those of the principal competing option, namely landfill disposal. This study aims at monitoring and evaluating the composting process of demitted sludge produced from Alexandria wastewater treatment plants. Ten batches of sludge were composted. During the composting process the batches were been investigated and followed up to 3 months. Representative samples (10 for each batch) were taken from these batches at the start of windrowing and after each turning (4-15 days) and were analyzed for physical; chemical; bacteriological; and parasitological characteristics, heavy metals, and plant nutrients. Results revealed that C/N ratio of the final compost product comply with the decree of the Minister of Agriculture No. 100 11967, while moisture, C%, and TKN did not. Heavy metals, faecal coliforms, and helminthes complied with the decree No. 222/2002 for the Minister of Housing, Utilities, and Urban Communities. Moisture had positive correlation with both C and VS and negative correlation with pH. Temperature had negative correlation with TKN. Both total and faecal coliforms had negative correlation with temperature and positive correlation with C, N, and VS. It is recommended to optimize the quality of the produced sludge compost by use bulking agent rich in carbon and nitrogen as Hay or Rice straw, instead of the matured sludge compost.
17217179	A procedure for the simultaneous determination of arsenic, selenium and mercury in foodstuffs has been developed. After a two-step microwave-assisted wet digestion in closed vessels, using concentrated nitric acid and hydrogen peroxide, the solution was analysed by inductively coupled plasma multichannel-based emission spectrometry using chemical vapour generation as the sample introduction system. All steps of the procedure, such as solid sample dissolution, pre-reduction to the suitable oxidation state, vapor generation, transport and atomization have been designed and optimised taking into account the concomitant presence of all the analytes considered. Temporal variation of analytical signals as well as interfering effects due to transition elements were also studied. Under the optimised operating conditions, the achieved detection limits for the simultaneous determination of arsenic, selenium and mercury in foodstuffs were 0.006, 0.023 and 0.018 microg g(-1), respectively, allowing their determination in real samples. Precision of the analytical procedure was 6.8% for arsenic, 5.2% for selenium and 7.7% for mercury (n=7). The accuracy and reliability of the method was verified by the analysis of both standard reference materials (rice flour and spinach leaves) and real samples (natural and Se-enriched rice).
17217471	Phosphomannomutase (PMM) catalyzes the interconversion of mannose-6-phosphate and mannose-1-phosphate. However, systematic molecular and functional investigations on PMM from higher plants have hitherto not been reported. In this work, PMM cDNAs were isolated from Arabidopsis, Nicotiana benthamiana, soybean, tomato, rice and wheat. Amino acid sequence comparisons indicated that plant PMM proteins exhibited significant identity to their fungal and mammalian orthologs. In line with the similarity in primary structure, plant PMM complemented the sec53-6 temperature sensitive mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Histidine-tagged Arabidopsis PMM (AtPMM) purified from Escherichia coli converted mannose-1-phosphate into mannose-6-phosphate and glucose-1-phosphate into glucose-6-phosphate, with the former reaction being more efficient than the latter one. In Arabidopsis and N. benthamiana, PMM was constitutively expressed in both vegetative and reproductive organs. Reducing the PMM expression level through virus-induced gene silencing caused a substantial decrease in ascorbic acid (AsA) content in N. benthamiana leaves. Conversely, raising the PMM expression level in N. benthamiana using viral-vector-mediated ectopic expression led to a 20-50% increase in AsA content. Consistent with this finding, transgenic expression of an AtPMM-GFP fusion protein in Arabidopsis also increased AsA content by 25-33%. Collectively, this study improves our understanding on the molecular and functional properties of plant PMM and provides genetic evidence on the involvement of PMM in the biosynthesis of AsA in Arabidopsis and N. benthamiana plants.
17217561	The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of dietary supplementation with the Driselase-treated fraction (DF) of rice bran and ferulic acid (FA) on hypertension and glucose and lipid metabolism in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). Male SHRSP at 4 weeks of age were divided into three groups, and for 8 weeks were fed (1) a control diet based on AIN-93M, (2) a DF of rice bran-supplemented diet at 60 g/kg and (3) an FA-supplemented diet at 0.01 g/kg. Means and standard errors were calculated and the data were tested by one-way ANOVA followed by a least significance difference test. The results showed that both the DF and FA diets significantly improved hypertension as well as glucose tolerance, plasma nitric oxide (NOx), urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine and other parameters. In particular, compared to the FA diet, the DF diet produced a significant improvement in urinary NOx, hepatic triacylglycerol and several mRNA expressions of metabolic parameters involved in glucose and lipid metabolisms. The results of the metabolic syndrome-related parameters obtained from this study suggest that the DF diet is more effective than the FA diet.
17218330	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphatases (MKPs) are negative regulators of MAPKs. In dicotyledons such as Arabidopsis and tobacco, MKPs have been shown to play pivotal roles in abiotic stress responses, hormone responses and microtubule organization. However, little is known about the role of MKPs in monocotyledons such as rice. Database searches identified five putative MKPs in rice. We investigated their expression in response to wounding, and found that the expression of OsMKP1 is rapidly induced by wounding. In this study, we functionally characterized the involvement of OsMKP1 in wound responses. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsMKP1 shows strong similarity to Arabidopsis AtMKP1 and tobacco NtMKP1. Moreover, OsMKP1 bound calmodulin in a manner similar to NtMKP1. To determine the biological function of OsMKP1, we obtained osmkp1, a loss-of-function mutant, in which retrotransposon Tos17 was inserted in the second exon of OsMKP1. Unlike the Arabidopsis atmkp1 loss-of-function mutant, which shows no abnormal phenotype without stimuli, osmkp1 showed a semi-dwarf phenotype. Exogenous supply of neither gibberellin nor brassinosteroid complemented the semi-dwarf phenotype of osmkp1. Activities of two stress-responsive MAPKs, OsMPK3 and OsMPK6, in osmkp1 were higher than those in the wild type both before and after wounding. Microarray analysis identified 13 up-regulated and eight down-regulated genes in osmkp1. Among the up-regulated genes, the expression of five genes showed clear responses to wounding, indicating that wound responses are constitutively activated in osmkp1. These results suggest that OsMKP1 is involved in the negative regulation of rice wound responses.
17218640	Varying degrees of reduction of genetic diversity in crops relative to their wild progenitors occurred during the process of domestication. Such information, however, has not been available for the Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) despite its importance as a staple food and a model organism. To reveal levels and patterns of nucleotide diversity and to elucidate the genetic relationship and demographic history of O. sativa and its close relatives (Oryza rufipogon and Oryza nivara), we investigated nucleotide diversity data from 10 unlinked nuclear loci in species-wide samples of these species. The results indicated that O. rufipogon and O. nivara possessed comparable levels of nucleotide variation ((sil) = 0.0077 approximately 0.0095) compared with the relatives of other crops. In contrast, nucleotide diversity of O. sativa was as low as (sil) = 0.0024 and even lower ((sil) = 0.0021 for indica and 0.0011 for japonica), if we consider the 2 subspecies separately. Overall, only 20-10% of the diversity in the wild species was retained in 2 subspecies of the cultivated rice (indica and japonica), respectively. Because statistic tests did not reject the assumption of neutrality for all 10 loci, we further used coalescent to simulate bottlenecks under various lengths and population sizes to better understand the domestication process. Consistent with the dramatic reduction in nucleotide diversity, we detected a severe domestication bottleneck and demonstrated that the sequence diversity currently found in the rice genome could be explained by a founding population of 1,500 individuals if the initial domestication event occurred over a 3,000-year period. Phylogenetic analyses revealed close genetic relationships and ambiguous species boundary of O. rufipogon and O. nivara, providing additional evidence to treat them as 2 ecotypes of a single species. Lowest linkage disequilibrium (LD) was found in the perennial O. rufipogon where the r(2) value dropped to a negligible level within 400 bp, and the highest in the japonica rice where LD extended to the entirely sequenced region (approximately 900 bp), implying that LD mapping by genome scans may not be feasible in wild rice due to the high density of markers needed.
17218960	To gain insights into the structure and function of the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genomes, we identified 278 ESTs related to abiotic stress (cold, heat, drought, salinity, and aluminum) from 7671 ESTs previously mapped to wheat chromosomes. Of the 278 abiotic stress related ESTs, 259 (811 loci) were assigned to chromosome deletion bins and analyzed for their distribution pattern among the 7 homoeologous chromosome groups. Distribution of abiotic stress related EST loci were not uniform throughout the different regions of the chromosomes of the 3 wheat genomes. Both the short and long arms of group 4 chromosomes showed a higher number of loci in their distal regions compared with proximal regions. Of the 811 loci, the number of mapped loci on the A, B, and D genomes were 258, 281, and 272, respectively. The highest number of abiotic stress related loci were found in homoeologous chromosome group 2 (142 loci) and the lowest number were found in group 6 (94 loci). When considering the genome-specific ESTs, the B genome showed the highest number of unique ESTs (7 loci), while none were found in the D genome. Similarly, considering homoeologous group-specific ESTs, group 2 showed the highest number with 16 unique ESTs (58 loci), followed by group 4 with 9 unique ESTs (33 loci). Many of the classified proteins fell into the biological process categories associated with metabolism, cell growth, and cell maintenance. Most of the mapped ESTs fell into the category of enzyme activity (28%), followed by binding activity (27%). Enzymes related to abiotic stress such as beta-galactosidase, peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and trehalose-6-phosphate synthase were identified. The comparison of stress-responsive ESTs with genomic sequences of rice (Oryza sativa L.) chromosomes revealed the complexities of colinearity. This bin map provides insight into the structural and functional details of wheat genomic regions in relation to abiotic stress.
17219102	During their reproductive stage, rice crops often are exposed to cold stress, which leads to sterility and reduced yields. To understand the cold response mechanism at that stage, we used an mRNA differential display method to isolate cold-responsive genes from pre-anthesis flowers. Approximately 5,000 transcripts were identified here, of which 123 were found to be displayed differentially between the control (30 degrees C) and cold-treated (12 degrees C) flowers. Among them, 26 were analyzed by northern analysis; 8 of those clones were confirmed as cold-responsive. OsLti6b, encoding a hydrophobic protein homologous to Arabidopsis RCI2, was analyzed in detail. RNA blot analysis revealed that its transcript is increased by cold, salt, drought, or ABA treatments. In situ hybridization indicated that this transcript is highly accumulated in the ovaries and stamens of cold-treated flowers, particularly in the anther walls and vascular tissues of the filaments. Over-expression of OsLti6b increased cold tolerance as revealed by seedling wilting rates and ion leakages of mature leaves, demonstrating that the extent of the tolerance correlates well with its expression level.
17220362	The dominant allergenic components of grass pollen are known by immunologists as group 1 allergens. These constitute a set of closely related proteins from the beta-expansin family and have been shown to have cell wall-loosening activity. Group 1 allergens may facilitate the penetration of pollen tubes through the grass stigma and style. In maize (Zea mays), group 1 allergens are divided into two classes, A and B. We have identified 15 genes encoding group 1 allergens in maize, 11 genes in class A and four genes in class B, as well as seven pseudogenes. The genes in class A can be divided by sequence relatedness into two complexes, whereas the genes in class B constitute a single complex. Most of the genes identified are represented in pollen-specific expressed sequence tag libraries and are under purifying selection, despite the presence of multiple copies that are nearly identical. Group 1 allergen genes are clustered in at least six different genomic locations. The single class B location and one of the class A locations show synteny with the rice (Oryza sativa) regions where orthologous genes are found. Both classes are expressed at high levels in mature pollen but at low levels in immature flowers. The set of genes encoding maize group 1 allergens is more complex than originally anticipated. If this situation is common in grasses, it may account for the large number of protein variants, or group 1 isoallergens, identified previously in turf grass pollen by immunologists.
17220363	The completion of the rice (Oryza sativa) genome draft has brought unprecedented opportunities for genomic studies of the world's most important food crop. Previous rice gene annotations have relied mainly on ab initio methods, which usually yield a high rate of false-positive predictions and give only limited information regarding alternative splicing in rice genes. Comparative approaches based on expressed sequence tags (ESTs) can compensate for the drawbacks of ab initio methods because they can simultaneously identify experimental data-supported genes and alternatively spliced transcripts. Furthermore, cross-species EST information can be used to not only offset the insufficiency of same-species ESTs but also derive evolutionary implications. In this study, we used ESTs from seven plant species, rice, wheat (Triticum aestivum), maize (Zea mays), barley (Hordeum vulgare), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), soybean (Glycine max), and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), to annotate the rice genome. We developed a plant genome annotation pipeline, Plant Gene and Alternatively Spliced Variant Annotator (PGAA). Using this approach, we identified 852 genes (931 isoforms) not annotated in other widely used databases (i.e. the Institute for Genomic Research, National Center for Biotechnology Information, and Rice Annotation Project) and found 87% of them supported by both rice and nonrice EST evidence. PGAA also identified more than 44,000 alternatively spliced events, of which approximately 20% are not observed in the other three annotations. These novel annotations represent rich opportunities for rice genome research, because the functions of most of our annotated genes are currently unknown. Also, in the PGAA annotation, the isoforms with non-rice-EST-supported exons are significantly enriched in transporter activity but significantly underrepresented in transcription regulator activity. We have also identified potential lineage-specific and conserved isoforms, which are important markers in evolutionary studies. The data and the Web-based interface, RiceViewer, are available for public access at http://RiceViewer.genomics.sinica.edu.tw/.
17220367	Although indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), the predominant auxin in plants, plays a critical role in various plant growth and developmental processes, its biosynthesis and regulation have not been clearly elucidated. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of IAA synthesis in rice (Oryza sativa), we identified seven YUCCA-like genes (named OsYUCCA1-7) in the rice genome. Plants overexpressing OsYUCCA1 exhibited increased IAA levels and characteristic auxin overproduction phenotypes, whereas plants expressing antisense OsYUCCA1 cDNA displayed defects that are similar to those of rice auxin-insensitive mutants. OsYUCCA1 was expressed in almost all of the organs tested, but its expression was restricted to discrete areas, including the tips of leaves, roots, and vascular tissues, where it overlapped with expression of a beta-glucuronidase reporter gene controlled by the auxin-responsive DR5 promoter. These observations are consistent with an important role for the rice enzyme OsYUCCA1 in IAA biosynthesis via the tryptophan-dependent pathway.
17221110	The purpose of this work is to assess the current, qualitative and quantitative alimentary consumption of patients detected with hiperglycemia in the "Detection of Diabetes in Suspect Cases Campaign" in Viosa, MG. 256 patients were detected with hiperglycemia in 2001; however, 156 (60.9%) were assessed in 2004. The remaining people were dead, had changed their address, did not accept to participate in the study or did not have diagnosed diabetes. The hiperglycemic patients answered an alimentary frequency questionnaire for assessing their dietary intake and their usual diet recall, both previously tested in pilot-population. The most daily consumed foods were vegetable oil (99%), bean (94%), rice (90%), artificial sweetener (80%), leaf vegetables (63%), milk (61%), and French bread (54%). Most of the patients said they avoid sugar, sugary foods and animal fats. The largest percentiles of nutrients inadequacy happened for energy (85%), fibers (87%), calcium (94%), carbohydrates (82%), monounsaturated fats (91%) and proteins (58%). These last three happened in relation to total energy intake values. The current data allowed us to know about the alimentary habits of these people and also to stimulate nutrition intakes, being useful to the nutritional counseling, suggesting specific orientations in order to provide a more appropriate feeding, contributing to better health conditions and well-being.
17221225	Elite indica rice cultivars were cotransformed with genes expressing a rice chitinase (chi11) and a thaumatin-like protein (tlp) conferring resistance to fungal pathogens and a serine-threonine kinase (Xa21) conferring bacterial blight resistance, through particle bombardment, with a view to pyramiding sheath blight and bacterial blight resistance. Molecular analyses of putative transgenic lines by polymerase chain reaction, Southern Blot hybridization, and Western Blotting revealed stable integration and expression of the transgenes in a few independent transgenic lines. Progeny analyses showed the stable inheritance of transgenes to their progeny. Coexpression of chitinase and thaumatin-like protein in the progenies of a transgenic Pusa Basmati1 line revealed an enhanced resistance to the sheath blight pathogen, Rhizoctonia solani, as compared to that in the lines expressing the individual genes. A transgenic Pusa Basmati1 line pyramided with chi11, tlp, and Xa21 showed an enhanced resistance to both sheath blight and bacterial blight.
17221232	A full-length cDNA gene, designated Oryza sativa chymotrypsin inhibitor-like 1 (OCPI1), was characterized in rice. The predicted protein of OCPI1 shows very high sequence identity to reported chymotrypsin inhibitors from various plant species. Northern-blot analysis showed that the expression of OCPI1 was strongly induced by dehydration stresses and abscisic acid (ABA). The expression of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of OCPI1 promoter transformed into rice was strongly induced by drought and salt stresses. Interestingly, strong dehydration stress-induced GUS activity was also detected in the transgenic rice containing the reverse sequence of OCPI1 promoter fused to GUS gene, suggesting of a bidirectional transcriptional activity in the OCPI1 promoter. OCPI1 gene was over-expressed in japonica cv. Zhonghua 11 and transgenic plants containing single copy of transgene were tested for drought resistance at reproductive stage. The positive transgenic plants (OCPI1 was over-expressed) had significantly higher grain yield and seed setting rate than the wild type and the negative transgenic control (no over-expression of the transgene) under the severe drought stress conditions, whereas the potential yield of transgenic plants under normal growth conditions was not affected. Chymotrypsin-inhibitor activity assay showed that the crude protein of the positive transgenic plants had stronger inhibitory activity than the negative control. Transgenic plants had less decrease of total proteins than the wild type under drought stress. Taken together, these data indicate that OCPI1 might potentially be useful in the genetic improvement of drought resistance in rice.
17221300	Species in the genus Oryza (Poaceae) contain 10 genomic types and are distributed in pan-tropics of the world. To explore phylogenetic relationships of Oryza species having the AA-genome, DNA sequences of the chloroplast trnL intron and trnL-trnF spacer, mitochondrial nad1 intron 2, and nuclear internal transcribed spacer were analyzed, based on materials from 6 cultivated (O. sativa and O. glaberrima) and 13 wild accessions, in addition to a CC-genome species (O. officinalis) that was used as an outgroup. Analyses of the combined sequence data set from different sources provide a much better resolution of the AA-genome species than the individual data set, indicating the limitation of a single gene in phylogenetic reconstruction. The phylogeny based on the combined data set demonstrated an apparent grouping of the AA-genome Oryza species that was well associated with their geographic origin, although the Australian O. meridionalis showed its affinity with the African species. The geographic pattern of the phylogenetic relationship was probably attributed to the frequent genetic exchange and introgression among the AA-genome species from the same continents. In addition, Asian cultivated rice O. sativa showed its close relation to O. rufipogon and O. nivara, whereas African cultivated rice O. glaberrima was closely linked to O. barthii and O. longistaminata, indicating the independent domestication of the two cultivated species in different geographic locations.
17222145	This report is part of a serial study applying stable isotope labelling to rice microcosms to track the utilization of recently photosynthesized carbon by active microbiota in the rhizosphere. The objective of the present study was to apply phospholipid fatty acid-based stable isotope probing (PLFA-SIP) to detect the spatial variation of active microorganisms associated with rhizosphere carbon flow. In total, 49 pulses of 13CO2 were applied to rice plants in a microcosm over a period of 7 days. Rhizosphere soil was separated from bulk soil by a root bag. Soil samples were taken from rhizosphere and bulk soil, and the bulk soil samples were further partitioned both vertically (up layer and down layer) and horizontally with increasing distance to the root bag. Incorporation of 13C into PLFAs sharply decreased with distance to the roots. The labelling of 16:1omega9, 18:1omega7, 18:1omega9, 18:2omega6,9 and i14:0 PLFAs was relatively stronger in the rhizosphere while that of i15:0 and i17:0 increased in the bulk soil. The microorganisms associated with 16:1omega9 were active in both up- and down-layer soils. The microorganisms represented by i14:0, 18:1omega7 and 18:2omega6,9 exhibited a relatively higher activity in up-layer soil, whereas those represented by i15:0 and i17:0 were more active in down-layer soil. These results suggest that in the rhizosphere Gram-negative and eukaryotic microorganisms were most actively assimilating root-derived C, whereas Gram-positive microorganisms became relatively more important in the bulk soil. The active populations apparently differed between up- and down-layer soil and in particular changed with distance to the roots, demonstrating systematic changes in the activity of the soil microbiota surrounding roots.
17223193	A bioassay with Chironomus riparius larvae, using larval development and growth as endpoints, was carried out inside a rice field and in the adjacent wetland channel in Portugal, during pesticide treatments (molinate, endosulfan and propanil) to determine impact caused by pesticide contamination in freshwater ecosystems. The bioassay was also performed under laboratory conditions, to assess whether in situ and laboratory bioassays demonstrated comparable results. Growth was inhibited by concentrations of endosulfan (2.3 and 1.9 microgL(-1) averages) in water from rice field in both the field and laboratory, and by concentrations of endosulfan (0.55 and 0.76 microgL(-1) averages) in water from the wetland channel in the laboratory bioassay, while development was not affected. C. riparius larvae were not affected by molinate and propanil concentrations. The results indicate that endosulfan treatments in rice fields may cause an ecological impairment in adjacent freshwater ecosystems. The results also indicate that laboratory testing can be used to assess in situ toxicity caused by pesticide contamination.
17223300	A spore-forming bacterium strain 4J5(T) was isolated from rice field mud. When co-cultured with Methanobacterium formicicum DSM 1535(T), strain 4J5(T) could syntrophically degrade saturated fatty acids with 4-8 carbon atoms, including 2-methylbutyrate. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene similarity showed that strain 4J5(T) was most closely related to Syntrophomonas wolfei subsp. wolfei DSM 2245(T) (98.9% sequence similarity); however, it differed from the latter in the substrates utilized and its genetic characteristics. Therefore, a new subspecies Syntrophomonas wolfei subsp. methylbutyratica is proposed. The type strain is 4J5(T) (=CGMCC 1.5051(T)=JCM 14075(T)). Furthermore, based on 16S rRNA sequence divergence and substrate utilization, we propose the assignment of Syntrophomonas wolfei subsp. saponavida DSM 4212(T) to Syntrophomonas saponavida sp. nov. comb. nov.
1722390	The allergenic activity of Rice protein 16 KD (RP16KD) isolated from water soluble rice proteins was examined by radioallergosorbent test (RAST), RAST inhibition and histamine release assay. All of the 31 sera which showed positive RAST values for rice grain extract were positive for RP16KD RAST. Furthermore, there was a significant correlation (r = 0.56, p less than 0.01) between these RAST values. PR16KD effectively inhibited IgE binding to the rice grain extract disc in RAST inhibition assays using 4 sera with positive RAST values for both antigens. In 17 subjects with positive RAST values for rice grain extract, a significant positive correlation (r = 0.53, p less than 0.05) was found between the maximum percent histamine releases from their leukocytes by rice grain extract and RP16KD. These data strongly suggest that RP16KD is one of the major allergens of rice grain.
17225073	To elucidate genome-level responses to drought and high-salinity stress in rice, a 70 mer oligomer microarray covering 36,926 unique genes or gene models was used to profile genome expression changes in rice shoot, flag leaf and panicle under drought or high-salinity conditions. While patterns of gene expression in response to drought or high-salinity stress within a particular organ type showed significant overlap, comparison of expression profiles among different organs showed largely organ-specific patterns of regulation. Moreover, both stresses appear to alter the expression patterns of a significant number of genes involved in transcription and cell signaling in a largely organ-specific manner. The promoter regions of genes induced by both stresses or induced by one stress in more than one organ types possess relative enrichment of two cis-elements (ABRE core and DRE core) known to be associated with water stress. An initial computational analysis indicated that novel promoter motifs are present in the promoters of genes involved in rehydration after drought. This analysis suggested that rice might possess a mechanism that actively detects rehydration and facilitates rapid recovery. Overall, our data supports a notion that organ-specific gene regulation in response to the two abiotic stresses may primarily be mediated by organ-specific transcription responses.
17225816	Due to increased consumption of pre-packaged drinks, tap water may no longer be the principal source of water intake and consequently fluoride intake. Little is known about the importance of solid foods as fluoride sources and how the relative contribution of foods/drinks to fluoride intake is affected by residing in fluoridated or non-fluoridated areas. This study investigated the relative contributions of different dietary sources to dietary fluoride intake and compared this in children residing in optimally artificially fluoridated, sub-optimally artificially fluoridated, and non-fluoridated areas. Thirty-three healthy children aged 6 years were recruited from fluoridated and non-fluoridated communities and categorised into three groups based on fluoride content of home tap water: optimally fluoridated (< or =0.7 mgF/L), sub-optimally fluoridated (> or =0.3 to < or =0.7 mgF/L) and non-fluoridated (50.3 mgF/L) drinking water. A 3-day dietary diary collected dietary information. Samples of foods/drinks consumed were collected and analyzed for fluoride content. Drinks provided 59%, 55% and 32% of dietary fluoride intake in optimally, sub-optimally and non-fluoridated areas respectively. Tap water, fruit squashes and cordials (extremely sweet non-alcoholic fruit flavoured drink concentrates) prepared with tap water, as well as cooked rice, pasta and vegetables were important sources of fluoride in optimally and sub-optimally fluoridated areas. Carbonated soft drinks and bread were the most important contributors to dietary fluoride intake in the non-fluoridated area. The main contributory sources to dietary fluoride differ between fluoridated and non-fluoridated areas. Estimating total fluoride intake from levels of fluoride in tap water alone is unlikely to provide a reliable quantitative measure of intake. Studies monitoring dietary fluoride exposure should consider intake from all foods and drinks.
17225966	The identification of LSD1-like genes in parasite, green algae, moss, pine, and monocot and dicot species allowed us to trace the phylogenetic history of this gene family. Computational analysis showed that the diversification of members of this family could be dated back to the early stage of plant evolution. The evolution of plant LSD1-like genes was possibly shaped by two duplication events. These proteins, which contain three copies of the LSD1 zinc finger (zf-LSD1) domain within their entire polypeptides and play crucial roles in modulating disease defense and cell death, resulted from the second duplication. A gain of zf-LSD1 domain model was reasonable for explaining the origination of three-zf-LSD1 domain-containing proteins. The zf-LSD1 domain phylogeny showed that the middle (M) and C-terminal (C) domains originated from a common ancestor; the N-terminal (N) domain might be more ancient than the former two. The divergence of the N, M, and C domains was well before the monocot-dicot split. Coevolution analysis revealed that four intramolecular domain pairs, including the N domain and the interregion between the M and the C domains (INTER2), the M and C domain, the N- and C-terminus, and the M domain and C-terminus, possibly coevolved during the evolution of three-zf-LSD1 domain-containing proteins. The three zf-LSD1 domains are evolutionary conserved. Thus, the differences at the N- and C-terminus would be crucial for functional specificity of LSD1 genes. Strong functional constraints should work on the zf-LSD1 domains, whereas reduced functional constraint was found in the INTER2 region. Functional divergence analysis showed that three-zf-LSD1 domain-containing proteins were significantly functionally divergent from those proteins containing only one zf-LSD1 domain, a result demonstrating that shifted evolutionary rates between the two clusters were significantly different from each other.
17226004	Data sets obtained from quantitative analysis of seventeen pesticides in water samples from a network of irrigation and drainage channels in the Ebro river delta (Catalonia, NE Spain) have been analysed by chemometric and geostatistical methods. Samples were taken at fourteen locations during the main rice-growing season, from May to August 2005. Principal-component analysis enabled investigation of the spatial and temporal distribution of the main pollution patterns caused by application of pesticides in the region under study. A first pesticide-contamination pattern from the Ebro river was differentiated from a second more specific pattern from the water-drainage channels of the delta, collected from the rice fields. The seasonal peak in this more specific rice pesticide source was observed in July. Coupling the results from chemometric data analysis with use of geostatistical methods was shown to be a useful procedure for discovery of the most significant spatial and monthly variations of the main pesticide-contamination patterns, taking into account the particular geographical structure of the area under study.
17227063	A set of 27 rice varieties were evaluated for their morphological grain characteristics (length, width, thickness, thousand kernel weight, TKW), chemical composition (amylose, protein, and ash content) and starch properties (gelatinization temperature and enthalpy, amylose-lipid complex). In addition, cell walls were characterized by the arabinoxylan and beta-glucan contents. A rapid method for determining optimum rice cooking time was developed based on the swelling ratio; a fixed value of 2.55 gave a gelatinization level of 95% assessed by differential scanning calorimetry and translucence testing. Optimum cooking time appears positively correlated with kernel thickness and TKW but also with ash content. Confocal laser and scanning electron microscope observation of uncooked rice grains revealed different structural features (cell size) and fracture behavior: for some cultivars, the fracture showed ruptured cells, whereas for others most cells were intact. These structural differences, which may be linked to pectin content, could partly explain rice kernel cooking behavior.
17227080	Rice bran is abundant in bioactive compounds including tocotrienol (T3, unsaturated vitamin E). T3 has been reported about its potential functionalities (i.e., antiangiogenic effect), so much attention has been paid on usability of rice bran T3. Hence, we developed a rapid screening method for T3-rich rice bran by one-step equilibrium direct solvent extraction followed by normal phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The method gave high-extraction rate of rice bran T3 and tocopherol (above 90%), and the determination of vitamin E by HPLC was completed within 15 min. Using the method, an average of total T3 content in 109 kinds of rice bran samples was 830 mug/g dry wt. Kouchi-Akamai, Joushuu, and Wataribune were found as the T3-rich rice bran varieties (1350-1430 microg T3/g dry wt). According to T3 ratio against total vitamin E (wt %), the average ratio was 61%. Hirayama, Moritawase, and Kaneko were found as the varieties having the highest T3 ratio (80-86%). Since T3 content in Koshihikari rice bran (the leading variety in Japan) was a little above the average, we cross-fertilized Koshihikari with T3-rich varieties and found that T3 content or ratio in F1 was improved compared with Koshihikari. The varieties found rich in T3 could be used for nutraceutical purpose.
17227081	Monascus pigments are important colorings in food applications. Rice containing potassium phosphate and sodium nitrate was reported as a good pigment-producing medium for Monascus in previous studies. We found that the lack of potassium phosphate in this medium depressed red pigment production in cultivated Monascus pilosus. However, the influence of phosphate limitation on the biochemical metabolisms concerning culture growth and pigment production in Monascus remains unknown. Here, we used proteomic analysis by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF MS), tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS), and database interrogation to separate and identify the proteins of M. pilosus grown between the lack of potassium phosphate and the control media. Phosphate limitation to this complex medium induced an up-regulation of aldehyde dehydrogenase and several glycolytic enzymes in Monascus relative to the control. In contrast, the metabolic enzymes such as glucosamine:fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase and ADP-ribosylation factor 1 were up-regulated in the control.
17227455	Gram-negative bacteria most often use N-acyl homoserine lactones (AHLs) as intercellular quorum-sensing signal molecules. In this study, it was demonstrated that rice plants contain AHL mimic molecules that are very sensitive to the highly specific AiiA lactonase enzyme and can activate three different AHL bacterial biosensors, indicating that the compounds have a homoserine lactone structure and could be AHLs. The possible source and biological significance of this finding are discussed.
17227462	The Ascomycetous fungus Bipolaris oryzae is the causal agent of brown leaf spot disease in rice and is a model for studying photomorphogenetic responses by near-UV radiation. Targeted gene disruption (knockout) for functional analysis of photomorphogenesis-related genes in B. oryzae can be achieved by homologous recombination with low efficiency. Here, the applicability of RNA silencing (knockdown) as a tool for targeting endogenous genes in B. oryzae is reported. A polyketide synthase gene (PKS1), involved in fungal DHN melanin biosynthesis pathways, was targeted by gene silencing as a marker. The silencing vector encoding hairpin RNA of the PKS1 fragment was constructed in a two-step PCR-based cloning, and introduced into the B. oryzae genomic DNA. Silencing of the PKS1 gene resulted in albino phenotypes and reduction of PKS1 mRNA expression. These results demonstrate the applicability of targeted gene silencing as a useful reverse-genetics approach in B. oryzae.
17227677	In order to investigate the occurrence and distribution of organic contaminants in the compost of sewage sludge with rice straw, four different composting treatments at a low carbon/nitrogen (C/N) ratio (13:1) were conducted. Thirty semi-volatile organic compounds (SVOCs) listed as priority pollutants by both China and the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) were Soxhlet-extracted, separated and analyzed by gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The results showed that after composting (56 days) most of SVOCs were detected in the final composts. The total concentrations of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and phthalic acid esters ranged from 1.8 to 10 mg/kg dry weight (d.w.) and from 9.8 to 18 mg/kg d.w., respectively, being significantly higher than those of chlorobenzenes and nitroaromatic compounds which were generally less than 1.0 mg/kg d.w. The concentrations and predominant compounds of organic contaminants in the different composts varied, and were affected by their physico-chemical properties and the composting processes. Concentrations of SVOCs in the static aerated composting processes especially intermittently aerated composting treatment were considerably lower than those in the manual-turned composting treatments. Concentrations of organic contaminants especially PAHs and di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate in the final composts were in agreement with the maximum permissible limits for agricultural purposes proposed by the European Union and by the EPA.
17228792	Molecular approaches are being developed to provide for the rapid and objective identification of fungi. We attempted the identification of Fusarium species by a genetic analysis to validate practically the utility of a molecular approach for fungal identification and to reveal its limitations, and sequenced three regions, the 5' end of the 28S rRNA gene (D2 region) and the internal transcribed spacer 1 and 2 (ITS1 and ITS2) regions, in the rRNA genes. The DNA sequences of 38 Fusarium strains isolated from domestic unpolished rice were compared for similarity with entries in the GenBank. Based on this comparison, it was estimated that all these three regions, as a minimum, must be compared with the database to identify Fusaria at the species level. According to the combinations of sequences in the three regions, the 38 isolates were classified into 13 groups. Out of the 13 groups, 6 groups (20 isolates in total) could be identified as definite species based only on the sequence data. For the other 6 groups (17 isolates in total), candidate species were limited on the basis of the sequence similarity, and then the isolates were identified at the species level with the aid of morphology. Only one isolate could not be identified. These results verified that DNA sequence comparison with the GenBank database is useful for the identification of Fusarium species.
17229544	Generation of an indexed, saturated, insertional-mutant library is an aid to understanding the functions of genes in an organism. However, 10 years of work by many investigators have not yet yielded such a library in rice. The major reason is that determining the chromosomal locations of a very large number of random insertion mutants by flanking sequence analysis is highly labor intensive, and therefore, libraries that do exist have not been indexed. We report here an efficient procedure to construct an indexed, region-specific, insertional-mutant library of rice. The procedure makes use of efficient long-PCR-based high-throughput indexing, coupled with a random but anchored population of Ds transposants. Long-PCR indexing allows rapid and simultaneous determination of the chromosomal locations of a large number of mutants that surround a particular anchor line, thus converting a random library into an indexed one. Such a library can be used directly, without the need to screen a large random library for a desired mutant plant.
17229566	Delayed fluorescence (DF) is an excellent marker for evaluating plant photosynthesis. Compared with common methods for measuring the photosynthesis rate based on consumption of CO(2), DF technique can quantify the plant photosynthesis capacity more accurately and faster under its physiological status with less interference from the environment. We previously reported a method for measuring photosynthesis using DF of chloroplast [Wang, C.L., Xing, D., Chen, Q., 2004. Biosens. Bioelectron. 20, 454-459]. In the study, a novel fast and portable photosynthesis capacity biosensor system was developed, which was composed of light-emitting diode lattice as excitation light source, Channel Photomultiplier DC-Module to achieve DF, single-chip microcomputer as control center, hermetic dark sample chamber, battery power supply and CO(2), humidity and temperature controller. Compared with our previous work, the system was portable and can directly measure plant photosynthesis capacity in vivo in less than 10s. A database in the software to carry out data acquisition and processing was developed to translate maximal DF intensity to net photosynthesis rate (Pn). In addition, local-control and remote-control mode can be chosen in the system. To demonstrate the utility of the system, it was applied to evaluate maximum Pn of four different plant species samples (Queen Rape Myrtle (var. rubra), soybean (Lu Hei No. 1), maize (Jin Dan No. 39) and rice (Jing Dao No. 21)) in field. The results were compared with that using commercial photosynthesis system LI-6400 and the uncertainty was less than +/-5%. The new principle of photosynthesis measurement is a challenge and breakthrough to conventional method of gas exchange and may be a potential technique of next generation photosynthesis measurement.
17233721	Bipolaris oryzae is a filamentous ascomycetous fungus that causes brown leaf spot disease in rice. We isolated and characterized BLR1, a gene that encodes a putative blue-light regulator similar to Neurospora crassa white-collar 1 (WC-1). The deduced amino acid sequence of BLR1 showed high degrees of similarity to other fungal blue-light regulator protein. Disruption of the BLR1 gene demonstrated that this gene is essential for conidial development after conidiophore formation and for near-UV radiation-enhanced photolyase gene expression.
17233735	A survey of Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) species was conducted in agricultural fields within Hangzhou, China. Out of the 251 bacterial isolates recovered on the selective media from the rhizosphere of rice and maize, 112 of them were assigned to Bcc by PCR assays. The species composition of the Bcc isolates was analyzed by a combination of recA-restriction fragment length polymorphism assays, species-specific PCR tests and recA gene sequencing. The results revealed that the majority belong to B. cepacia, Burkholderia cenocepacia recA lineage IIIB, Burkholderia vietnamiensis and Burkholderia pyrrocinia. Burkholderia cenocepacia and B. vietnamiensis dominated the rhizosphere of maize and rice, respectively, indicating that species composition and abundance of Bcc may vary dramatically in different crop rhizospheres. In addition, one isolate (R456) formed a single discrete cluster within the phylogenetic analysis of the Bcc recA gene, and it may belong to a new genomovar.
17234504	A late evening snack improves the catabolic state in patients with advanced liver cirrhosis. We tested whether long-term (3 mo) late evening snacking that included a branched-chain amino acid (BCAA)-enriched nutrient mixture produces a better nutritional state and better quality of life than ordinary food in patients with hepatitis C virus-positive liver cirrhosis. In a multicenter, randomized study, 48 patients with liver cirrhosis received late-evening supplementation with the BCAA-enriched nutrient mixture or ordinary food, such as a rice ball or bread, for 3 mo. During the study period, each patient was instructed on energy and protein intake. Blood biochemical data, nitrogen balance, respiratory quotient, and health-related quality of life (Short Form 36 questionnaire) were evaluated at baseline and at the end of the study. Total and late-evening energy intakes were similar in the two groups at 3 mo. Serum albumin level, nitrogen balance, and respiratory quotient were significantly improved by the BCAA mixture but not by ordinary food. The parameters of the Short Form 36 did not statistically significantly improve over 3 mo in either group. Long-term oral supplementation with a BCAA mixture is better than ordinary food in a late evening snack at improving the serum albumin level and the energy metabolism in patients with cirrhosis.
17236188	The rice paddy eel, Pisodonophis boro (P. boro), is of special interest because of its peculiar burrowing habits. P. boro penetrates the substrate tail-first, a technique common for ophichthids, but it is able to burrow head-first as well. P. boro exhibits three feeding modes: inertial feeding, grasping, and spinning. Rotational feeding is a highly specialized feeding mode, adopted by several elongate, aquatic vertebrates and it is likely that some morphological modifications are related to this feeding mode. The detailed morphology of the head and tail of P. boro is examined with the goal to apportion the anatomical specializations among head-first burrowing, tail-first burrowing, and rotational feeding. The reduced eyes, covered with thick corneas may be beneficial for protection during head-first burrowing, but at the same time decreased visual acuity may have an impact on other sensory systems (e.g. cephalic lateral line system). The elongated and pointed shape of the skull is beneficial for substrate penetration. The cranial bones and their joints, which are fortified, are advantageous for resisting high mechanical loads during head-first burrowing. The aponeurotic connection between epaxial and jaw muscles is considered beneficial for transferring these forces from the body to the head during rotational feeding. Hypertrophied jaw muscles facilitate a powerful bite, which is required to hold prey during spinning movements and variability in the fiber angles of subdivisions of jaw muscles may be beneficial for preventing the lower jaw from being dislodged or opened. Furthermore, firm upper (premaxillo-ethmovomerine complex) and lower jaws (with robust coronoid processes) and high neurocranial rigidity are advantageous for a solid grip to hold prey during rotational feeding. The pointed shape of the tail and the consolidated caudal skeleton are beneficial for their tail-first burrowing habits. It is quite likely that the reduction of the caudal musculature is related to the tail-first burrowing behavior because the subtle movements of the caudal fin rays are no longer required.
17237338	The primary focus of this review is considerations for complementary feedings to meet micronutrient needs of infants aged 6-24 mo who are continuing with breast-feeding and minimal or no formula. The World Health Organization recommends initiation of complementary feeding to breast-fed infants at approximately 6 mo of age. Whether complementary foods will meet nutrient needs will depend on the types of food selected. One criterion for the selection of complementary foods is that they be rich sources of zinc and iron because both of these essential micronutrients are critical for normal growth and development, and requirements are not met by exclusive breast-feeding after approximately 6 mo. For an exclusively breast-fed 7-mo-old infant, human milk provides approximately 0.5 mg of zinc, and a little over half of that is absorbed. Adding some cereal can increase zinc intake modestly but will fall short of providing the estimated physiologic requirement because adaptive mechanisms are inadequate to compensate for moderately low zinc intake. Maize, wheat, rice, and roots are also relatively low in zinc and have the added factor of a high phytate-to-zinc molar ratio, which makes the zinc less bioavailable. Meats and liver have greater zinc and iron concentrations than unfortified plant foods and have been shown to have good acceptance by 7-mo-old infants. In contrast to current practices in both developed and developing countries, meats should be considered as an early complementary food for breast-fed infants to provide essential micronutrients.
17237471	Mutant genes, reduced culm number 1 (rcn1) and bunketsuwaito tillering dwarf (d3), affect tiller number in rice (Oryza sativa L.) in opposite directions. The d3 mutant was reported to increase tiller number and reduce plant stature. Our objective was to compare the phenotype of the d3rcn1 double mutant with each single mutant and parental rice cultivar "Shiokari" and to clarify whether the Rcn1 gene interacted with the D3 gene. We recovered a new rcn1 mutant from Shiokari and developed d3rcn1 double mutant with Shiokari genetic background. A new rcn1 mutant, designated as "S-97-61" exhibited a reduction in tiller number and plant stature to about the same level as the previously reported original rcn1 mutant. Three near-isogenic lines, rcn1 mutant, d3 mutant, and d3rcn1 double mutant, were grown together with the parental Shiokari. The reduction in tillering by the rcn1 mutation was independent of the d3 genotype, and tillering number of d3rcn1 double mutant was between those of the d3 and rcn1 mutants. These results demonstrated that the Rcn1 gene was not involved in the D3-associated pathway in tillering control.
17237981	The catalytic domain of Acidothermus cellulolyticus thermostable endoglucanase gene (encoding for endo-1,4-beta-glucanase enzyme or E1) was constitutively expressed in rice. Molecular analyses of T1 plants confirmed presence and expression of the transgene. The amount of E1 enzyme accounted for up to 4.9% of the plant total soluble proteins, and its accumulation had no apparent deleterious effects on plant growth and development. Approximately 22 and 30% of the cellulose of the Ammonia Fiber Explosion (AFEX)-pretreated rice and maize biomass respectively was converted into glucose using rice E1 heterologous enzyme. As rice is the major food crop of the world with minimal use for its straw, our results suggest a successful strategy for producing biologically active hydrolysis enzymes in rice to help generate alcohol fuel, by substituting the wasteful and polluting practice of rice straw burning with an environmentally friendly technology.
17238046	Drought is one of the most severe stresses limiting plant growth and yield. Genes involved in water stress tolerance of wild barley (Hordeum spontaneoum), the progenitor of cultivated barley, were investigated using genotypes contrasting in their response to water stress. Gene expression profiles of water-stress tolerant vs. water-stress sensitive wild barley genotypes, under severe dehydration stress applied at the seedling stage, were compared using cDNA-AFLP analysis. Of the 1100 transcript-derived fragments (TDFs) amplified about 70 displayed differential expression between control and stress conditions. Eleven of them showed clear difference (up- or down-regulation) between tolerant and susceptible genotypes. These TDFs were isolated, sequenced and tested by RT-PCR. The differential expression of seven TDFs was confirmed by RT-PCR, and TDF-4 was selected as a promising candidate gene for water-stress tolerance. The corresponding gene, designated Hsdr4 (Hordeum spontaneum dehydration-responsive), was sequenced and the transcribed and flanking regions were determined. The deduced amino acid sequence has similarity to the rice Rho-GTPase-activating protein-like with a Sec14 p-like lipid-binding domain. Analysis of Hsdr4 promoter region that was isolated by screening a barley BAC library, revealed a new putative miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE), and several potential stress-related binding sites for transcription factors (MYC, MYB, LTRE, and GT-1), suggesting a role of the Hsdr4 gene in plant tolerance to dehydration stress. Furthermore, the Hsdr4 gene was mapped using wild barley mapping population to the long arm of chromosome 3H between markers EBmac541 and EBmag705, within a region that previously was shown to affect osmotic adaptation in barley.
17239520	This paper reports on photocatalytic and adsorptive treatment of a hazardous xanthene dye, Rohdamine B, in wastewater. The photocatalytic degradation was carried out in the presence of the catalyst TiO(2) and the effects of pH, concentration of the dye, amount of TiO(2), temperature and electron acceptor H(2)O(2) on the degradation process were observed. It was found that photocatalytic degradation by TiO(2) is an effective, economical and faster mode of removing Rohdamine B from aqueous solutions. Attempts were also made to utilize activated carbon and rice husk as potential adsorbents to remove Rhodamine B from wastewater. The adsorption studies were carried out at 40, 50 and 60 degrees C, and the effects of pH, temperature, amount of adsorbents, concentration of adsorbate, etc., on the adsorption were measured. On the basis of adsorption data the Langmuir and Freundlich adsorption isotherm models were also confirmed. The adsorption isotherm constants thus obtained were employed to calculate thermodynamic parameters like Gibb's free energy, change in enthalpy and entropy. In order to observe the quality of wastewater COD measurements were also carried out before and after the treatments. A significant decrease in the COD values was observed, which clearly indicates that both photocatalytic and adsorption methods offer good potential to remove Rhodamine B from industrial effluents.
17239550	Out of 700 heifers at a local farm in Hokkaido, the Northern island of Japan, 560 (80%) were found to have benign teat tumors. All of the analyzed tumors were macroscopically of the flat-and-round type, and no other types such as rice-grain or frond epithelial type were found. The lesions were characterized by epithelial hyperplasia, acanthosis and hyperkeratosis. Unlike in typical fibropapilloma, fibroplasia of the underlying dermis was not observed. Bovine papilloma virus (BPV) capsid antigen and virus particles were found in basophilic intranuclear inclusions of the stratum granulosum of the epidermis by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy, respectively. BPV-specific DNA was also detected in the lesions. By means of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and DNA sequencing of the PCR products, the viruses causing this outbreak were identified mainly as BPV-6 (64%), partly as unclassified BPVs (14%) and their co-infections (21%). Our findings suggest that this outbreak of benign teat tumors was associated with several BPV types.
17239924	A glass house experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of soil arsenic on photosynthetic pigments, chlorophyll-a and -b, and their correlations with rice yield and growth. The experiment was designed with three replications of six arsenic treatments viz. control, 10, 20, 30, 60, 90 mg of As kg(-1) soil. Arsenic concentration in initial soil, to which the above mentioned concentrations of arsenic were added, was 6.44+/-0.24 mg kg(-1). Both chlorophyll-a and -b contents in rice leaf decreased significantly (p<0.05) with the increase of soil arsenic concentrations. No rice plant survived up to maturity stage in soil treated with 60 and 90 mg of As kg(-1). The highest chlorophyll-a and -b contents were observed in control treatment (2.62+/-0.24 and 2.07+/-0.14 mg g(-1) were the average values of chlorophyll-a and -b, respectively of the five rice varieties) while 1.50+/-0.20 and 1.04+/-0.08 mg g(-1) (average of five rice varieties) of chlorophyll-a and -b, respectively were the lowest. The content of photosynthetic pigments in these five rice varieties did not differ significantly (p>0.05) from each other in control treatment though they differed significantly (p<0.05) from each other in 30 mg of As kg(-1) soil treatment. Among the five rice varieties, chlorophyll content in BRRI dhan 35 was found to be mostly affected with the increase of soil arsenic concentration while BRRI hybrid dhan 1 was least affected. Well correlations were observed between chlorophyll content and rice growth and yield suggesting that arsenic toxicity affects the photosynthesis which ultimately results in the reduction of rice growth and yield.
17240019	Uptake of six organic compounds, dinitrobenzene (DNB), dinitrotoluene (DNT), lindan (LIN), 1,2,3-triclorobenzene (TCB), phenanthrene (PHN) and pyrene (PYR) by freshly excised rice roots and dead rice roots (heated for 40min at 105 degrees C) were investigated. Results indicated that the uptake by the two types of roots did not increase proportionally with those in external solution. There appears to be some special chemical function of root cells other than simple absorption by the cells. The contribution of this special function can be roughly estimated by deducting the partition uptake into cells from the total uptake. Both time-dependent uptake data and concentration-dependent uptake curves demonstrate that, DNT and DNB transport is achieved presumably mainly via the symplastic pathway, while PHN and PYR transport mainly via the apoplastic pathway. For LIN and TCB, apoplastic transport pathway plays major roles in the first 2h of uptake, then symplastic transport pathway dominates uptake.
17241092	The potential of liquid chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC-QqTOF-MS) to identify and confirm carbosulfan and seven of its main metabolites (carbofuran, 3-hydroxycarbofuran, 3-ketocarbofuran, 3-hydroxy-7-phenol carbofuran, 3-keto-7-phenolcarbofuran, 7-phenolcarbofuran, dibutylamine) at trace levels from food is explored for the first time. The analytical method developed consists of pressurized liquid extraction (PLE) and LC-QqTOF-MS in positive ion mode, which attains unequivocal identification and quantification of the studied compounds in food, at levels well below of those of concern (0.05 mg/kg for the sum of carbosulfan, carbofuran, and 3-hydroxycarbofuran). PLE recoveries ranged from 55 to 94% with limits of quantification from 10 (for carbosulfan, carbofuran, 3-hydroxycarbofuran, and dibutylamine) to 70 microg/kg (3-keto-7-phenolcarbofuran). The method is precise, with relative standard deviations varying between 5 and 11% for the repeatability (within-day) and 8-13% for the reproducibility (interday). This method was used to monitor the presence and fate of the target compounds in orange, potato, and rice crops treated with a commercial product containing carbosulfan. Field degradation studies show that carbofuran, 3-hydroxycarbofuran, and dibutylamine are the main degradation products formed in the environmental disappearance of carbosulfan.
17241908	Plants set seed at appropriate seasons. One major mechanism responsible for this adaptation involves photoperiodic flowering. Most plants are classified as either long-day plants, which flower under a longer photoperiod, or short-day plants, which flower under a shorter photoperiod. A third group, day-neutral plants, is not responsive to changes in photoperiod. During the past decade, molecular analysis has revealed at the molecular level how the long-day plant Arabidopsis thaliana measures daylength in photoperiodic flowering. In contrast, the molecular mechanisms underlying the responses of short-day plants are still under investigation. Progress in understanding photoperiodic flowering in rice (Oryza sativa), a short-day plant, revealed unique, evolutionarily conserved pathways involved in photoperiodic flowering at the molecular level. Furthermore, the conserved pathways promote flowering under short-day conditions and suppress flowering under long-day conditions in rice, but promote flowering under long-day conditions in Arabidopsis. In this chapter, we discuss the molecular mechanisms responsible for short-day flowering in rice in comparison with long-day flowering in Arabidopsis.
17245561	NADP-malic enzyme (NADP-ME, EC 1.1.1.40) functions in many different pathways in plants, and has recently been implicated in plant defense such as in responses to wounding and UV-B radiation. In this study, we isolated a complementary DNA (cDNA) clone by using the differential display method and screening of a root cDNA library of rice (Oryza sativa. L) under carbonate (NaHCO3) stress, and identified it as one of the rice NADP-ME genes (we named it NADP-ME2, GenBank accession no. AB053295). The 5' end of NADP-ME2 was obtained by the 5'-RACE method, and the full-length cDNA had a length of 2217 bp encoding 593 amino acids. Expression of NADP-ME2 mRNA in roots was induced by stress from carbonates (NaHCO3 and Na2CO3, NaCl, and environmental pH changes. NADP-ME2 transcripts increased during 72-h exposures to NaHCO3, NaCl, and PEG stresses. Furthermore, NADP-ME activities in leaves and roots of rice seedlings increased by more than 50% in the presence of carbonates (NaHCO3 and Na2CO3), NaCl, and PEG. These results indicate that rice NADP-ME2 responds to salts and osmotic stresses. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants over-expressing NADP-ME2 were obtained through transformation, screening, Northern analysis and in situ NADP-ME activity assay. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants over-expressing NADP-ME2 grew well in 1/2 x MS medium with 100 mM NaCl or 4% mannitol, whereas growth of wild-type (WT) Arabidopsis seedlings was strongly inhibited. In addition, under 125 mM NaCl stress, the root lengths of transgenic lines were about twice as long as those of the WT. These results suggest that NADP-ME2 has a role in enhancing tolerance of plants to salt and osmotic stress.
17246212	Twelve primary trisomics of Oryza sativa L. were isolated from the progenies of spontaneous triploids and were transferred by backcrossing to the genetic background of IR36, a widely grown high yielding rice variety. Eleven trisomics can be identified morphologically from one another and from diploids. However, triplo 11 is difficult to distinguish from diploid sibs.-The extra chromosome of each trisomic was identified cytologically at pachytene stage of meiosis, and the chromosomes were numbered according to their length at this stage. The major distinguishing features of each pachytene chromosome were redescribed.-The female transmission rates varied from 15.5% for triplo 1, the longest chromosome, to 43.9% for triplo 12, the shortest chromosome. Seven of the 12 primary trisomics transmitted the extra chromosome through the male. The low level of chromosomal imbalance tolerated by rice and other evidence are interpreted to indicate that this species is a basic diploid.-Genetic segregation for 22 marker genes in the trisomic progenies was studied. Of a possible 264 combinations, involving 22 genes and 12 trisomics, 120 were examined. Marker genes for each of the 12 chromosomes were identified. The results helped establish associations between linkage groups and cytologically identifiable chromosomes of rice for the first time. Relationships between various systems of numbering chromosomes, trisomics, linkage groups and marker genes are described, and a revised linkage map of rice is presented.
17246240	The recombination frequency as influenced by five independent recessive ds genes was measured on three segments of different chromosomes of rice, Oryza sativa L. Each ds gene in the homozygous condition resulted in an almost equally reduced recombination frequency in the three segments. When the mean reduction in recombination frequency was related to the reduction of chiasma frequency, the five ds genes were divided into two types: in one type the reduction of chiasma frequency almost corresponded to the mean reduction of recombination frequency, and in the other the chiasma frequency was greatly reduced in comparison with the mean reduction of recombination frequency. Three of the five ds genes were found to belong to the former group. In both types, normal synaptonemal complexes were observed in pachytene cells homozygous for ds genes. This finding suggests that ds genes do not affect the formation of synaptonemal complexes which are regarded as the prerequisite structure for crossing over.
17246547
17246550
17248195
17248554	Weakness of F(1) plants is frequently found in hybrids between strains of Oryza breviligulata (wild) and O. glaberrima (cultivated rice) endemic to West Africa. A set of two complementary dominant weakness genes, W(1) and W(2), was found to control the observed F(1) weakness. Many breviligulata strains had W(1), while most of the glaberrima and semi-wild strains had W(2) or were free of both. In the weak F(1) plants, tissue differentiation in adventitious roots seemed to be disturbed. Modifier genes affecting the expression of the weakness genes appear to be present also.
17248657	In order to look into the genetic basis of intervarietal F(1) sterility in rice (Oryza sativa L.), a series of backcrosses (up to B(13)) was carried out using Taichung 65 (Japonica type) as the recurrent parent and several Indica varieties as donor parents. A number of "isogenic F(1)-sterile lines" were isolated by test-crossing fertile F(2) plants obtained from the selfing of partly pollensterile backcross segregants. Crossing experiments with the isogenic lines confirmed the author's previous hypothesis that there are sets of duplicate gametic lethals (s genes) and that gametes carrying a double recessive combination (s(1)s(2)) of these deteriorate during development, though in the present hypothesis the genes are considered to affect the development of microspores only. Assuming that Taichung 65 has the genotype s(1)/s(1) + (2)/+(2) and a donor parent (like an isogenic F(1)-sterile line derived from it) has +(1)/+(1)s(2)/s(2), pollen grains with +(1)s(2) have shown a higher fertilizing capacity in the genetic background of Taichung 65 than those with s(1) +(2), while those with +(1) +(2) have a lower fertilizing capacity. This certational advantage of alien genes was considered to be an internal mechanism that helped the development of F(1) sterility relationships among rice varieties. The isogenic F(1)-sterile lines derived from different donor parents each had a set of s genes at different loci. Linkage relations were detected between the s loci and three gene markers.
17248664	1) Contributions to the origin of cultivated rice made by the author and his colleagues were briefly reviewed under several headlines.-2) Two parallel series of evolution of cultivated species, the Asian form of Oryza perennis to O. sativa and O. breviligulata to O. glaberrima, were pointed out compared.-3) In both the two series, a continuous array of intergrades between wild and cultivated species is found in a particular region. The pattern of character variations among those intermediate plants was considered as indicating the evolutionary path, and the monophyletic origin of the Indica and Japonica types of O. sativa was discussed.-4) The conditions of establishment of a weedy form of O. perennis found in India were discussed. It was noticed that cultivation by man in itself works as a selective agent for cultivated types.
17248812	The inheritance of plant height was investigated in a ten-parent diallel cross of diverse rice cultivars. Parents included two tall japonica lines and eight semidwarf lines. Data from parent, F(1), F(2), and F(3) generations indicated that the majority of height variation among the ten parents could be accounted for by three major genes with additive loci effects. D51, 72/2234-11, and G33 (derived from the known major-gene indica semidwarf Dee-geo-woo-gen) all were found to possess an allelic, partially recessive semidwarfing gene (sd(1)). Additional semidwarfing genes were detected in D66 (sd(2), fully recessive) and in CI 9858 (sd(3), partially to fully recessive). Relative magnitudes of additive effects were sd(1) > sd(2) >/= sd(3). Hokuriki 76, Tedoriwase, and IV 29-4 were found to be dwarfed by a multiple-gene system. Hayman-Jinks diallel cross analysis on parent and F(1) information (1974 and 1975) and on parent and F(2) information demonstrated the presence of significant additive and dominance variation, but epistasis was not detected. A preponderance of dominant alleles with partial dominance for increased plant height was observed. Since diallel statistics reflect properties of genes with larger effects, the genetic model proposed from segregation analysis was in substantial agreement with predictions of the Hayman-Jinks analysis.
17249230	Global biodiversity decline has prompted great interest in the effects of habitat modification and diversity on the functioning and stability of ecosystem processes. However, the applicability of previous modeled or mesocosm community studies to real diverse communities in different habitats remains ambiguous. We exposed standardized nesting resources for naturally occurring communities of cavity-nesting bees and wasps and their parasitoids in coastal Ecuador, to test the effects of host and parasitoid diversity on an ecosystem function (parasitism rates) and temporal variability in this function. In accordance with predictions of complementary host use, parasitism rates increased with increasing diversity, not simply abundance, of parasitoids. In contrast, parasitism decreased with increasing host diversity, possibly due to positive prey interactions or increased probability of selecting unpalatable species. Temporal variability in parasitism was lower in plots with high mean parasitoid diversity and higher in plots with temporally variable host and parasitoid diversity. These effects of diversity on parasitism and temporal stability in parasitism rates were sufficiently strong to be visible across five different habitat types, representing a gradient of increasing anthropogenic modification. Habitat type did not directly affect parasitism rates, but host and parasitoid diversity and abundance were higher in highly modified habitats, and parasitoid diversity was positively correlated with rates of parasitism. The slope of the richness-parasitism relationship did not vary significantly across habitats, although that for Simpson's diversity was significant only in rice and pasture. We also show that pooling data over long time periods, as in previous studies, can blur the effect of diversity on parasitism rates, and the appropriate spatiotemporal scale of study must be considered.
17249341	We determined changes in species composition and densities of immature stages of Anopheles arabiensis mosquitoes in relation to rice growth cycle in order to generate data for developing larval control strategies in rice ecosystems. Experimental rice paddies (6.3m x 3.15m) exposed to natural colonization of mosquitoes were sampled weekly for two rice growing cycles between February 2004 and March 2005. Overall, 21,325 Anopheles larvae were collected, of which 91.9% were 1st and 2nd instars and 8.1% were 3rd and 4th instars. An. arabiensis was the predominant species (84.1%) with other species, An. pharoensis (13.5%), An. funestus (2.1%), An. coustani (0.3%), and An. maculipalpis (0.1%) accounting for only a small proportion of the anophelines collected. Culex quinquefasciatus (65.7%) was the predominant species among the non-anopheline species. Others species collected included: C. annulioris (9.9%), C. poicilipes (7.3%), C. tigripes (7.2%), C. duttoni (0.6%), Aedes aegypti (5.3%), Ae. cumminsii (3.5%), and Ae. vittatus (0.7%). The densities of the major anopheline species were closely related to rice stage and condition of the rice field. An. arabiensis, the predominant species, was most abundant over a three-week period after transplanting. Low densities of larvae were collected during the late vegetative, reproductive, and ripening phases of rice. An increase in larval density ten days post-transplanting was found to correlate with the application of fertilizer (sulphate of ammonia). Culicine and aedine species densities were significantly higher during the post-harvesting period. Our results suggest that the transplanting stage is favorable for the growth of immature stages of An. arabiensis and provides a narrow window for targeted larval intervention in rice.
17249350	Urban agriculture is common across Africa and contributes to the livelihoods of urban dwellers. Some crop systems create suitable mosquito breeding sites and thus might affect malaria transmission. The purpose of this study was to identify, map, and characterize potential mosquito breeding sites in agricultural land use zones in a medium-sized town of western Cte d'Ivoire and to assess risk factors for productive Anopheles breeding sites. Two surveys were carried out; one toward the end of the rainy season and the second one during the dry season. In all identified potential mosquito breeding sites, two experienced entomologists searched for the presence of Anopheles larvae and pupae with a standardized technique. Totals of 369 and 589 sites were found in the rainy and dry seasons, respectively, mainly in vegetable gardens and irrigated rice fields. Anopheles larvae were present in 50.7% and 42.4% of the sites investigated during the rainy and dry seasons, respectively. Typical Anopheles larval habitats were characterized by the presence of algae, the absence of floating vegetation, and the co-occurrence of Culex larvae. The highest Anopheles larval productivity was observed in rice paddies, agricultural trenches between vegetable patches, and irrigation wells. An indirect link could be established between the occurrence of productive Anopheles breeding sites and agricultural land use through specific man-made habitats, in particular agricultural trenches, irrigation wells, and rice paddies. Our findings have important bearings for the epidemiology and control of urban malaria in sub-Saharan Africa.
17249420	The type II (T2S) and type III (T3S) secretion systems are important for virulence of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, causal agent of bacterial leaf blight of rice. The T3S of gram-negative bacterial plant pathogens has been shown to suppress host defense responses, including programmed cell death reactions, whereas the T2S is involved in secreting cell-wall-degrading enzymes. Here, we show that a T3S-deficient (T3S-) mutant of X. oryzae pv. oryzae can induce a basal plant defense response seen as callose deposition, immunize rice against subsequent X. oryzae pv. oryzae infection, and cause cell-death-associated nuclear fragmentation. A T2S- T3S- double mutant exhibited a substantial reduction in the ability to evoke these responses. We purified two major effectors of the X. oryzae pv. oryzae T2S and characterized them to be a cellulase (ClsA) and a putative cellobiosidase (CbsA). The purified ClsA, CbsA, and lipase/esterase (LipA; a previously identified T2S effector) proteins induced rice defense responses that were suppressible by X. oryzae pv. oryzae in a T3S-dependent manner. These defense responses also were inducible by the products of the action of these purified proteins on rice cell walls. We further show that a CbsA- mutant or a ClsA- LipA- double mutant are severely virulence deficient. These results indicate that the X. oryzae pv. oryzae T2S secretes important virulence factors, which induce innate rice defense responses that are suppressed by T3S effectors to enable successful infection.
17249423	The Pi2/9 locus contains at least four resistance specificities to Magnaporthe grisea and belongs to a gene complex comprised of multiple genes that encode highly homologous nucleotide binding site (NBS) and leucine rich repeat (LRR) proteins. To investigate the genetic events involved in the evolution of the Pi2/9 locus, we analyzed the Pi2/9 locus at the inter- and intralocus levels in five rice cultivars. The NBS-LRR genes in the five cultivars belong to the same phylogenetic clade among rice NBS-LRR genes, and all have a phase-2 intron at the N-terminus. However, the paralogs within each haplotype show a significant sequence divergence and their N-terminal intron and 5' regulatory regions are very different. On the contrary, the orthologs from different haplotypes are highly similar, indicating an obvious orthologous relationship has been maintained during the evolution of the Pi2/9 locus. These results suggest that sequence diversification in the 5' regulatory regions and N-terminal introns of the paralogs may have led to suppression of meiotic recombination between the paralogs within each haplotype, facilitating the maintenance of the orthologous relationship among rice cultivars. Our observations provide valuable insight into the genomic dynamics and evolutionary mechanism of an NBS-LRR resistance-gene complex in rice.
17249489	Culinary utensils may release some inorganic elements during food preparation. Mineral migration can be beneficial for as long as it occurs in amounts adequate to the needs of the consumer or no toxicological implications are involved. In this study, the migrations of Fe, Mg, Mn, Cr, Ni and Ca, along seven cooking cycles were evaluated for two food preparations (polished rice and commercial tomato sauce, the latter as an acid food), performed in unused stainless steel, cast iron and soapstone pans, taking refractory glass as a blank. Minerals were determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP OES). The utensils studied exhibited different rates, patterns and variability of migration depending on the type of food. Regression analysis of the data revealed that, as a function of the number of cycles, the iron pans released increasing amounts of iron when tomato sauce was cooked (y = 70.76x + 276.75; R2 = 0.77). The soapstone pans released calcium (35 and 26 mg/kg), magnesium (25 and 15 mg/kg) into the tomato sauce and rice preparations, respectively. Additionally, the commercial tomato sauce drew manganese (3.9 and 0.6 mg/kg) and some undesirable nickel (1.0 mg/kg) from the soapstone material, whereas the stainless steel pans released nickel at a lower rate than steatite and in a diminishing fashion with the number o cooking cycles, while still transferring some iron and chromium to the food. We conclude that while cast iron and glass could be best for the consumer's nutritional health, stainless steel and steatite can be used with relatively low risk, provided acid foods are not routinely prepared in those materials.
17249491	Research regarding the production of gluten-free bread (GFB) is very important nutritionally, technically and economically speaking, both to celiac patients and to developing countries who import wheat. The main technological problem in the production of GFB is obtaining a gluten substitute that is both inexpensive and capable of retaining gas during bread fermentation and baking. The use of gelatinized starch as an alternative for gluten seems promising. In this project, rice bread was made using pregelatinized extruded rice flour as a gluten substitute. Pre-gelatinized rice flours (PRF) were manufactured in a single screw Brabender extruder, varying extrusion temperature (108-192 degrees C) and the moisture of the raw material (19.2 - 24.8%), and were used in a proportion of 10 g for every 100 g of raw rice flour, in the production of gluten-free bread. Results showed that rice flour extruded at a high temperature (180 degrees) and low moisture content (20%), rendered bread with the best technological characteristics, presenting crust and crumb color similar to those of conventional wheat bread, although with volume and texture not as satisfactory in the same comparison.
17250976	Recent large-scale transcriptomic analyses have identified numerous endogenously encoded cis-antisense RNAs that are thought to play important roles in diverse cellular processes although comprehensive comparative studies among multiple species have yet to be performed. To investigate conserved genomic features across various species that may be related to sense-antisense regulation, we performed comparative analysis of approximately 1000-2000 cis-encoded antisense RNA pairs from five model eukaryotes (Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, Drosophila melanogaster, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Oryza sativa). Analysis of overlapping patterns relative to the exon-intron structure revealed that the number of pairs sharing the 3' part of the transcripts was larger than that of the 5'-sharing pairs except in rice. Moreover, most of the well-conserved sense-antisense pairs between human and mouse exhibited 3'-overlaps, suggesting that regulatory mechanisms involving these regions may be important in sense-antisense transcription. Functional classification using Gene Ontology revealed that genes related to catalytic activity, nucleotide binding, DNA metabolism, and mitochondria were preferentially distributed within the set of exon-overlapping sense-antisense genes compared to the non-exon-overlapping group in animals. Despite the numerous sense-antisense pairs identified in human and mouse individually, the number of conserved pairs was extremely small (6.6% of the entire set). Whereas both genes of most of the conserved sense-antisense pairs had protein-coding potential, nearly half of the non-conserved pairs included a non-coding RNA, suggesting that non-coding sense-antisense RNAs may function in species-specific regulatory pathways.
1725171	Cross-allergenicity between five cereal grains including rice, wheat, corn, Japanese millet (Panicum crus-galli L. var. frumentaceum Trin.) and Italian millet (Setaria italica Beauv. var. germanica schrad.) was examined by radioallergosorbent test (RAST) and RAST inhibition assay. There were significant close correlations between every combinations of RAST values for the five cereal grain extracts. RAST inhibition assay of each extract against RAST discs coupled with other cereal grain extracts indicated marked cross-reactivity of IgE binding between these cereal grain extracts. Rice protein 16KD (RP16KD) was shown to be one of major allergens in rice grain extracts by immunoblotting analysis, histamine release assay from human leukocytes and RAST inhibition. Next, the involvement of RP16KD in the cross-allergenicity between these cereals was investigated. RAST values for RP16KD significantly correlated with that for Italian millet as well as rice but not with those for corn and wheat. There was a trend of positive correlation between RAST values for RP16KD and Japanese millet. In the RAST inhibition assay using sera with positive RAST for these five cereal grain extracts and RP16KD, RP16KD inhibited IgE binding to these all cereal discs in a dose-dependent manner. Similarly, all of the five cereal grain extracts showed an effective decrease in IgE binding to the RP16KD disc. These results indicated possible participation of IgE binding structure on RP16KD in cross-allergenicity between these cereal grain extracts in the Poaceae family.
17251928	Few observational studies have investigated dietary fiber intake and dietary glycemic index (GI) and glycemic load (GL) simultaneously in relation to obesity, particularly in non-Western populations. We examined the associations between dietary fiber intake and dietary GI and GL, and body mass index (BMI) in young Japanese women. Cross-sectional study. A total of 3931 female Japanese dietetic students aged 18-20 years from 53 institutions in Japan. Dietary fiber intake and dietary GI and GL (GI for glucose=100) were assessed by a validated, self-administered, diet history questionnaire. BMI was calculated from self-reported body weight and height. Mean values of BMI, dietary fiber intake, dietary GI and dietary GL were 21.0 kg/m(2), 6.5 g/4186 kJ, 65.1 and 82.1/4186 kJ, respectively. White rice (GI=77) was the major contributor to dietary GI and GL (45.8%). After controlling for potential dietary and nondietary confounding factors, dietary fiber intake was negatively correlated with BMI (adjusted mean=21.1 kg/m(2) in the lowest and 20.7 kg/m(2) in the highest quintiles; P for trend=0.0007). Conversely, dietary GI and GL were independently positively correlated with BMI (20.8 and 21.2 kg/m(2); P for trend=0.03, and 20.5 and 21.5 kg/m(2); P for trend=0.0005, respectively). Dietary fiber intake showed an independent negative association with BMI, and dietary GI and GL showed an independent positive association with BMI among relatively lean young Japanese women.
17252771	A nano filter showing the Knudsen flow was demonstrated by a modification of a membrane constructed from rice husk silica. The membrane was prepared by pressing and sintering micron sized rice husk silica with 4 nm pores. The membrane showed a permeability of 5.2 x 10(-8) mol m(-1) sec(-1) Pa(-1) for H2 and ratios of gas permeability 2.1 and 3.2 for k(H2)/k(CH4) and k(H2)/k(CO2), respectively. When the membrane was treated by filtration of approximately 100 nm sized rice husk silica particles, the permeability decreased to 4.9 x 10(-8) mol m(-1) sec(-1) Pa(-1) and the ratios increased to 2.2 and 3.4. In the case of the membrane after treatments with the dispersion and chemical deposition of tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS), the corresponding permeability and ratios of the membrane were 1.8 x 10(-8) mol m(-1) sec(-1) Pa(-1), and 2.9 and 4.5, respectively. From the change of the ratio of gas permeability for the membrane with modifications, it is suggested that approximately 100 nm sized rice husk silica particles pack the large pores among the micron sized rice husk silica particles while the chemical deposition of tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS) reveals the gas flow through 4 nm pores in the rice husk silica by blocking large pores.
17252796	PEMFC (Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Fuel Cell) is widely considered as an energy conversion system from the chemical energy of hydrogen to electric energy. But, hydrogen fuel obtained from hydrocarbons has trace amount of carbon monoxide which is a potential poison for platinum electrode at the cell operating temperature approximately 100 degrees C and it becomes a huddle for the general usage of PEMFC. On the other hand PAFC (Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cell) operates at a higher temperature and the platinum electrode oxidizes carbon monoxide poison while there is a leakage problem of the liquid phase. To combine the advantages of two fuel cells, the electrolyte systems of phosphoric acid supported silica on ceramics are recently being tested. In this study, we investigated the nm pore rice husk silica as a support for phosphoric acid and tested the electric conductivity of the silica plate and the characteristics of a prototype fuel cell H2/Pt/H3PO4 / RHS/Pt/O2 at 100-200 degrees C. The conductivity of H3PO4/RHS was 8 mS cm(-1) above 175 degrees C under 200 torr H2O. In the fuel cell, the apparent conductance of the electrolyte from I-V characteristics was 2.45 mS/cm at 160 degrees C under 1 atm H2 and air at present.
17253160	Fly ash (FA) from coal in Orissa (India) was used for amending soil at levels equivalent to 0, 1, 2.5, 5, 10 and 15 metric tons per ha in which, rice was grown and elemental residues of amended soil and plant parts were enumerated. FA amendments caused significant improvement in soil quality and germination percentage of rice seeds. Growth (shoot length, leaf area and pigment composition) and yield (panicle length, seeds per panicle, seed weight and yield per plant) of rice increased with an increase in FA amendments. Catalase and peroxidase activities of young leaves increased initially in plants cultivated at lower FA levels but declined sharply at higher FA levels while the protein content of seeds improved at higher FA levels. Sodium content of rice-roots did not change with FA amendments but the contents of K, P, Mn, Ni, Co, Pb, Zn, Cu, Cr, and Cd showed a progressive increase. Seeds of plants grown in FA amended soils accumulated Cu, Pb, Cr and Cd in amounts below allowable limits. Based on the data obtained we found that flooded-rice soil amended at 10 metric tons FA per ha level of FA not only improved the physical properties of the soil but also contributed to better growth and yield of rice.
17253985	We isolated 13 804 T-DNA flanking sequence tags (FSTs) from a T-DNA insertion library of rice. A comprehensive analysis of the 13 804 FSTs revealed a number of features demonstrating a highly non-random distribution of the T-DNA insertions in the rice genome: T-DNA insertions were biased towards large chromosomes, not only in the absolute number of insertions but also in the relative density; within chromosomes the insertions occurred more densely in the distal ends, and less densely in the centromeric regions; the distribution of the T-DNA insertions was highly correlated with that of full-length cDNAs, but the correlations were highly heterogeneous among the chromosomes; T-DNA insertions strongly disfavored transposable element (TE)-related sequences, but favored genic sequences with a strong bias toward the 5' upstream and 3' downstream regions of the genes; T-DNA insertions preferentially occurred among the various classes of functional genes, such that the numbers of insertions were in excess in certain functional categories but were deficient in other categories. The analysis of DNA sequence compositions around the T-DNA insertion sites also revealed several prominent features, including an elevated bendability from -200 to 200 bp relative to the insertion sites, an inverse relationship between the GC and TA skews, and reversed GC and TA skews in sequences upstream and downstream of the insertion sites, with both GC and TA skews equal to zero at the insertion sites. It was estimated that 365 380 insertions are needed to saturate the genome with P = 0.95, and that the 45 441 FSTs that have been isolated so far by various groups tagged 14 287 of the 42 653 non-TE related genes.
17254555	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a large new class of small non-coding RNAs. To date, hundreds of microRNAs have been identified in plants. MicroRNAs play important roles in post-transcriptional gene regulation by targeting mRNAs for cleavage or repressing translation. To better understand microRNA function, we have used an oligonucleotide microarray to monitor rice (Oryza sativa) microRNA expression profile under drought stress. Two drought-induced microRNAs were identified. Furthermore, miR-169g was confirmed as the only member induced by drought among the miR-169 family and the induction of miR-169g was more prominent in roots than in shoots. Sequence analysis revealed occurrence of two proximate DREs (dehydration-responsive element) in the upstream of the MIR-169g, suggesting that miR-169g expression may be regulated directly by CBF/DREBs.
17254682	Phytoremediation is of great interest to remediate soil contaminated with hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX) and 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT). The ability of 4 agronomic plants (maize, soybean, wheat and rice) to take up these explosives and their fate in plants were investigated. Plants were grown for 42 days on soil contaminated with [(14)C]RDX or [(14)C]TNT. Then, each part was analyzed for its radioactivity content and the percentage of bound and soluble residues was determined following extractions. Extracts were analyzed by radio-HPLC. More than 80% of uptaken RDX was translocated to aerial tissues, up to 64.5 mgg(-1) of RDX. By contrast, TNT was little translocated to leaves since less than 25% of uptaken TNT was accumulated in aerial parts. Concentrations of TNT residues were 20 times lower than for RDX uptake. TNT was highly metabolized to bound residues (more than 50% of radioactivity) whereas RDX was mainly found in its parent form in aerial parts.
17255233	A study was carried out at Karima Village in the Mwea Rice Irrigation Scheme in Kenya to assess the impact of rice husbandry and associated land cover change for mosquito larval abundance. A multi-temporal, land use land cover (LULC) classification dataset incorporating distributions of Anopheles arabiensis aquatic larval habitats was produced in ERDAS Imagine version 8.7 using combined images from IKONOS at 4m spatial resolution from 2005 and Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM)trade mark classification data at 30-meters spatial resolution from 1988 for Karima. Of 207 larval habitats sampled, most were either canals (53.4%) or paddies (45.9%), and only one habitat was classified as a seep (0.5%). The proportion of habitats that were poorly drained was 55.1% compared with 44.9% for the habitats that were well drained. An LULC base map was generated. A grid incorporating each rice paddy was overlaid over the LULC maps stratifying each cell based on levels of irrigation. Paddies/grid cells were classified as 1) well irrigated and 2) poorly irrigated. Early stages of rice growth showed peak larval production during the early part of the cropping cycle (rainy season). Total LULC change for Karima over 16 years was 59.8%. Of those areas in which change was detected, the LULC change for Karima was 4.30% for rice field to built environment, 8.74% for fallow to built environment, 7.19% for rice field to fallow, 19.03% built to fallow, 5.52% for fallow to rice field, and 8.35% for built environment to rice field. Of 207 aquatic habitats in Karima, 54.1 (n = 112) were located in LULC change sites and 45.9 (n = 95) were located in LULC non-change sites. Rice crop LULC maps derived from IKONOS and TM data in geographic information systems can be used to investigate the relationship between rice cultivation practices and higher anopheline larval habitat distribution.
17255236	Introduction of irrigation projects in developing nations has often been blamed for aggravating the problem of mosquito-borne diseases by creating ideal larval habitats for vector mosquitoes. However, whereas several studies have demonstrated the relationship between malaria vectors and irrigation, little work has been done on culicine mosquitoes despite their potential in transmission of filariasis and arboviruses and their significant biting nuisance in these areas. This study examined the diversity of Culex mosquito fauna and their larval habitats at two sites (Murinduko and Kiamachiri) in Mwea, Kenya over a 12-month period. The habitat types present at each site within a 200-meter radius around the study village, including randomly selected paddies and canals, were sampled every two weeks to examine the relationship between vegetation cover, water depth, turbidity, and Culex larval counts. Ten culicine species belonging to four genera were identified, with 73.1% of the total collection comprising of Culex duttoni and Cx. quinquefasciatus. Other species collected included Cx. annulioris, Cx. poicilipes, Cx. cinereus, Cx. tigripes, Cx. trifilatus, Aedes spp., Coquilettidia fuscopennata, and Ficalbia splendens. Murinduko was more diverse than Kiamachiri in terms of species richness (10 versus 7 species) and larval habitat diversity (11 versus 8 habitat types). Paddies, canals, and rain pools were the most diverse habitats in terms of species richness, and ditches, rock pools, and tree holes were the least diverse. Principal component and correlation analyses showed a strong association between three Culex species and the measured habitat characteristics. Culex poicilipes was strongly associated with floating vegetation, Cx. annulioris with clean water containing emergent vegetation, and Cx. quinquefasciatus was associated with turbid water. Seasonal changes in larval counts in water reservoirs and pool and ditch habitats were closely associated with rainfall. These findings provide important information on larval habitat preference for different Culex species, which will be useful in designing and implementation of larval control operations.
17255841	To compare glucose and rice-based oral rehydration solution with rice-based oral rehydration solution containing recombinant human lactoferrin and recombinant human lysozyme in diarrhea outcomes. We conducted a randomized, double-blind controlled trial in children with acute diarrhea and dehydration. One hundred and forty children 5 to 33 months old were block randomized to receive low osmolarity WHO-ORS (G-ORS), rice-based ORS (R-ORS), or rice-based ORS plus lactoferrin and lysozyme (Lf/Lz-R-ORS). Intake and output were monitored for 48 h in the ORU, with continued monitoring through home and clinic follow-up for 14 d. The G-ORS and R-ORS groups did not show any differences in diarrhea outcomes and were therefore combined as the control group. Intent-to-treat analysis showed a significant decrease in duration of diarrhea (3.67 d vs 5.21 d, P = 0.05) in the Lf/Lz-R-ORS group as compared with the control group and a significant increase in the number of children who achieved 48 h with solid stool, 85% vs 69% (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences [corrected] in volume of diarrhea or [corrected] the percentage of children who had a new diarrhea episode after achieving the endpoint. Addition of recombinant human lactoferrin and lysozyme to a rice-based oral rehydration solution had beneficial effects on children with acute diarrhea.
17256615	Sprague-Dawley rats were reared by environmental mercury contaminated rice to survey the potential health risk of Wanshan mercury mining area. Electron spin resonance (ESR) was introduced to detect the species and the intensities of free radicals, using spin trap 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO). The results showed that the mercury-contaminated rice significantly increased the levels of free radicals and MDA in rat brain at 7 days (p < 0.05). ESR spectrums showed that the principal spin adducts resulted from the trapping of alkyl free radical (alphaH = 22.7 x 10(-4)T +/- 1.6 x 10(-4)T, alphaN = 15.5 x 10(-4)T +/- 0.5 x 10(-4)T), and hydroxyl radical. Levels of free radicals and MDA increased slowly until after 90-day exposure period (83%, 100%). Element correlation analysis showed high correlations of mercury and selenium in the brain of rat fed with Wanshan rice, suggesting that the coexisting selenium in rice exhibited antagonistic effects on both mercury accumulation and toxicity. The slight increases of free radicals in rat brain at 7, 20 and 30-day exposure periods should be related with the scavenger effect of Se.
17256811	In this work, an ordered mesoporous titania film was introduced to coat a capillary by means of sol-gel technique. Sol-gel titania coating was developed for the preconcentration/separation of trace V, Cr and Cu by capillary microextraction (CME), and the adsorbed analytes were eluted for electrothermal vaporization inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ETV-ICP-MS) detection. By immobilizing sol-gel titania on the inner surface of a fused-silica microextraction capillary, the sol-gel titania coating was prepared easily. Its adsorption properties, stability and the factors affecting the adsorption behaviors of V, Cr and Cu were investigated in detail. At pH range of 7 to 9, the titania-coated capillary (50 cm x 0.25 mm) is selective towards V, Cr and Cu, and the target analytes could be desorbed quantitatively with 50 microl of 1.0 mol l(-1) HNO3 at the rate of 0.05 ml min(-1). With a consumption of 2 ml sample solution, an enrichment factor of 33.3, and a detection limit (3 s) of 1.1 pg ml(-1) (10.5 fg) for V; 3.3 pg ml(-1) (33.0 fg) for Cr and 6.3 pg ml(-1) (63.1 fg) for Cu respectively were obtained. The precisions Relative Standard Deviations (RSDs) for nine replicate measurements of 1 ng ml(-1) V, Cr and Cu were 3.4, 5.1 and 6.4%, respectively. The proposed method has been applied to the determination of V, Cr and Cu in human urine and lake water, and the recoveries for these elements were 89.2 approximately 105%. The developed method was also applied to the determination of the target elements in NIES No. 10-a (rice flour-unpolished) and NIES No. 9 (sargasso) certified reference materials, and the results found are in good agreement with the certified values.
17256955	This study describes a new and suitable method for the rapid evaluation of rice (Oryza sativa, L.) aroma by analysis of the volatile fraction using solid-phase microextraction coupled with mass spectrometry (SPME/MS). The abundance list of unresolved mass fragments of the SPME extracted volatile fraction formed the "fingerprint" of a rice sample. Fingerprints of 61 rice samples were recorded in duplicate. Pollutants originating from the extraction system induce fingerprint background that could be lowered by careful cleaning of vials and caps and by exclusion of specific mass fragments. A good discrimination between scented and nonscented rice samples was obtained using the SIMCA procedure. Most of the discriminating mass fragments could be directly or indirectly assigned to potential aromatic molecules present in rice.
17256960	As the cultivars of rice markedly affect eating quality, processing suitability, and price, identification or differentiation of rice cultivar is very important. We developed suitable 14 STS (sequence-tagged site) primers for PCR (polymerase chain reaction), and it became possible to differentiate 60 Japanese dominant rice cultivars from each other using template DNA extracted and purified from rice grains. A multiplex primer set was shown to be useful to effectively differentiate rice cultivars produced in various countries by PCR. A novel multiplex primer set for PCR has been developed to differentiate KoshihikariBL, which is closely related with the premium cultivar, Koshihikari, in Japan. The application of the cultivar identification method by PCR method to commercially processed rice products was investigated. We developed an enzyme treatment method, in which the gelatinized starch is decomposed by the heat-stable alpha-amylase at 80 degrees C, followed by the hydrolysis of proteins by proteinase K with sodium dodecyl sulfate and purification of extracted DNAs by phenol/chloroform/iso-amyl alcohol. It became possible to identify the material rice cultivars of the commercially processed rice products, such as cooked rice, rice cake, or rice cracker, by a PCR method using template DNA prepared by the enzyme treatment method and novel multiplex primer sets.
17257169	Helitrons are newcomers among eukaryotic DNA transposons and have originally been identified by computational analysis in the genomes of Arabidopsis, rice and nematode. They are distinguished from other transposons in their structural features, and their proposed transposition mechanisms are involved in rolling circle replication. Computer-predicted autonomous Helitrons with conserved terminal sequences 5'-TC and CTRR-3' are presumed to encode a putative transposase, Rep/Hel-TPase, which contains a characteristic nuclease/ligase domain for the replication-initiation protein (Rep) and a DNA helicase domain (Hel). Plant Helitrons are thought to encode an additional transposase, RPA-TPase, which is related to the largest subunit of the replication protein A (RPA70). Although Helitrons are found in diverse genomes, neither an autonomous element nor a transposition event has been reported. Here we show that a spontaneous pearly-s mutant of Ipomoea tricolor cv. Pearly Gates, exhibiting white flowers and isolated in approximately 1940, has an 11.5-kbp novel Helitron, named Hel-It1, integrated into the DFR-B gene for anthocyanin pigmentation. Hel-It1 shows the predicted plant Helitron structure for an autonomous element with the conserved termini and carrying the two putative transposase genes, Rep/Hel-TPase and RPA-TPase, which contain a nonsense and a frameshift mutation, respectively. Hel-It1-related elements are scattered in the Ipomoea genome, and only a fraction of the pearly-s plants were found to carry Hel-It1 at another insertion site. The pearly-s mutant appears to bear an autonomous element and to express the wild-type RPA-TPase transcripts. The structures of a putative autonomous element and its transposase genes are discussed.
17257172	Substantial levels of trehalose accumulate in bacteria, fungi, and invertebrates, where it serves as a storage carbohydrate or as a protectant against environmental stresses. In higher plants, trehalose is detected at fairly low levels; therefore, a regulatory or signaling function has been proposed for this molecule. In many organisms, trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase is the enzyme governing the final step of trehalose biosynthesis. Here we report that OsTPP1 and OsTPP2 are the two major trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase genes expressed in vegetative tissues of rice. Similar to results obtained from our previous OsTPP1 study, complementation analysis of a yeast trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase mutant and activity measurement of the recombinant protein demonstrated that OsTPP2 encodes a functional trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase enzyme. OsTPP2 expression is transiently induced in response to chilling and other abiotic stresses. Enzymatic characterization of recombinant OsTPP1 and OsTPP2 revealed stringent substrate specificity for trehalose 6-phosphate and about 10 times lower K(m) values for trehalose 6-phosphate as compared with trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase enzymes from microorganisms. OsTPP1 and OsTPP2 also clearly contrasted with microbial enzymes, in that they are generally unstable, almost completely losing activity when subjected to heat treatment at 50 degrees C for 4 min. These characteristics of rice trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase enzymes are consistent with very low cellular substrate concentration and tightly regulated gene expression. These data also support a plant-specific function of trehalose biosynthesis in response to environmental stresses.
17257654	A follow-up study was designed to compare the 24-year overall and disease-specific mortality in Yucheng people who were highly exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls/dibenzofurans (PCBs/PCDFs) to that in the background population in Taiwan. In 1979, the Yucheng (oil-disease in Chinese) incident occurred in central Taiwan involving approximately 2000 victims due to ingestion of rice oil contaminated with PCBs/PCDFs. Long-term follow-up of these people has been continued for 24 years. Standardized mortality ratios were calculated using the Taiwan population as comparison group. Overall and disease-specific mortality was compared between Yucheng and background populations. Mortality from chronic liver disease and cirrhoses was increased in the Yucheng men, but not in women, in the early period after exposure. Cancer mortality was not increased in the Yucheng population up to 24 years after exposure. SLE in females was highly increased in the later period after PCB/PCDF exposure. Mortality from disease in any other organ system was not significantly different between Yucheng and background populations. The study provided a long-term mortality picture after the Taiwanese PCB/PCDF exposure incident. In addition to re-confirming the increase in liver mortality, we found high mortality of SLE among exposed population. This finding highlights the importance of further investigating the immunological effects associated with PCB/PCDF exposure.
17257831	The potential of co-firing rice husk and bamboo with coal was studied in a bench-scale pulverized fuel combustion reactor. Experimental parameters including biomass blending ratio in the fuel mixture, biomass grinding size, excess air ratio and relative moisture content in the biomass were investigated. Particulate Matters in the forms of PM(10), PM(2.1), ultra fine particles as well as the associated Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) emissions were evaluated. An operation range between 10% and 30% of biomass to coal ratio was found to be the optimum range in terms of minimum pollutant emissions per unit energy output. Co-combustion of coal with biomass seemed to have the effect of moving the fly-ash in PM(2.1) to a larger size range, but increasing the number counts of the ultra fine particles. It was noted that the much higher volatile matter content in the biomass fuels has played a key role in improving the combustion performance in the system. However, slagging, fouling and formation of clinker could be the issues requiring attention when using biomass co-combustion in conventional boilers.
17258802	We investigated the antidepressant-like effects of pre-germinated brown rice (PGBR) and polished rice (PR) pellets, respectively, in comparison with control (AIN-93G) pellets in the forced swimming test and the learned helplessness paradigm in mice. Mice were fed respective pellets for 30 days. The immobility time on the 2nd day of the forced swimming test was shorter in mice fed with PR or PGBR pellets than in mice fed with control pellets. In the learned helplessness paradigm, the number of escape failures in mice fed with PGBR pellets was significantly smaller than that in mice fed with control pellets. Compared to the control group, an increase in serotonin (5-HT) levels, but not in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels, and a decrease in the 5-HIAA/5-HT ratio were observed in the frontal cortex of the PGBR group. There were no differences among the three groups in terms of 5-HT and 5-HIAA levels and their ratios in the hippocampus and striatum. The levels of noradrenaline and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol were not affected by the food pellets in all the brain regions tested. Additionally, we could not detect any differences in the expression of the 5-HT1A receptor and the 5-HT transporter in the frontal cortex of the three groups. These results suggest that the increase of 5-HT levels in the mouse frontal cortex contributes to the antidepressant-like effects of PGBR pellets.
17259261	Although the role of H3K9 methylation in rice (Oryza sativa) is unclear, in Arabidopsis thaliana the loss of histone H3K9 methylation by mutation of Kryptonite [also known as SU(VAR)3-9 homolog] reduces genome-wide DNA methylation and increases the transcription of transposable elements. Here, we report that rice SDG714 (for SET Domain Group Protein714) encodes a histone H3K9-specific methyltransferase. The C terminus of SDG714 confers enzymatic activity and substrate specificity, whereas the N terminus localizes it in the nucleus. Loss-of-function mutants of SDG714 (SDG714IR transformants) generated by RNA interference display a mostly glabrous phenotype as a result of the lack of macro trichomes in glumes, leaves, and culms compared with control plants. These mutants also show decreased levels of CpG and CNG cytosine methylation as well as H3K9 methylation at the Tos17 locus, a copia-like retrotransposon widely used for the generation of rice mutants. Most interestingly, loss of function of SDG714 can enhance transcription and cause the transposition of Tos17. Together, these results suggest that histone H3K9 methylation mediated by SDG714 is involved in DNA methylation, the transposition of transposable elements, and genome stability in rice.
17259286	Rice (Oryza sativa) is a typical silicon (Si) accumulator and requires a large amount of Si for high-yield production. Recently, a gene (Low silicon rice1 [Lsi1]) encoding a Si transporter was identified in rice roots. Here, we characterized Lsi1 in terms of spatial distribution and temporal variation using both physiological and molecular approaches. Results from a multicompartment transport box experiment showed that the major site for Si uptake was located at the basal zone (>10 mm from the root tip) of the roots rather than at the root tips (<10 mm from the root tip). Consistent with the Si uptake pattern, Lsi1 expression and distribution of the Lsi1 protein were found only in the basal zone of roots. In the basal zones of the seminal, crown, and lateral roots, the Lsi1 protein showed a polar localization at the distal side of both the exodermis and endodermis, where the Casparian bands are formed. This indicates that Lsi1 is required for the transport of Si through the cells of the exodermis and endodermis. Expression of Lsi1 displayed a distinct diurnal pattern. Furthermore, expression was transiently enhanced around the heading stage, which coincides with a high Si requirement during this growth stage. Expression was down-regulated by dehydration stress and abscisic acid, suggesting that expression of Lsi1 may be regulated by abscisic acid.
17259288	Root hairs are long tubular outgrowths that form on the surface of specialized epidermal cells. They are required for nutrient and water uptake and interact with the soil microflora. Here we show that the Oryza sativa cellulose synthase-like D1 (OsCSLD1) gene is required for root hair development, as rice (Oryza sativa) mutants that lack OsCSLD1 function develop abnormal root hairs. In these mutants, while hair development is initiated normally, the hairs elongate less than the wild-type hairs and they have kinks and swellings along their length. Because the csld1 mutants develop the same density and number of root hairs along their seminal root as the wild-type plants, we propose that OsCSLD1 function is required for hair elongation but not initiation. Both gene trap expression pattern and in situ hybridization analyses indicate that OsCSLD1 is expressed in only root hair cells. Furthermore, OsCSLD1 is the only member of the four rice CSLD genes that shows root-specific expression. Given that the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) gene KOJAK/AtCSLD3 is required for root hair elongation and is expressed in the root hair, it appears that OsCSLD1 may be the functional ortholog of KOJAK/AtCSLD3 and that these two genes represent the root hair-specific members of this family of proteins. Thus, at least part of the mechanism of root hair morphogenesis in Arabidopsis is conserved in rice.
17259359	Cereulide-producing Bacillus cereus can cause an emetic type of food-borne disease that mimics the symptoms provoked by Staphylococcus aureus. Based on the recently discovered genetic background for cereulide formation, a novel 5' nuclease (TaqMan) real-time PCR assay was developed to provide a rapid and sensitive method for the specific detection of emetic B. cereus in food. The TaqMan assay includes an internal amplification control and primers and a probe designed to target a highly specific part of the cereulide synthetase genes. Additionally, a specific SYBR green I assay was developed and extended to create a duplex SYBR green I assay for the one-step identification and discrimination of the two emesis-causing food pathogens B. cereus and S. aureus. The inclusivity and exclusivity of the assay were assessed using a panel of 100 strains, including 23 emetic B. cereus and 14 S. aureus strains. Different methods for DNA isolation from artificially contaminated foods were evaluated, and established real-time assays were used to analyze two recent emetic food poisonings in southern Germany. One of the food-borne outbreaks included 17 children visiting a day care center who vomited after consuming a reheated rice dish, collapsed, and were hospitalized; the other case concerned a single food-poisoning incident occurring after consumption of cauliflower. Within 2 h, the etiological agent of these food poisonings was identified as emetic B. cereus by using the real-time PCR assay.
17259646	Plant growth is severely affected by toxic concentrations of heavy metals. On characterizing the heavy metal-induced signalling pathways, the effects of cadmium (CdCl2) and copper (CuCl2) on MBP (myelin basic protein) kinase activities in Oryza sativa L. cv. TNG67 were analysed and it was found that Cd2+-induced 42 kDa MBP kinase has the characteristics of a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase. This study confirmed that the 42 kDa kinase-active band contains, at least, the activities of OsMPK3 and OsMPK6. Then, the heavy metal signal transduction pathways leading to MAP kinase activation in rice roots were examined. Pretreatment with sodium benzoate, a hydroxyl radical scavenger, attenuated Cd2+- or Cu2+-induced MAP kinase activation. The Cd2+-, but not Cu2+-, induced MAP kinase activities were suppressed by diphenylene iodonium (DPI), an NADPH oxidase inhibitor, and Cd2+ induced NADPH oxidase-like activities, suggesting that NADPH oxidases may be involved in Cd2+-induced MAP kinase activation. Using a Ca2+ indicator, it was demonstrated that Cd2+ and Cu2+ induce Ca2+ accumulation in rice roots. The Cd2+- and Cu2+-induced MAP kinase activation required the involvement of Ca2+-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3 kinase) as shown by the inhibitory effect of a CDPK antagonist, W7, and a PI3 kinase inhibitor, wortmannin, respectively. Furthermore, bongkrekic acid (BK), a mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening blocker, suppressed Cd2+-, but not Cu2+-, induced MAP kinase activation, indicating that Cd2+-induced MAP kinase activities are dependent on the functional state of mitochondria. Collectively, these findings imply that Cd2+ and Cu2+ may induce MAP kinase activation through distinct signalling pathways. Moreover, it was found that the 42 kDa MAP kinase activities are higher in Cd-tolerant cultivars than in Cd-sensitive cultivars. Therefore, the Cd-induced 42 kDa MAP kinase activation may confer Cd tolerance in rice plants.
17260977	Ab initio G3(MP2,CC)//B3LYP calculations of the potential energy surface (PES) for the formation of indene involving hydrocarbon species abundant in combustion, including benzene, phenyl, propargyl, and methyl radicals, and acetylene, have been performed to investigate the build-up of an additional cyclopenta moiety over the existing six-member aromatic ring. They were followed by statistical calculations of high-pressure-limit thermal rate constants in the temperature range of 300-3000 K for all reaction steps utilizing conventional Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) and transition-state (TST) theories. The hydrogen abstraction acetylene addition (HACA) type mechanism, which involves the formation of benzyl radical followed by addition of acetylene, is shown to have low barriers (12-16 kcal/mol) and to be a viable candidate to account for indene formation in combustion flames, such as the 1,3-butadiene flame, where this mechanism was earlier suggested as the major indene formation route (Granata et al. Combust. Flame 2002, 131, 273). The mechanism of indene formation involving the addition of propargyl radical to benzene and rearrangements on the C9H9 PES is demonstrated to have higher barriers for all reaction steps as compared to an alternative pathway, which starts from the recombination of phenyl and propargyl radicals and then proceeds by activation of the C9H8 adducts by H abstraction or elimination followed by five-member ring closure in C9H7 and H addition to the 2-indenyl radical. The suggested pathways represent potentially important contributors to the formation of indene in combustion flames, and the computed rate constants can be utilized in kinetic simulations of the reaction mechanisms leading to indene and to higher cyclopentafused polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (CP-PAH).
17261011	The possibility to identify or develop new rice cultivars with low glycemic response was investigated. Twelve rice cultivars with a narrow range of amylose contents were selected based on their wide variation in rapid viscoanalyzer (RVA) pasting breakdown to study the relationship between starch digestibility and amylopectin fine structure and pasting properties. Rice flour samples were cooked for in vitro digestibility analysis using the standard Englyst assay. RVA was performed for pasting properties of starches. Results showed that rapidly digestible starch (RDS) was highly and negatively correlated (r = -0.86, p < 0.01; r = -0.81, p < 0.01) with FrI long and FrII intermediate/short debranched amylopectin linear chains, respectively, and positively correlated (r = 0.79; p < 0.01) with FrIII very short linear chains. Slowly digestible (SDS) starch was positively correlated (r = 0.80, p < 0.01; 0.76, p < 0.01) with FrI and FrII, respectively, and negatively correlated (r = -0.76, p < 0.01) with FrIII. RVA breakdown viscosity was positively correlated (r = 0.88, p < 0.01) with RDS and negatively correlated (r = -0.89, p < 0.01) with SDS. Thus, the RVA method potentially could be used as a screening tool for starch digestion properties. This study reveals a molecular basis in amylopectin fine structure variability for starch digestion properties in rice cultivars and could have value in identifying slowly digesting cultivars as well as developing a breeding strategy to produce low glycemic rice cultivars. Rice; starch; RVA; amylopectin; digestibility.
17261177	The highlands of Madagascar present an unstable transmission pattern of malaria. The population has no immunity, and the central highlands have been the sites of epidemics with particularly high fatality. The most recent epidemic occurred in the 1980s, and caused about 30,000 deaths. The fight against malaria epidemics in the highlands has been based on indoor insecticide spraying to control malaria vectors. Any preventive programme involving generalised cover in the highlands will require very substantial logistical support. We used multicriteria evaluation, by the method of weighted linear combination, as basis for improved targeting of actions by determining priority zones for intervention. Image analysis and field validation showed the accuracy of mapping rice fields to be between 82.3% and 100%, and the Kappa coefficient was 0.86 to 0.99.A significant positive correlation was observed between the abundance of the vector Anopheles funestus and temperature; the correlation coefficient was 0.599 (p < 0.001). A significant negative correlation was observed between vector abundance and human population density: the correlation coefficient was -0.551 (p < 0.003). Factor weights were determined by pair-wise comparison and the consistency ratio was 0.04. Risk maps of the six study zones were obtained according to a gradient of risk. Nine of thirteen results of alert confirmed by the Epidemiological Surveillance Post were in concordance with the risk map. This study is particularly valuable for the management of vector control programmes, and particularly the reduction of the vector population with a view to preventing disease. The risk map obtained can be used to identify priority zones for the management of resources, and also help avoid systematic and generalised spraying throughout the highlands: such spraying is particularly difficult and expensive. The accuracy of the mapping, both as concerns time and space, is dependent on the availability of data. Continuous monitoring of malaria transmission factors must be undertaken to detect any changes. A regular case notification allows risk map to be verified. These actions should therefore be implemented so that risk maps can be satisfactorily assessed.
17263663	The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) protein superfamily is one of the largest known, with over 120 members in both Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa). Most, but not all, ABC proteins are modularly organized membrane proteins ("ABC transporters") that mediate MgATP-energized transmembrane transport and/or regulate other transporters. The range of processes in which members of the various subclasses of plant ABC transporters have been implicated encompasses polar auxin transport, lipid catabolism, xenobiotic detoxification, disease resistance, and stomatal function. Although it is often possible to predict the likely function of a plant ABC transporter on the basis of its subfamily membership, there are many whose capabilities deviate from what would be predicted from the properties of even their most sequence-related counterparts. When taking account of this and the disparate processes in which the few that have been characterized participate, it is likely that elucidation of the mechanistic basis of any given plant process will necessitate consideration of at least one ABC transporter.
17263873	A wide range of stimuli evoke rapid and transient increases in [Ca2+]cyt in plant cells which are transmitted by protein sensors that contain EF-hand motifs. Here, a group of Oryza sativa L. genes encoding calmodulin (CaM) and CaM-like (CML) proteins that do not possess functional domains other than the Ca2+-binding EF-hand motifs was analyzed. By functional analyses and BLAST searches of the TIGR rice database, a maximum number of 243 proteins that possibly have EF-hand motifs were identified in the rice genome. Using a neighbor-joining tree based on amino acid sequence similarity, five loci were defined as Cam genes and thirty two additional CML genes were identified. Extensive analyses of the gene structures, the chromosome locations, the EF-hand motif organization, expression characteristics including analysis by RT-PCR and a comparative analysis of Cam and CML genes in rice and Arabidopsis are presented. Although many proteins have unknown functions, the complexity of this gene family indicates the importance of Ca2+-signals in regulating cellular responses to stimuli and this family of proteins likely plays a critical role as their transducers.
17265681	Alcoholism is a growing medical and public health issue both in adult and in younger populations. It is a multi-aetiological phenomenon influenced by genetic, psychological, cultural and other factors. Alcoholic beverages have traditionally been prepared from various ingredients, such as grapes, malt, and rice. Drinking prevalence has varied and is more pronounced in women and the youth. Alcoholism is shown to be of neurophysiologic origin and may lead to the impairment of all human body systems. The most frequent cause of death in alcoholics are the diseases of the cardiovascular system. Alcoholism at workplace is a very important issue as it affects health, reduces productivity, and may lead to accidents, injuries and decreased working capacity. Alcohol-related difficulties develop much earlier than the clinical picture. The diagnosis of alcoholism includes early detection of alcohol-related problems, so it is necessary to orient the healthcare services towards primary prevention and early intervention.
17267973	A pink-pigmented, facultatively methylotrophic bacterium, strain CBMB20T, isolated from stem tissues of rice, was analysed by a polyphasic approach. Strain CBMB20T utilized 1-aminocyclopropane 1-carboxylate (ACC) as a nitrogen source and produced ACC deaminase. It was related phylogenetically to members of the genus Methylobacterium. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that strain CBMB20T was most closely related to Methylobacterium fujisawaense, Methylobacterium radiotolerans and Methylobacterium mesophilicum; however, DNA-DNA hybridization values were less than 70 % with the type strains of these species. The DNA G+C content of strain CBMB20T was 70.6 mol%. The study presents a detailed phenotypic characterization of strain CBMB20T that allows its differentiation from other Methylobacterium species. In addition, strain CBMB20T is the only known member of the genus Methylobacterium to be described from the phyllosphere of rice. Based on the data presented, strain CBMB20T represents a novel species in the genus Methylobacterium, for which the name Methylobacterium oryzae sp. nov. is proposed, with strain CBMB20T (=DSM 18207T=LMG 23582T=KACC 11585T) as the type strain.
17269325	With reddish yellow soil (RYS) and alluvial purple soil (APS), the two typical paddy soils in the Dongting Lake floodplain of China as test soils, an incubation test was conducted at 25 degrees C to study the dynamic changes of soil microbial biomass and dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen under flooded condition. Three treatments were installed, i.e., control (CK), ammonium sulfate (N), and rice straw powder plus ammonium sulfate (S-N). The results showed that during incubation, soil microbial biomass carbon (SMBC), soil microbial biomass nitrogen (SMBN), soil dissolved organic carbon (SDOC), and soil dissolved organic nitrogen (SDON) reached their maximum initially, decreased thereafter, and tended to be stable. After amending the substrates to the two soils, the averages of SMBC to soil total carbon, SMBN to soil total nitrogen, SDOC to soil total carbon, and SDON to soil total nitrogen were 2% - 3%, 2% - 3%, 1% or so, and 5% - 6%, respectively. In the two soils, the peak values of SMBC in treatment N and those of SMBN, SDOC and SDON in treatment S-N were the highest, while those of SMBC in treatments N and S-N had no significant difference. The peak values of SMBN, SDOC and SDON in RYS were significantly different between treatments N and S-N, while no significant difference was observed between the peak values of SMBN and SDOC in APS, because the fertility of RYS was lower than that of APS. In the first 7 days of incubation, SMBC/SMBN ratio was < 10, while after 14 days of incubation, this ratio was higher in treatment N than in treatment S-N at the same time in the same soil. The SDOC/SDON ratio in all treatments was the highest at the 3rd d, and the lowest at the 28th d of incubation.
17269328	In this paper, allelopathic rice PI312777 (PI) and non-allelopahtic rice Lemont (Le) were grown in the nutrient solution with two levels of phosphorus (P) supply, and their allelopathic effects on Echinochloa crus-galli L. were studied. The results showed that under phosphorous deficiency stress, the inhibitory effect of PI on E. crus-galli root growth had an obvious increase. After growing in the nutrient solution with low P supply (0.5 mg x L(-1)) for 5, 10 and 15 days, the inhibitory rate of PI on E. crus-galli root dry matter increased by 5.64%, 3.89% and 12.13%, respectively, while that of Le did not show the same trend, compared with normal P supply. With low P supply for 5, 10 and 15 days, PI allelopathic effect on the leaf POD activity of E. crus-galli increased by 20.19%, 15.47% and 6.68%, IAAoase activity increased by 18.08%, 17.71% and 12.50%, while NR activity increased by 13.89%, 18.60% and 2.10%, respectively, suggesting that under P deficiency, PI enhanced its allelopathic potential through two pathways, i.e., to increase the weed POD and IAAoase activities to slow down its growth rate, and to decrease the weed NR activity to affect its N uptake.
17269329	With greenhouse plastic film, rice straw plus greenhouse plastic film, soil-mulching plastic film, rice straw, rice straw plus sun-shading net, and sun-shading net as test mulches, this paper studied their effects on the rhizosphere temperature, growth, and physiological properties of flue-cured tobacco. The results showed that after mulching for 22 days, the accumulative rhizosphere temperature at the depth of 5 cm was the highest (424.75 degrees C) for greenhouse plastic film and the lowest (378.75 degrees C) for rice straw plus sun-shading net, while that at the depth of 15 cm was the highest (396.75 degrees C) for greenhouse plastic film and the lowest (368.31 degrees C) for sun-shading net. With the increase of accumulative rhizosphere temperature, the dry weight of above- and underground parts, photosynthesis, and root vigor of flue-cured tobacco tended to increase, and at the 10th day after mulches removal, root biomass had the largest increment in the treatment of soil-mulching plastic film and the smallest increment in the treatment of rice straw plus sun-shading net.
17269350	With the target CO2 concentration of FACE plots being 200 micromol x mol(-1) above that in ambient air, this paper studied the effect of free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) on leaf nitrate reductase activity (NRA) of Oryza sativa L. cultivar Wuxianjing 14. The results showed that FACE obviously increased the NRA of functional leaves at all growth stages, with an average increment of 50%, 20%, 60%, 80% and 30% at the stages of jointing, booting, heading, 10 after heading, and 20 days after heading, respectively, showing a pronounced effect at jointing, heading and 10 days after heading. Nitrogen application rate also had an obvious effect on the absolute value of NRA in functional leaves under FACE condition. The magnitude of NRA in three nitrogen treatments was in the order of normal nitrogen (NN) > low nitrogen (LN) > high nitrogen (HN) at jointing stage, HN > NN > LN at both booting and heading stages, and NN > HN > LN at both 10 days and 20 days after heading, respectively. The interactive effect of FACE and N supply on NAR varied with the growth stage of Wuxianjing 14, being very significant or significant at the stages of jointing and 20 and 10 days after heading, but not significant at booting and heading stages.
17269351	By the method of water culture, this paper studied the effects of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) on the seed germination and seedling growth of rice, with the chlorophyll, protein and proline contents and cytomembrane permeability of seedling leaf measured. The results showed the seed germination rate and vigor index were decreased with increasing concentration of 1,2,4-TCB, showing a definite dose-response relationship, and the seedling growth and root length were inhibited, showing definite time-response and dose-response relationships. The chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, total chlorophyll, and protein contents in seedling leaf decreased with increasing concentration of 1,2,4-TCB, while the free proline content and cytomembrane permeability had a sharp increase when the concentration of 1,2,4-TCB was higher than 15 mg x L(-1). All of these suggested that the damage of rice seedling was a complicated process, which might be related to the structural and functional damage of cellular membrane, protein, and organelles.
17270010	Brachypodium sylvaticum and Brachypodium distachyon were recently proposed as new model plants because of their small genomes and their phylogenetic position between rice and Triticeae crops. We sequenced a 371-kb region in B. sylvaticum, the largest genomic sequence available so far from this species, providing quantitative data on gene conservation, collinearity and phylogeny. We compared it with orthologous regions from rice and wheat. Brachypodium and wheat show perfect macro-collinearity of genetic markers, whereas rice contains an approximately 220-kb inversion. Rice contains almost twice as many genes as Brachypodium in the region studied, whereas wheat has about 40% more. Through comparative annotation, we identified alternative transcripts and improved the annotation for several rice genes, indicating that approximately 15% of rice genes might require re-annotation. Surprisingly, our data suggest that 10-15% of functional sequences in small grass genomes may not encode any proteins. From available genomic and expressed sequence tag sequences, we estimated Brachypodium to have diverged from wheat about 35-40 Mya, significantly more recently than the divergence of rice and wheat. However, our data also indicate that orthologous regions from Brachypodium and wheat differ considerably in gene content, thus the Brachypodium genome sequence probably cannot replace genomic studies in the large Triticeae genomes.
17273005	This study aims to investigate the risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in relation to exogenous factors in a rural area of China with a high incidence of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. A population-based case-control study was conducted in Yangzhong County, Jiangsu Province, China, with 355 histologically confirmed esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cases recruited between 1 January 2004 and 28 February 2006 and 408 controls matched by sex and age, randomly selected from the local population. Stratified logistic regression analysis by sex revealed that hot-temperature food items, pork braised in brown sauce and old stocked rice intake could increase the risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma with odds ratio of 2.127 (95% confidence interval: 1.394-3.245), 2.059 (95% confidence interval: 1.417-2.993) and 9.059 (95% confidence interval: 5.930-13.840), respectively, in men and 3.048 (95% confidence interval: 1.733-5.364), 1.914 (95% confidence interval: 1.159-3.162) and 14.532 (95% confidence interval: 7.816-27.019), respectively, in women, whereas diet high in salt and chili, tobacco smoking and alcohol drinking only showed possible risk effects in men with odds ratio 2.338 (95% confidence interval: 1.568-3.485), 3.378 (95% confidence interval: 2.117-5.389), 1.976 (95% confidence interval: 1.337-2.921) and 2.197 (95% confidence interval: 1.510-3.195), respectively. Green tea drinking showed a protective effect in women (odds ratio=0.257; 95% confidence interval: 0.070-0.941). Findings from this study provided evidence that dietary habits, tobacco-smoking and alcohol drinking contribute to the etiology of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. A healthy dietary habit, with smoking cessation and alcohol controlling is of a great importance in the prevention of esophageal cancer.
17273630	To analyze the association between dietary patterns and oral cancer. The study, part of a Latin American multicenter hospital-based case-control study, was conducted in So Paulo, Southeastern Brazil, between November 1998 and March 2002 and included 366 incident cases of oral cancer and 469 controls, frequency-matched with cases by sex and age. Dietary data were collected using a food frequency questionnaire. The risk associated with the intake of food groups defined a posteriori, through factor analysis (called factors), was assessed. The first factor, labeled "prudent," was characterized by the intake of vegetables, fruit, cheese, and poultry. The second factor, "traditional," consisted of the intake of rice, pasta, pulses, and meat. The third factor, "snacks," was characterized as the intake of bread, butter, salami, cheese, cakes, and desserts. The fourth, "monotonous," was inversely associated with the intake of fruit, vegetables and most other food items. Factor scores for each component retained were calculated for cases and controls. After categorization of factor scores into tertiles according to the distribution of controls, odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals were calculated using unconditional multiple logistic regression. "Traditional" factor showed an inverse association with cancer (OR=0.51; 95% CI: 0.32; 0.81, p-value for trend 0.14), whereas "monotonous" was positively associated with the outcome (OR=1.78; 95% CI: 1.78; 2.85, p-value for trend <0.001). The study data suggest that the traditional Brazilian diet, consisting of rice and beans plus moderate amounts of meat, may confer protection against oral cancer, independently of any other risk factors such as alcohol intake and smoking.
17273822	A lesion mimic mutant that we designated Spotted leaf 18 (Spl18) was isolated from 13,000 activation-tagging lines of rice produced by our modified activation-tagging vector and further characterized. Spl18 was dominant and its phenotype was linked to the T-DNA insertion. An ORF was located about 500 bp downstream of the inserted T-DNA, and the deduced protein, designated OsAT1, showed sequence similarity to an acyltransferase whose expression is induced by hypersensitive reaction in tobacco. The transcriptional level of OsAT1 was very low in the WT leaf blade but high in Spl18 leaf blade. In wild-type rice, OsAT1 was transcribed mainly in the young panicle, in the panicle just after heading, and in the leaf sheath. In addition, transcription of the genes for PR protein was upregulated in Spl18, accumulation of phytoalexins (both momilactone A and sakuranetin) was increased, and resistance to blast disease was improved. We then combined OsAT1 genomic DNA downstream of the modified 35S promoter and re-transformed it into rice. Lesion mimic and blast resistance phenotypes were detected in the transgenic lines produced, clearly indicating that overexpression of OsAT1 caused the Spl18 phenotypes. In addition, plants overexpressing OsAT1 showed resistance to bacterial blight.
17273918	The transfer and integration of tRNA genes from organellar genomes to the nuclear genome and between organellar genomes occur extensively in flowering plants. The routes of the genetic materials flowing from one genome to another are biased, limited largely by compatibility of DNA replication and repair systems differing among the organelles and nucleus. After thoroughly surveying the tRNA gene transfer among organellar genomes and the nuclear genome of a domesticated rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica), we found that (i) 15 mitochondrial tRNA genes originate from the plastid; (ii) 43 and 80 nuclear tRNA genes are mitochondrion-like and plastid-like, respectively; and (iii) 32 nuclear tRNA genes have both mitochondrial and plastid counterparts. Besides the native (or genuine) tRNA gene sets, the nuclear genome contains organelle-like tRNA genes that make up a complete set of tRNA species capable of transferring all amino acids. More than 97% of these organelle-like nuclear tRNA genes flank organelle-like sequences over 20 bp. Nearly 40% of them colocalize with two or more other organelle-like tRNA genes. Twelve of the 15 plastid-like mitochondrial tRNA genes possess 5'- and 3'-flanking sequences over 20 bp, and they are highly similar to their plastid counterparts. Phylogenetic analyses of the migrated tRNA genes and their original copies suggest that intergenomic tRNA gene transfer is an ongoing process with noticeable discriminatory routes among genomes in flowering plants.
17274773	Homology modeling of the catalase, CatC cloned and sequenced from rice (Oryza sativa L., cv Ratna an Indica cultivar) has been performed based on the crystal structure of the catalase CatF (PDB code 1m7s) by using the software MODELLER. With the aid of molecular mechanics and molecular dynamics methods, the final model is obtained and is further assessed by PROCHECK and VERIFY - 3D graph, which show that the final refined model is reliable. With this model, a flexible docking study with the hydrogen peroxide, the substrate for catalase, is performed and the results indicate that Arg310, Asp343 and Arg346 in catalase are three important determinant residues in binding as they have strong hydrogen bonding contacts with the substrate. These hydrogen-bonding interactions play an important role for the stability of the complex. Our results may be helpful for further experimental investigations.
17275116	Food poisoning caused by other Bacillus species than B. cereus has been described, but the toxins involved have rarely been isolated. Endospores will survive heat treatment and will germinate and multiply in cooked foods producing toxins under appropriate conditions. We describe a small food poisoning outbreak where three people became ill after a dinner in a Chinese restaurant. Acute symptoms including dizziness, headache, chills and back pain developed during the meal, and a few hours later they got stomach cramps and diarrhoea which lasted for several days. Cooked, reheated rice was the prime suspect of the food poisoning, and from the rice large numbers of Bacillus pumilus were isolated. The isolated B. pumilus strain was found to produce a complex of lipopeptides known as pumilacidins with the highest amounts produced at 15 degrees C. This is the first report on isolation of a pumilacidin-producing B. pumilus strain from food implicated in food poisoning and characterization of the organism and the toxin complex involved.
17275131	Although the structural features of centromeres from most multicellular eukaryotes remain to be characterized, recent analyses of the complete sequences of two centromeric regions of rice, together with data from Arabidopsis thaliana and maize, have illuminated the considerable size variation and sequence divergence of plant centromeres. Despite the severe suppression of meiotic chromosomal exchange in centromeric and pericentromeric regions of rice, the centromere core shows high rates of unequal homologous recombination in the absence of chromosomal exchange, resulting in frequent and extensive DNA rearrangement. Not only is the sequence of centromeric tandem and non-tandem repeats highly variable but also the copy number, spacing, order and orientation, providing ample natural variation as the basis for selection of superior centromere performance. This review article focuses on the structural and evolutionary dynamics of plant centromere organization and the potential molecular mechanisms responsible for the rapid changes of centromeric components.
17275152	Foliar applications of ethylenediurea (abbreviated as EDU) were made at 0, 150, 300 or 450 ppm to field-grown rice and wheat in the Yangtze Delta in China. Rice and wheat responded differently to ambient ozone and EDU applications. For wheat, some growth characteristics, such as yield, seed number per plant, seed set rate and harvest index, increased significantly at 300 ppm EDU treatment, while for rice no parameters measured were statistically different regarding EDU application. The reason may be that the wheat cultivar used may be more sensitive to ozone than the rice cultivar. EDU was effective in demonstrating ozone effects on the wheat cultivar, but not on the rice cultivar. Cultivar sensitivity might be an important consideration when assessing the effects of ambient ozone on plants.
17276599	The removal of 3-chlorophenol (CP) from water by carbon derived from burning of rice straw was evaluated in this study. Rice straw was burned at 300 degrees C in the air to obtain rice carbon (RC). Scanning electron micrographs showed a highly porous structure of RC. NMR and FTIR spectroscopy suggested an enhanced aromaticity of RC and the presence of oxygen-containing functional groups. Adsorption of CP by RC was characterized by L-shaped nonlinear isotherms, suggesting surface adsorption rather than partitioning. The adsorption occurred most strongly when CP existed as a neutral species. The adsorption decreased with increasing pH due to increased deprotonation of surface functional groups of RC and dissociation of CP. The adsorption capacity determined by data-fitting to the Langmuir model was 14.2, 12.9, 11.4 and 4.9 mg g(-1) at pH 4, 6, 8 and 10, respectively. These results suggest that rice-straw-based carbon may be effectively used as a low-cost substitute for activated carbon for removal of chlorophenols from water.
17276883	Plant pollens are the most common cause of seasonal allergic disease. The number of patients undergoing treatment for allergies to the pollen of Japanese cedar (major antigens, Cry j 1 and Cry j 2) has increased steadily each year. A rice seed-based edible vaccine has been shown to be effective for treating Japanese cedar pollinosis. Rice seeds containing the major T-cell epitopes derived from cedar pollen allergens were orally administrated to mice before systemic challenge with total pollen protein. Mucosal immune tolerance leading to a reduction of allergen-specific IgE, T-cell proliferative reactions, and histamine were induced, resulting in suppression of allergy-specific symptoms such as sneezing. Oral seed-based peptide immunotherapy offers a safe, simple, and cost-effective alternative to conventional allergen-specific immunotherapy using crude allergen extracts for treating allergic disease. A human version of rice seed-based edible vaccine containing seven T-cell epitopes from the Cry j 1 and Cry j 2 allergens was recently developed and is undergoing safety assessments.
17278751	A facility of BaPS (Barometric Process Separation) was used to determine soil respiration, gross nitrification and denitrification in a winter wheat field with depths of 0-7, 7-14 and 14-21 cm. N2O production was determined by a gas chromatograph. Crop root mass and relevant soil parameters were measured. Results showed that soil respiration and gross nitrification decreased with the increase of soil depth, while denitrification did not change significantly. In comparison with no-plowing plot, soil respiration increased significantly in plowing plot, especially in the surface soil of 0-7 cm, while gross nitrification and denitrification rates were not affected by plowing. Cropping practice in previous season was found to affect soil gross nitrification in the following wheat-growing season. Higher gross nitrification rate occurred in the filed plot with preceding crop of rice compared with that of maize for all the three depths of 0-7, 7-14 and 14-21 cm. A further investigation indicated that the nitrification for all the cases accounted for about 76% of the total nitrogen transformation processes of nitrification and denitrification and the N2O production correlated with nitrification significantly, suggesting that nitrification is a key process of soil N2O production in the wheat field. In addition, the variations of soil respiration and gross nitrification were exponentially dependent on root mass (P<0.001).
17279367	During routine seed increase procedures in rice, semi-sterile plants are common; however, such semi-sterility mutants in rice varieties have been only rarely analyzed genetically. W207-2 is a semi-sterile selection from the japonica rice variety Nipponbare. In this report, we found the female gamete of W207-2 was normal, and its semi-sterility was unaffected by growth duration but was conditioned by a recessive nuclear gene whose action leads to pollen semi-sterility and anther indehiscence, and the gene was named as pss1 (pollen semi-sterile). Using an F(2) population derived from the two parents W207-2 and Dular and a pooled DNA strategy, pss1 was mapped to an interval on chromosome 8 defined by the two SSR loci RM6356 and RS41. The position of pss1 was confirmed in another F(2) population derived from the cross W207-2 x Nipponbare. Over 2,000 homozygous pss1 segregants from the large W207-2 x Dular F(2) population were used to fine map pss1 to a 0.04 cM segment flanked by a CAPs marker L2 and a dCAPs L3 marker. Sequences for both markers are present on a single PAC clone, and the physical distance between them is about 28 kb. Analysis of the PAC sequence predicts the presence of five open reading frames, they are as follows: putative ribonuclease PH, putative avr9 elicitor response protein, kinesin1-like protein, putative protein RNP-D precursor and putative 40S ribosomal protein S13. This result would be helpful in cloning the pss1 gene.
17279737	A high energy atomic cluster undergoing frequent structural isomerization behaves like a liquid droplet, from which atoms or molecules can be emitted. Even after evaporation, the daughter cluster may still keep changing its structure. We study the dynamics of such an evaporation process of atomic evaporation. To do so, we develop a statistical rate theory for dissociation of highly nonrigid molecules and propose a simple method to calculate the absolute value of classical phase-space volume for a potential function that has many locally stable basins. The statistical prediction of the final distribution of the released kinetic energy is also developed. A direct application of the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassed-Marcus (RRKM) theory to this kind of multichannel chemical reaction is prohibitively difficult, unless further modeling and/or assumptions are made. We carry out a completely nonempirical statistical calculation for these dynamical quantities, in that nothing empirical is introduced like remodeling (or reparametrization) of artificial potential energy functions or recalibration of the phase-space volume referring to other "empirical" values such as those estimated with the molecular dynamics method. The so-called dividing surface is determined variationally, at which the flux is calculated in a consistent manner with the estimate of the phase-space volume in the initial state. Also, for the correct treatment of a highly nonrigid cluster, the phase-space volume and flux are estimated without the separation of vibrational and rotational motions. Both the microcanonical reaction rate and the final kinetic energy distribution thus obtained have quite accurately reproduced the corresponding quantities given by molecular dynamics calculations. This establishes the validity of the statistical arguments, which in turn brings about the deeper physical insight about the evaporation dynamics.
17280524	With the completion of the Populus trichocarpa genome sequence and the development of various genetic, genomic, and biochemical tools, Populus now offers many possibilities to study questions that cannot be as easily addressed in Arabidopsis and rice, the two prime model systems of plant biology and genomics. Tree-specific traits such as wood formation, long-term perennial growth, and seasonality are obvious areas of research, but research in other areas such as control of flowering, biotic interactions, and evolution of adaptive traits is enriched by adding a tree to the suite of model systems. Furthermore, the reproductive biology of Populus (a dioeceous wind-pollinated long-lived tree) offers both new possibilities and challenges in the study and analysis of natural genetic and phenotypic variation. The relatively close phylogenetic relationship of Populus to Arabidopsis in the Eurosid clade of Eudicotyledonous plants aids in comparative functional studies and comparative genomics, and has the potential to greatly facilitate studies on genome and gene family evolution in eudicots.
17283375	Photoprotection mechanisms of rice plants were studied when its seedlings were subjected to the combined stress of water and high light. The imposition of water stress, induced by PEG 6000 which was applied to roots, resulted in substantial inhibition of stomatal conductance and net photosynthesis under all irradiance treatments. Under high light stress, the rapid decline of photosynthesis with the development of water stress was accompanied by decreases in the maximum velocity of RuBP carboxylation by Rubisco (V(cmax)), the capacity for ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate regeneration (J(max)), Rubisco and stromal FBPase activities, and the quantum efficiency of photosystem II, in the absence of any stomatal limitation of CO(2) supply. Water stress significantly reduced the energy flux via linear electron transport (J(PSII)), but increased light-dependent and DeltapH- and xanthophyll-mediated thermal dissipation (J(NPQ)). It is concluded that the drought-induced inhibition of photosynthesis under different irradiances in the rice was due to both diffusive and metabolic limitations. Metabolic limitation of photosynthesis may be related to the adverse effects of some metabolic processes and the oxidative damage to the chloroplast. Meanwhile, an enhanced thermal dissipation is an important process to minimize the adverse effects of drought and high irradiance when CO(2) assimilation is suppressed.
17284581
17284677	Rice is an important model species for the Poaceae and other monocotyledonous plants. With the availability of a near-complete, finished, and annotated rice genome, we performed genome level comparisons between rice and all plant species in which large genomic or transcriptomic data sets are available to determine the utility of cross-species sequence for structural and functional annotation of the rice genome. Through comparative analyses with four plant genome sequence data sets and transcript assemblies from 185 plant species, we were able to confirm and improve the structural annotation of the rice genome. Support for 38,109 (89.3%) of the total 42,653 nontransposable element-related genes in the rice genome in the form of a rice expressed sequence tag, full-length cDNA, or plant homolog from our comparative analyses could be found. Although the majority of the putative homologs were obtained from Poaceae species, putative homologs were identified in dicotyledonous angiosperms, gymnosperms, and other plants such as algae, moss, and fern. A set of rice genes (7669) lacking a putative homolog was identified which may be lineage-specific genes that evolved after speciation and have a role in species diversity. Improvements to the current rice gene structural annotation could be identified from our comparative alignments and we were able to identify 487 genes which were mostly likely missed in the current rice genome annotation and another 500 genes for structural annotation review. We were able to demonstrate the utility of cross-species comparative alignments in the identification of noncoding sequences and in confirmation of gene nesting in rice.
17284739	Dietary carbohydrate intake has been shown to increase the plasma concentration of tryptophan, a precursor of serotonin and sleep-inducing agent. To investigate the role of carbohydrate in sleep induction, we explored the effect of glycemic index (GI) and meal time on sleep in healthy volunteers. We compared the effect of high- and low-GI carbohydrate-based meals ingested 4 h before bedtime on sleep quality. We also evaluated the effect of the timing of high-GI meals (4 h compared with 1 h) on sleep quality. Twelve healthy men (aged 18-35 y) were administered standard, isocaloric (3212 kJ; 8% of energy as protein, 1.6% of energy as fat, and 90.4% of energy as carbohydrate) meals of either Mahatma (low GI = 50) or Jasmine (high GI = 109) rice 4 h before their usual bedtime. On another occasion, the high-GI meal was given 1 h before bedtime. The participants underwent a familiarization night followed by 3 test nights in random order 1 wk apart. A significant (P = 0.009) reduction in the mean (+/-SD) sleep onset latency (SOL) was observed with a high-GI (9.0 +/- 6.2 min) compared with a low-GI (17.5 +/- 6.2 min) meal consumed 4 h before bedtime. The high-GI meal given 4 h before bedtime showed a significantly shortened SOL compared with the same meal given 1 h before bedtime (9.0 +/- 6.2 min compared with 14.6 +/- 9.9 min; P = 0.01). No effects on other sleep variables were observed. We showed that a carbohydrate-based high-GI meal resulted in a significant shortening of SOL in healthy sleepers compared with a low-GI meal and was most effective when consumed 4 h before bedtime. The relevance of these findings to persons with sleep disturbance should be determined in future trials.
17284833	We established a new plant defense response assay using a transient expression system in rice protoplasts. The assay system sensitively detected defense induction by flagellin, which had previously been assigned to a specific elicitor. Our assay system provides a rapid and efficient way to dissect rice defense mechanisms.
17284836	Two putative alpha-galactosidase genes from rice (Oryza sativa L. var. Nipponbare) belonging to glycoside hydrolase family 27 were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. These enzymes showed alpha-galactosidase activity and were purified by Ni Sepharose column chromatography. Two purified recombinant alpha-galactosidases (alpha-galactosidase II and III; alpha-Gal II and III) showed a single protein band on SDS-PAGE with molecular mass of 42 kDa. These two enzymes cleaved not only alpha-D-galactosyl residues from the non-reducing end of substrates such as melibiose, raffinose, and stachyose, but also liberated the galactosyl residues attached to the O-6 position of the mannosyl residue at the reducing-ends of mannobiose and mannotriose. In addition, these enzymes clipped the galactosyl residues attached to the inner-mannosyl residues of mannopentaose. Thus, alpha-Gal II catalyzes efficient degalactosylation of galactomannans, such as guar gum and locust bean gum.
17284854	Throughout Central and South Kalimantan, Indonesia, strongly acidic soil (pH 2.1-3.7) is widely distributed, and the local acidic soil-tolerant plants, including local rice varieties, often possess sphingomonads in their rhizosphere and rhizoplane. To investigate the behavior of sphingomonads inhabiting the rhizosphere of such acid-tolerant plants, we designed 13 different DNA array probes (each of 72 mer) specific to a group of sphingomonads, using a hypervariable V6 region of the 16S rRNA gene. This DNA array system was used preliminarily for an analysis of microfloral dynamisms, particularly of sphingomonads, in acidic paddock ecosystems, and the results suggest that the acid-tolerant local rice shares rhizospherous sphingomonads with wild Juncus sp., a predominant weed that thrives in acidic paddocks during the off-season for rice farming. This tentative conclusion supports the bio-rationality of the traditional rice farming system with respect to functional rhizobacteria.
17284857	To examine the distribution of rice bran tocotrienol (T3), we gave rice bran T3 to rats after considering an acceptable daily intake of vitamin E for humans. Male SD rats (5 weeks of age) were fed for 3 weeks on a commercial diet containing 6.4 mg of vitamin E per 100 g wt and additively received vitamin E or the vehicle (vitamin E-free corn oil) by oral intubation. The animals were randomly divided into 4 groups depending on the type of test diet: control (vehicle), non-T3 (no T3 + 4.3 mg of tocopherol (TOC)/kg body weight (b.w.)/day), low-T3 (0.8 mg T3 + 3.5 mg TOC/kg b.w./day), and high-T3 (3.2 mg T3 + 1.1 mg TOC/kg b.w./day). The control rats and rats in the non-T3, low-T3, and high-T3 groups took 4.3 and 8.6 mg of vitamin E/kg b.w./day, respectively. Rice bran gamma-T3 was significantly distributed to the adipose tissue and increased from 1.1 to 10.2 nmol/g of adipose tissue according to the rice bran T3 intake.
17284858	The difficulty in masticating and swallowing rice cake was quantified. Healthy subjects ate pieces of rice cake (9 g and 3 g) and a modified product (9 g). We used electromyography to measure the activity of the jaw-closing and -opening muscles during chewing, as well as the suprahyoid muscle activity, laryngeal movement, and sound during swallowing. The smaller the rice cake, the shorter the mastication time, the fewer the number of chews, and the less the jaw-closing muscle activity. A modified rice cake product (9 g) was consumed with less mastication effort than the standard rice cake (9 g) and with the same effort as the standard (3 g). Both the sample amount and texture influenced mastication, although neither factor caused a significant difference in swallowing characteristics. These observations suggest that swallowing was induced when the bolus properties became suitable for swallowing, as healthy subjects could adjust their mastication technique according to the food amount and texture.
17284889	There are many rice mills and food grain depots where a large number of workers are engaged for processing paddy and rice, storage and distribution. Lifting, carrying and depositing sacs of food grain are the major jobs carried out by these workers. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the workers with respect to their nutritional status, workload, energy expenditure and musculoskeletal pain or discomfort resulting out of work practice. Average peak heart rate of the depot and rice mill workers suggested the workload as moderate to very heavy. Their average energy expenditure values also indicated the workload as moderate to heavy. Subjective assessment of the workers showed the workload as heavy for 60.7% depot workers and 23.1% rice mill workers. Musculoskeletal pain or discomfort was maximally reported in knee by 59% depot workers whereas low back and knee was reported by 61.5% rice mill workers. Besides the weight of the sac, awkward postures like bending and twisting of trunk adopted frequently causes the problem. Further studies and rationalization of work method may improve the health and safety of the workers.
17285161	Genotoxicity potential of soils taken from wastewater irrigation areas and bioremediation sites was assessed using the Vicia faba root tip micronucleus assay. Twenty five soils were tested, of which 8 were uncontaminated soils and taken as the control to examine the influence of soil properties; 6 soils were obtained from paddy rice fields with a history of long-term wastewater irrigation; 6 soils were obtained from bioremediation sites to examine effects of bioremediation; and 5 PAH-contaminated soils were used to examine methodological effects between direct soil exposure and exposure to aqueous soil extracts on micronuclei (MN) frequency (per thousand) in the V. faba root tips. Results indicate that soil properties had no significant influences on MN frequencies (p > 0.05) when soil pH varied between 3.4 to 7.6 and organic carbon between 0.4% and 18.6%. The MN frequency measured in these control soils ranged from 1.6 per thousand to 5.8 per thousand. MN frequencies in soils from wastewater irrigation areas showed 2- to 48-fold increase as compared with the control. Soils from bioremediation sites showed a mixed picture: MN frequencies in some soils decreased after bioremediation, possibly due to detoxification; whereas in other cases remediated soils induced higher MN frequencies, suggesting that genotoxic substances might be produced during bioremediation. Exposure to aqueous soil extracts gave a higher MN frequency than direct exposure in 3 soils. However, the opposite was observed in the other two soils, suggesting that both exposure routes should be tested in case of negative results from one route. Data obtained from this study indicate that the MN assay is a sensitive assay suitable for evaluating genotoxicity of soils.
17286856	Transcription factors (TFs) are key regulatory proteins that enhance or repress the transcriptional rate of their target genes by binding to specific promoter regions (i.e. cis-acting elements) upon activation or de-activation of upstream signaling cascades. TFs thus constitute master control elements of dynamic transcriptional networks. TFs have fundamental roles in almost all biological processes (development, growth and response to environmental factors) and it is assumed that they play immensely important functions in the evolution of species. In plants, TFs have been employed to manipulate various types of metabolic, developmental and stress response pathways. Cross-species comparison and identification of regulatory modules and hence TFs is thought to become increasingly important for the rational design of new plant biomass. Up to now, however, no computational repository is available that provides access to the largely complete sets of transcription factors of sequenced plant genomes. PlnTFDB is an integrative plant transcription factor database that provides a web interface to access large (close to complete) sets of transcription factors of several plant species, currently encompassing Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress), Populus trichocarpa (poplar), Oryza sativa (rice), Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Ostreococcus tauri. It also provides an access point to its daughter databases of a species-centered representation of transcription factors (OstreoTFDB, ChlamyTFDB, ArabTFDB, PoplarTFDB and RiceTFDB). Information including protein sequences, coding regions, genomic sequences, expressed sequence tags (ESTs), domain architecture and scientific literature is provided for each family. We have created lists of putatively complete sets of transcription factors and other transcriptional regulators for five plant genomes. They are publicly available through http://plntfdb.bio.uni-potsdam.de. Further data will be included in the future when the sequences of other plant genomes become available.
17287003	DDT had been widely used around the world before 1980s and is still under production and use for non-agricultural purposes in China. Because of their special physicochemical properties, p,p'-DDT and its main metabolites, p,p'-DDD and p,p'-DDE, accumulated and persisted in the environment, presenting potential menace on biota. A green-house study was conducted to determine the bioavailability of p,p'-DDD and p,p'-DDE to grains of rice and the influences of traditional Chinese farming practices on their bioaccumulation. Paddy rice and dry rice were grown in submerged paddy soils and non-submerged upland soils, respectively. Two types of soil, Hydragric Anthrosols (An) and Hydragric Acrisols (Ac), were employed. Bioaccumulation factors (BAFs) of DDE ranged from 0.67 for rice grown in non-submerged An to 0.84 in submerged An in the control group, whilst BAFs were all below 0.04 in experimental groups. BAFs of DDD varied from 1.39 for submerged An to 2.26 for submerged Ac in original soils. In contrast, BAFs were between 0.05 for non-submerged Ac and 0.08 for submerged An in DDD-contaminated soils. Flooding seemed to have two contradictory effects on the DDE/DDD accumulation by rice: on one hand, it made the pollutants more mobile and bioavailable; while on the other hand, it enhanced the degradation and binding of POPs. Adding rice straw to the soils protected DDE from being taken up yet promoted DDD accumulation by rice. Furthermore, the distinct inorganic component of the soils might also play an important role in the environmental activities of POPs.
17287112	Water deficiency and lower fertilizer utilization efficiency are major constraints of productivity and yield stability. Improvements of crop water use efficiency (WUE) and nutrient use efficiency (NUE) is becoming an important objective in crop breeding. With the introduction of new physiological and biological approaches, we can better understand the mutual genetics mechanism of high use efficiency of water and nutrient. Much work has been done in past decades mainly including the interactions between different fertilizers and water influences on root characteristics and crop growth. Fertilizer quantity and form were regulated in order to improve crop WUE. The crop WUE and NUE shared the same increment tendency during evolution process; some genes associated with WUE and NUE have been precisely located and marked on the same chromosomes, some genes related to WUE and NUE have been cloned and transferred into wheat and rice and other plants, they can enhance water and nutrient use efficiency. The proteins transporting nutrient and water were identified such as some water channel proteins. The advance on the mechanism of higher water and nutrient use efficiency in crop was reviewed in this article, and it could provide some useful information for further research on WUE and NUE in crop.
17287810	The growth of plants depends on continuous function of the meristems. Shoot meristems are responsible for all the post-embryonic aerial organs, such as leaves, stems and flowers. It has been assumed that the phytohormone cytokinin has a positive role in shoot meristem function. A severe reduction in the size of meristems in a mutant that is defective in all of its cytokinin receptors has provided compelling evidence that cytokinin is required for meristem activity. Here, we report a novel regulation of meristem activity, which is executed by the meristem-specific activation of cytokinins. The LONELY GUY (LOG) gene of rice is required to maintain meristem activity and its loss of function causes premature termination of the shoot meristem. LOG encodes a novel cytokinin-activating enzyme that works in the final step of bioactive cytokinin synthesis. Revising the long-held idea of multistep reactions, LOG directly converts inactive cytokinin nucleotides to the free-base forms, which are biologically active, by its cytokinin-specific phosphoribohydrolase activity. LOG messenger RNA is specifically localized in shoot meristem tips, indicating the activation of cytokinins in a specific developmental domain. We propose the fine-tuning of concentrations and the spatial distribution of bioactive cytokinins by a cytokinin-activating enzyme as a mechanism that regulates meristem activity.
17287976	Partial pollen sterility has been observed in hybrid progeny derived from a japonica cultivar, Akihikari and a weedy strain, Ludao, which naturally grows in Jiangsu province of east China. Cytological and histological analyses revealed that pollen abortion occurred largely at the bicellular pollen stage, primarily due to the gradual disaggregation of generative and vegetative cells. A genome-wide analysis was further carried out in a backcross population of Akihikari //Ludao/Akihikari using a total of 118 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers and an expressed sequence tag (EST) marker distributed on the entire rice linkage map. Two loci controlling hybrid pollen sterility, designated as S33(t) and S34(t), were located on chromosomes 3 and 11, respectively. Both loci were putatively different from all the previously reported gametophyte genes and hybrid pollen sterility loci. Interaction between the Ludao and Akihikari alleles at each of the two loci resulted in reduction of fertility in the pollens carring the Ludao alleles. To map the precise location of the major locus, S33(t), we selected 165 plants of the backcross population with pollen fertility higher than 80.0%, and assayed the recombinant events surrounding the S33(t) locus using newly developed SSR markers. The S33(t) was delimited to an 86 kb region between SSR markers RM15621 and RM15627. Sequence analysis of this region indicated that there were ten open reading frames. These results will be valuable for cloning this gene and marker-assisted transferring of the corresponding neutral allele in rice breeding programs. Furthermore, the origin of the weedy strain Ludao is discussed.
17288009	To attempt to understand certain mechanisms causing the variations between rice cultivars with regard to Cd uptake and accumulation, pot soil experiments were conducted with two rice cultivars at different levels of Cd, i.e., 0 (the control), 10, 50 mg Cd kg(-1)soil. The two rice cultivars differ significantly with regard to Cd uptake and accumulation. Root secretions of low-molecular-weight organic acids (LMWOA) for each treatment were measured with ion chromatography. The results showed that LMWOA concentrations in the soil planted with Shan you 63 (a high soil Cd accumulator) were all higher than those in the soil planted with Wu yun jing 7 (low soil Cd accumulator) at different soil Cd levels, although the magnitudes of the differences varied for individual LMWOA and depend on soil Cd concentrations. For all six LMWOA, there were significant differences at P < 0.05 or < 0.01 levels for soils treated with 10 and 50 mg kg(-1) Cd. The magnitude of the differences was greater under soil Cd treatments, especially at relatively low levels (for example, 10 mg Cd kg(-1) soil), than in the control. Acetic acid and formic acid constituted more than 96% of the total concentration of the six LMWOA, while citric acid constituted only about 0.1%. The rice cultivar with higher concentrations of LMWOA in soil accumulated more Cd in the plants. The results indicate that LMWOA secretion by rice root, especially in Cd-contaminated soils, is likely to be one of the mechanisms determining the plant Cd uptake properties of rice cultivars.
17288138	A method was developed for the simultaneous determination of aflatoxins (AFs) (B1, B2, G1 and G2), zearalenone (ZEA) and ochratoxin A (OTA) in cereal grains by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence detection after immunoaffinity column clean-up and post-column derivatization. Cereal grain sample was extracted with methanol-water (80: 20, v/v). The extract was purified by immunoaffinity column and the toxins were separated by reversed-phase HPLC, and quantified with fluorescence detection after photochemical derivatization. The separation was performed on a Nova-Pak column (3.9 mm i. d. x 150 mm, 4 microm, Waters) with a linear gradient of methanol-acetonitrile-1% phosphoric acid mixture. The calibration curves for mycotoxins were made in the concentration range of 0.24 - 6.0 for AFs (B1, B2, G1 and G2), 4.0 - 100.0 for ZEA and 0.5 - 40.0 microg/L for OTA. Recoveries of the different cereal grains (wheat, rice, rye) spiked with mycotoxins at levels ranged from 0.24 -1.0 microg/kg for AFs (B1, B2, G1 and G2), 4.0 -16.0 microg/kg for ZEA and 0.5 - 3.0 microg/kg for OTA were from 70.8% to 94.0% and relative standard deviations were between 2.79% and 9.38%. The limits of detection were 0.24 Rg/kg for AFs (B1, B2, G1 and G2), 0.5 microg/kg for OTA and 4.0 microg/kg for ZEA.
17288444	Degradation of Cry1Ab protein from Bt transgenic rice was examined under both aerobic and flooded conditions in five paddy soils and in aqueous solutions. The hydrolysis rate of Cry1Ab protein in aqueous solutions was correlated inversely with the solution pH in the range of 4.0 to 8.0, and positively with the initial concentration of Cry1Ab protein. Rapid degradation of Cry1Ab protein occurred in paddy soils under aerobic conditions, with half-lives ranging from 19.6 to 41.3 d. The degradation was mostly biotic and not related to any specific soil property. Degradation of the Cry1Ab protein was significantly prolonged under flooded conditions compared with aerobic conditions, with half-lives extended to 45.9 to 141 d. These results suggest that the toxin protein, when introduced into a paddy field upon harvest, will probably undergo rapid removal after the field is drained and exposed to aerobic conditions.
17288579	Synonymous codon usage varies widely between genomes, and also between genes within genomes. Although there is now a large body of data on variations in codon usage, it is still not clear if the observed patterns reflect the effects of positive Darwinian selection acting at the level of translational efficiency or whether these patterns are due simply to the effects of mutational bias. In this study, we have included both intra-genomic and inter-genomic comparisons of codon usage. This allows us to distinguish more efficiently between the effects of nucleotide bias and translational selection. We show that there is an extreme degree of heterogeneity in codon usage patterns within the rice genome, and that this heterogeneity is highly correlated with differences in nucleotide content (particularly GC content) between the genes. In contrast to the situation observed within the rice genome, Arabidopsis genes show relatively little variation in both codon usage and nucleotide content. By exploiting a combination of intra-genomic and inter-genomic comparisons, we provide evidence that the differences in codon usage among the rice genes reflect a relatively rapid evolutionary increase in the GC content of some rice genes. We also noted that the degree of codon bias was negatively correlated with gene length. Our results show that mutational bias can cause a dramatic evolutionary divergence in codon usage patterns within a period of approximately two hundred million years. The heterogeneity of codon usage patterns within the rice genome can be explained by a balance between genome-wide mutational biases and negative selection against these biased mutations. The strength of the negative selection is proportional to the length of the coding sequences. Our results indicate that the large variations in synonymous codon usage are not related to selection acting on the translational efficiency of synonymous codons.
17289016	Myosins are actin-based motor proteins responsible for various motility and signal transduction. Only a small set of myosin classes is present inplants, and little is known about their functions. Here we showed how a rice myosin gene controlled pollen development by sensing changed environmental factors. The analysis is based on a gene-trapped Ds insertion mutant Oryza sativa myosin XI B (osmyoXIB). This mutant showed male sterility under short day length (SD) conditions and fertility under long day length (LD) conditions. Under both SD and LD conditions, the OSMYOXIB transcript was detected in whole anthers. However, under SD conditions, the OSMYOXIB-GUS fusion protein was localized only in the epidermal layer of anthers due to the lack of 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) and to dilute (DIL) domain sequences following the Ds insertion. As a result, mutant pollen development was affected, leading to male sterility. By contrast, under LD conditions, the fusion protein was localized normally in anthers. Despite normal localization, the protein was only partially functional due to the lack of DIL domain sequences, resulting in limited recovery of pollen fertility. This study also provides a case for a novel molecular aspect of gene expression, i.e., cell layer-specific translation in anthers.
17289300	The Mutator system of maize has been described as the most active and mutagenic plant transposon. The autonomous element MuDR contains two genes: mudrA encoding the transposase and mudrB whose product function remains undetermined. MudrA-like coding domain showed to be the most abundantly expressed transposon-related sequence in sugarcane transcriptome. A previous report identified the existence of at least four clades of mudrA-like sequences in sugarcane, rice and arabidopsis, which already existed prior to the Monocot-Eudicot split. To gain understanding about the abundance, distribution, copy number and diversity of mudrA-like sequences, a comparative study between sugarcane and rice was performed. As a result, it was possible to identify that copy number greatly differs and, at least in grasses, there was a class-specific amplification with a burst of Class II elements. Structural analyses performed on rice genomic sequences revealed that while Class I and Class II clades comprise elements with transposon features, Class III and Class IV no longer possess TIRs and correspond to domesticated transposases.
17289424	Annotation of the first few complete plant genomes has revealed that plants have many genes. For Arabidopsis, over 26,500 gene loci have been predicted, whereas for rice, the number adds up to 41,000. Recent analysis of the poplar genome suggests more than 45,000 genes, and partial sequence data from Medicago and Lotus also suggest that these plants contain more than 40,000 genes. Nevertheless, estimations suggest that ancestral angiosperms had no more than 12,000-14,000 genes. One explanation for the large increase in gene number during angiosperm evolution is gene duplication. It has been shown previously that the retention of duplicates following small- and large-scale duplication events in plants is substantial. Taking into account the function of genes that have been duplicated, we are now beginning to understand why many plant genes might have been retained, and how their retention might be linked to the typical lifestyle of plants.
17292520	The transfer of 90Sr to rice plants following its acute ground deposition was examined experimentally in a greenhouse. Lysimeters were flooded after being filled with the soil monoliths from 12 paddy fields. A solution of 90Sr was applied to the standing water in the flooded lysimeters at the pre-transplanting stage or booting stage. Applied 90Sr was mixed with the topsoil only after the pre-transplanting application (PTA). The transfer was quantified with the areal transfer factor (TF(a), m2 kg(-1)-dry) defined as the ratio of the plant concentration to the initial ground deposition. In the PTA, the first-year TF(a) values in the 12 soils were in the range of 8.2 x 10(-3) -2.1 x 10(-2) and 1.7 x 10(-4) -3.6 x 10(-4) for the straws and hulled seeds, respectively. The TF(a) values from the booting-stage application (BSA) were higher than those from the PTA by a factor of up to four. The ratios of the seed TF(a) to the straw TF(a) were, on the whole, higher in the BSA. The 90Sr TF(a) in the PTA was negatively correlated with the soil pH and, to a lesser degree, the exchangeable Ca content. In the second year, the TF(a) in the PTA reduced to 53-90% of that in the first year. A more significant reduction, in general, occurred in a sandier soil. Based on the four consecutive years' transfer data, an overall half-time of the 90Sr TF(a) was estimated to be 2.2 years.
17293362	Genome-wide analyses of rice (Oryza sativa L.) cytokinin (CK)-responsive genes using the Affymetrix GeneChip(R) rice genome array were conducted to define the spectrum of genes subject to regulation by CK in monocotyledonous plants. Application of trans-zeatin modulated the expression of a wide variety of genes including those involved in hormone signaling and metabolism, transcriptional regulation, macronutrient transport and protein synthesis. To understand further the function of CK in rice plants, we examined the effects of in planta manipulation of a putative CK signaling factor on morphology, CK metabolism and expression of CK-responsive genes. Overexpression of the CK-inducible type-A response regulator OsRR6 abolished shoot regeneration, suggesting that OsRR6 acts as a negative regulator of CK signaling. Transgenic lines overexpressing OsRR6 (OsRR6-ox) had dwarf phenotypes with poorly developed root systems and panicles. Increased content of trans-zeatin-type CKs in OsRR6-ox lines indicates that homeostatic control of CK levels is regulated by OsRR6 signaling. Expression of genes encoding CK oxidase/dehydrogenase decreased in OsRR6-ox plants, possibly accounting for elevated CK levels in transgenic lines. Expression of a number of stress response genes was also altered in OsRR6-ox plants.
17293435	We used a cDNA microarray approach to monitor the expression profile of rice (Oryza sativa) under cold stress and identified 328 cold-regulated genes. Thirteen such genes encoding MYB, homeodomain, and zinc finger proteins with unknown functions showed a significant change in expression under 72-h cold stress. Among them, OsMYB3R-2 was selected for further study. Unlike most plant R2R3 MYB transcription factors, OsMYB3R-2 has three imperfect repeats in the DNA-binding domain, the same as in animal c-MYB proteins. Expression of OsMYB3R-2 was induced by cold, drought, and salt stress. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) transgenic plants overexpressing OsMYB3R-2 showed increased tolerance to cold, drought, and salt stress, and the seed germination of transgenic plants was more tolerant to abscisic acid or NaCl than that of wild type. The expression of some clod-related genes, such as dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2A, COR15a, and RCI2A, was increased to a higher level in OsMYB3R-2-overexpressing plants than in wild type. These results suggest that OsMYB3R-2 acts as a master switch in stress tolerance.
17293439	F-box proteins constitute a large family in eukaryotes and are characterized by a conserved F-box motif (approximately 40 amino acids). As components of the Skp1p-cullin-F-box complex, F-box proteins are critical for the controlled degradation of cellular proteins. We have identified 687 potential F-box proteins in rice (Oryza sativa), the model monocotyledonous plant, by a reiterative database search. Computational analysis revealed the presence of several other functional domains, including leucine-rich repeats, kelch repeats, F-box associated domain, domain of unknown function, and tubby domain in F-box proteins. Based upon their domain composition, they have been classified into 10 subfamilies. Several putative novel conserved motifs have been identified in F-box proteins, which do not contain any other known functional domain. An analysis of a complete set of F-box proteins in rice is presented, including classification, chromosomal location, conserved motifs, and phylogenetic relationship. It appears that the expansion of F-box family in rice, in large part, might have occurred due to localized gene duplications. Furthermore, comprehensive digital expression analysis of F-box protein-encoding genes has been complemented with microarray analysis. The results reveal specific and/or overlapping expression of rice F-box protein-encoding genes during floral transition as well as panicle and seed development. At least 43 F-box protein-encoding genes have been found to be differentially expressed in rice seedlings subjected to different abiotic stress conditions. The expression of several F-box protein-encoding genes is also influenced by light. The structure and function of F-box proteins in plants is discussed in light of these results and the published information. These data will be useful for prioritization of F-box proteins for functional validation in rice.
17294270	Paper industries using different raw materials such as hard wood, bamboo, baggase, rice-straw and waste papers and bleaching chemicals like chlorine, hypochlorite, chlorine dioxide, hydrogen peroxide, sulphite and oxygen were studied to estimate organic pollution load and Adsorbable Organic Halides (AOX) per ton of production. The hard wood based paper industries generate higher Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) loads (105-182 kg t(-1)) and Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) loads (32.0-72 kg t(-1)) compared to the agro and waste paper based industrial effluents. The bleaching sequences such as C-EP-H-H, C-E-H-H, C-E-Do-D1 and O-Do-EOP-D1 are adopted in the paper industries and the molecular elemental chlorine free bleaching sequence discharges low AOX in the effluent. The range of AOX concentration in the final effluent from the paper industries was 0.08-0.99 kg t(-1) of production. Water consumption was in the range of 100-130 m(3) t(-1) of paper production for wood based industries and 30-50 m(3) for the waste paper based industries. Paper machine effluents are partially recycled after treatment and pulp mill black liquor are subject to chemical recovery after evaporation to reduce the water consumption and the total pollution loads. Hypochlorite bleaching units of textile bleaching processes generate more AOX (17.2-18.3 mg l(-1)) and are consuming more water (45-80 l kg(-1)) whereas alkali peroxide bleaching hardly generates the AOX in the effluents and water consumption was also comparatively less (40 l kg(-1) of yarn/cloth).
17294924	The ectoparasites of a small mammal community within an intertidal zone in the upper Gulf coast region of Texas were studied to assess the seasonal variation in abundances of the mite Gigantolaelaps mattogrossensis (Fonseca) (Acari: Laelapidae) on the marsh rice rat, Oryzomys palustris (Harlan). Further study into the ecology and dynamics of this parasite-host relationship was deemed to be necessary to expand the understanding of these potential participants in the ecology of Bayou Hantavirus, an important causative agent of Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of five predictor variables on mite abundance: prevalences of hosts, relative humidity, precipitation, temperature, and length of daylight. Mite abundance was modeled as a function of the five variables with analyses of variance and multiple regressions; however, because the predictor variables pertain to the sampling period rather than to the individual rodent host, the effective sample size was small and thus the sums of squares and cross products matrix was singular. We therefore developed and used a new method for estimating regression coefficients based on the "noise-addition method" (random residual variation) combined with a bootstrap step converting the reduced rank data to full rank, providing realistic estimates of confidence intervals for the regression statistics. The population abundances of mites fluctuated significantly across collecting periods. Humidity and precipitation were the most influential variables in explaining the variation in abundances of mites. Model interpretation suggests that G. mattogrossensis is a nidicolous parasite. These results provide a baseline understanding of the seasonal interactions between parasite and host.
17294955	The process of the rice straw degradation in the fermentor with aeration at 290 ml/h was studied. The results of dissolved oxygen (DO) indicated that the optimum DO during cellulose degradation by microbial community MC1 ranged from 0.01 to 0.12 mg/L. The change model of pH values was as follows: irrespective of the initial pH of the medium, pH values decreased rapidly to approximate 6.0 after being inoculated within 48 h when cellulose was strongly degraded, and then increased slowly to 8.0-9.0 until cellulose was degraded completely. During the degradation process, 15 kinds of organic compounds were checked out by GC-MS. Most of them were organic acids. Quantity analysis was carried out, and the maximum content compound was ethyl acetate which reached 13.56 g/L on the day 4. The cellulose degradation quantity and ratio analyses showed that less quantity (under batch fermentation conditions) and longer interval (under semi-fermentation conditions) of rice straw added to fermentation system were contributed to matching the change model of pH, and increasing the quantity and ratio of rice straw degradation during cellulose degrading process. The highest degradation ratio was observed under the condition of rice straw added one time every five days (under semi-fermentation conditions).
17295027	A group of nuclear transcription factors, the Whirly proteins, were recently shown to be targeted also to chloroplasts and mitochondria. In order to find out whether other proteins might share this feature, an in silico-based screening of transcription factors from Arabidopsis and rice was carried out with the aim of identifying putative N-terminal chloroplast and mitochondrial targeting sequences. For this, the individual predictions of several independent programs were combined to a consensus prediction using a nave Bayes method. This consensus prediction shows a higher specificity at a given sensitivity value than each of the single programs. In both species, transcription factors from a variety of protein families that possess putative N-terminal plastid or mitochondrial target peptides as well as nuclear localization sequences, were found. A search for homologues within members of the AP2/EREBP protein family revealed that target peptide-containing proteins are conserved among monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous species. Fusion of one of these proteins to GFP revealed, indeed, a dual targeting activity of this protein. We propose that dually targeted transcription factors might be involved in the communication between the nucleus and the organelles in plant cells. We further discuss how recent results on the physical interaction between the organelles and the nucleus could have significance for the regulation of the localization of these proteins.
17295125	The majority of genomic DNA in most plant species is made up of repetitive elements including satellites and retrotransposons. The maize genome is intermediate in size and abundance of repetitive elements between small genomes such as Arabidopsis and rice and larger genomes such as wheat. Although repetitive elements are present throughout the maize genome, individual families are non-randomly distributed along chromosomes. In this work we use fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) to examine the distribution of abundant LTR retroelement families and satellites contained in heterochromatic blocks called knobs. Different retroelement families have distinct patterns of hybridization. Prem1 and Tekay, two very closely related elements, both hybridize along the length of all chromosomes but do so with greater intensity near the centromeres, although subtle differences are detectable between the hybridization patterns. Opie, Prem2/Ji, and Huck are enriched away from the centromeres and Grande is distributed uniformly along the chromosomes. Double labeling with proximally and distally enriched elements on pachytene chromosomes produces alternating blocks of element enrichment. The maize elements hybridized in the same general patterns to chromosomes of maize relatives including Zea diploperennis and Tripsacum dactyloides. Additionally, abundant Tripsacum LTR retroelements are enriched in similar chromosomal regions among the different species. The 180 bp knob satellite is present in large blocks at interstitial locations on chromosome arms. With long exposures, smaller sites of hybridization are detected at the ends of chromosomes, adjacent to the telomere tract. This distal position for knob satellites is conserved among Zea and Tripsacum species.
17295128	Rice (Oryza sativa) has become an important model plant species in numerous research projects involving genome, molecular and evolutionary biology. In this review we describe the reasons why rice provides an excellent model system for centromere and heterochromatin research. In most multicellular eukaryotes, centromeres and heterochromatic domains contain long arrays of repetitive DNA elements that are recalcitrant to DNA sequencing. In contrast, three rice centromeres and the majority of the cytologically defined heterochromatin in the rice genome have been sequenced to high quality, providing an unparalleled resource compared to other model multicellular eukaryotes. Most importantly, active genes have been discovered in the functional domains of several rice centromeres. The centromeric genes and sequence resources provide an unprecedented opportunity to study function and evolution of centromeres and centromere-associated genes.
17295357	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a serious limitation to worldwide crop production. Rice is one of the most Al-tolerant crops and also serves as an important monocot model plant. This study aims to identify Al-responsive proteins in rice, based on evidence that Al resistance is an inducible process. Two Al treatment systems were applied in the study: Al3+-containing simple Ca solution culture and Al3+-containing complete nutrient solution culture. Proteins prepared from rice roots were separated by 2-DE. The 2-DE patterns were compared and the differentially expressed proteins were identified by MS. A total of 17 Al-responsive proteins were identified, with 12 of those being up-regulated and 5 down-regulated. Among the up-regulated proteins are copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu-Zn SOD), GST, and S-adenosylmethionine synthetase 2, which are the consistently known Al-induced enzymes previously detected at the transcriptional level in other plants. More importantly, a number of other identified proteins including cysteine synthase (CS), 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidase, G protein beta subunit-like protein, abscisic acid- and stress-induced protein, putative Avr9/Cf-9 rapidly elicited protein 141, and a 33 kDa secretory protein are novel Al-induced proteins. Most of these proteins are functionally associated with signaling transduction, antioxidation, and detoxification. CS, as consistently detected in both Al stress systems, was further validated by Western blot and CS activity assays. Moreover, the metabolic products of CS catalysis, i.e. both the total glutathione pool and reduced glutathione, were also significantly increased in response to Al stress. Taken together, our results suggest that antioxidation and detoxification ultimately related to sulfur metabolism, particularly to CS, may play a functional role in Al adaptation for rice.
17295505	We examined the biochemical and structural properties of oryzacystatin-II, a phytocystatin in rice (Oryza sativa L. japonica), under heat-stress conditions. The enzyme inhibitory reactivity of oryzacystatin-II was enhanced by heating in a temperature-dependent manner and reached a maximum level by heating at 65 degrees C for 10 min. Size-exclusion chromatography showed that oryzacystatin-II forms a homodimer at ambient temperature and that the enhancement of inhibitory reactivity is due to the conversion of the dimeric to a monomeric form. The monomeric form of oryzacystatin-II reverted to the dimer during storage at 4 degrees C, suggesting that dimerization is an intrinsic property of oryzacystatin-II. The affinity of the monomer for cysteine proteinases was significantly higher than that of the dimer. This is the first paper to describe the noncovalent dimerization for a cystatin under nonstress conditions.
17296305	The MAPK cascade plays greatly important roles in signal transduction pathways. The present study computationally identified 16 rice MAPKs (OsMPKs). The results of EST and cDNA hitting supported the reliability of OsMPKs in rice. Gene structure comparison showed large differences in exon numbers, from 2 to 12, among members of the rice MAPK family. Rice MAPKs were located on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 10, and 11, particularly being distributed on the 1, 5 and 6 chromosomes. On a genome scale we revealed that the rice MAPK family should have evolved through segmental duplication produced by polyploidy, rather than through tandem amplification. Phylogenetic analysis divided the plant MAPK family members into four distinct groups (A-D), supported by highly significant bootstrap values. 11 out of the 16 OsMPKs belonged to group D, suggesting dramatic evolutionary expansion of this group and rapid gene losses in other groups. The divergence between and within plant MAPK groups should predate the monocot-dicot split. Notably, the divergences between plant, animal, fungi and parasite MAPKs were apparent, although MAP kinases might be conserved during long space of evolutionary time. Moreover, some orthologs and paralogs could be identified from the phylogenetic tree. It is suggested that members within each group might serve similar functions in different species. Thus, the annotation of published MAPKs would greatly facilitate the functional investigation of uncharacterized MAP kinases. However, group D genes were more complicated, and required extensive additional studies. Overall, the first description of the whole MAPK family will be expected to result in significant progress in investigating the regulation mechanism of MAPKs in response to extracellular stimuli.
17297616	To elucidate the role of SSIIIa during starch synthesis in rice (Oryza sativa L.) endosperm, we characterized null mutants of this gene, generated by T-DNA insertions. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) analysis revealed that the starch granules in these mutants are smaller and rounder compared with the wild type controls, and that the mutant endosperm is characterized by a loosely packed central portion exhibiting a floury-like phenotype. Hence, the OsSSIIIa (Oryza sativa SSIIIa) mutations are referred to as white-core floury endosperm 5-1 (flo5-1) and flo5-2. Based upon their X-ray diffraction patterns, the crystallinity of the starch in the flo5 mutant endosperm is decreased compared with wild type. Through determination of the chain-length distribution of the mutant endosperm starch, we found that flo5-1 and flo5-2 mutants have reduced the content of long chains with degree of polymerization (DP) 30 or greater compared with the controls. This suggests that OsSSIIIa/Flo5 plays an important role in generating relatively long chains in rice endosperm. In addition, DP 6 to 8 and DP 16 to 20 appeared to be reduced in endosperm starch of flo5-1 and flo5-2, whereas DP 9 to 15 and DP 22 to 29 were increased in these mutants. By the use of differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), the gelatinization temperatures of endosperm starch were found to be 1-5 degrees C lower than those of the control. We propose a distinct role for OsSSIIIa/Flo5 and the coordinated action of other SS isoforms during starch synthesis in the seed endosperm of rice.
17298064	The nonsymbiotic hemoglobins, AHb1 and AHb2, have recently been isolated from Arabidopsis thaliana. Using steady-state and time-resolved spectroscopic methods, we show that Fe2+ AHb1 contains a mixture of penta- and hexacoordinated heme, while Fe2+ AHb2 is fully hexacoordinated. In the CO complexes, polar interactions and H-bonds with the ligand are stronger for AHb1 than for AHb2. The ligand binding kinetics are substantially different, reflecting the distribution between the penta- and hexacoordinated species, and indicate that protein dynamics and ligand migration pathways are very specific for each of the two proteins. In particular, a very small, non-exponential geminate rebinding observed in AHb1 suggests that the distal heme cavity is connected with the exterior by a relatively open channel. The large, temperature-dependent geminate rebinding observed for AHb2 implies a major role of protein dynamics in the ligand migration from the distal cavity to the solvent. The structures of AHb1 and AHb2, modeled on the basis of the homologous rice hemoglobin, exhibit a different cavity system that is fully compatible with the observed ligand binding kinetics. Overall, these kinetic and structural data are consistent with the putative NO-dioxygenase activity previously attributed to AHb1, whereas the role of AHb2 remains elusive.
17298698	Forty-eight, 21-d-old pigs were used to examine the effects of different types of cooked white rice on starch digestion, digesta and fermentation characteristics, shedding of beta-haemolytic Escherichia coli and performance after weaning. Pigs received one of three rice-based diets: (i) medium-grain Amaroo (AM), (ii) long-grain Doongara (DOON), and (iii) waxy (WAXY). The remainder of the diet consisted predominantly of animal proteins. A fourth diet contained mainly wheat, barley and lupins (WBL). On days 1, 3, 7 and 9 after weaning, a faecal swab was taken for assessment of beta-haemolytic E. coli and faecal consistency. Apparent digestibility of starch measured in the ileum 14 d after weaning was highest (P = 0.004) in AM and WAXY and lowest, but the same (P>0.05), in DOON and WBL. Starch digestibility in the rectum was highest in all rice diets (P < 0.001). Digesta viscosity was highest in pigs fed WBL in both the ileum (P < 0.001) and caecum (P = 0.027). Pigs fed rice generally had lighter (P < 0.05) gastrointestinal organs than pigs fed WBL. Performance of pigs was similar for all treatments; however, pigs fed rice-based diets had a higher (P < 0.001) carcass percentage than pigs fed WBL. Pigs fed WBL produced more acid (P < 0.05) but had lower molar proportions of acetate (P < 0.05), isobutyrate (P < 0.01) and isovalerate (P < 0.001) and a higher molar proportion of butyrate (P < 0.01) in the large intestine than pigs fed rice. Shedding of E. coli was low; however, pigs fed AM and WBL shed less E. coli than pigs fed other diets.
17298902	This study was undertaken to analyze the kinetics of water absorption and to derive an equation for the rate at which water is absorbed by rice for brewing sake. We used two rice varieties: Gin-oumi, commonly used as a staple food, and Gohyakumangoku, a variety used particularly for brewing sake. The water-absorption rate equations of Gin-oumi and Gohyakumangoku were postulated based on the following equations. For Gin-oumi (water content, 11.5%), dx/dtheta=k(1-x)(n), n=1, k=(2 x 10(-9))exp(0.0604 x (t+273.15)). For Gohyakumangoku (11.5%), dx/dtheta=k(1-x)(n)(x+a), n=1, a=0.29, k=(2 x 10(-8))exp(0.0534 x (t+273.15)). Here, x, theta (min), and t (degrees C) are the water absorbing ratio, time, and temperature, respectively. The result shows that the values of the temperature-dependence parameter k (min(-1)), as well as its curves, are different; a typical rice grain has a monotonically smooth curve, whereas that suitable for sake brewing has an S-shaped curve.
17298954	The genomic sequences derived from rice centromeric regions were analyzed to facilitate the comprehensive understanding of the rice genome. A rice centromere-specific satellite sequence, RCS2/TrsD/CentO, was used to screen P1-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) and bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) genomic libraries derived from Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica cultivar Nipponbare. Physical maps of the centromeric regions were constructed by DNA fingerprinting methods and the aligned clones were analyzed by end sequencing. BLAST analysis revealed the composition of genes, centromeric satellites and other repetitive elements, such as RIRE7/CRR, RIRE8, Squiq, Anaconda, CACTA and miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements. Fiber-fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis also indicated the presence of distinct clusters of RCS2/TrsD/CentO satellite interspersed with other elements, instead of a long homogeneous region. Several expressed genes, sequences representative of ancestral organellar insertions, relatively long simple sequence repeats (SSRs), and sequences corresponding to 5S and 45S ribosomal RNA genes were also identified. Thirty-one gene sequences showed high-similarity to rice full-length cDNA sequences that had not been matched to the published rice genome sequence in silico. These results suggest the presence of expressed genes within and around the clusters of RCS2/TrsD/CentO satellites in unsequenced centromeric regions of the rice chromosomes.
17300190	The Whitten-Rabinovitch (WR) approximation used in the semi-classical calculation of the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) unimolecular reaction rate constant was improved for reliable application to protein reactions. The state sum data for the 10-mer of each amino acid calculated by the accurate Beyer-Swinehart (BS) algorithm were used to obtain the residue-specific correction functions (w). The correction functions were obtained down to a much lower internal energy range than reported in the original work, and the cubic, rather than quadratic, polynomial was used for data fitting. For a specified sequence of amino acid residues in a protein, an average was made over these functions to obtain the sequence-specific correction function to be used in the rate constant calculation. Reliability of the improved method was tested for dissociation of various peptides and proteins. Even at low internal energies corresponding to the RRKM rate constant as small as 0.1 s-1, the rate constant calculated by the present method differed from the accurate BS result by 60% only. In contrast, the result from the original WR calculation differed from the accurate result by a factor of 3000. Compared to the BS method, which is difficult to use for proteins, the main advantage of the present method is that the RRKM rate constant can be calculated instantly regardless of the protein mass.
17301062	We examined the nucleotide sequences preceding 23 mitochondrial protein-coding genes held in common by maize, rice, wheat, sugar beet, tobacco, Arabidopsis, and Brassica to look for features related to translation initiation and to assess the degree of conservation in mitochondrial mRNA leaders among these plants. We observed broad variation in sequence similarity as illustrated by dot plot analysis, ranging from a level rivaling that of coding sequences to complete absence of homology due to lineage-specific DNA rearrangements. Genes encoding ATP synthase subunits predominated in the latter category, whereas ones encoding cytochrome c biogenesis proteins and NADH dehydrogenase subunits were primarily of the highly conserved type. Within the region immediately preceding initiation codons, in most cases we did not observe motifs consistent with a bacterial-type Shine-Dalgarno interaction to assist in ribosome binding, nor was any other consensus sequence evident. In fact, indels in the form of tandem repeats were seen among homologues from different plants. We did, however, observe a bias for high adenosine and low cytosine in the proximal approximately 30 nt compared with further upstream. Duplicates of some sequences in our data set were found to be associated with more than one gene within a genome. Indeed, 3 such families of upstream cassettes were identified, and they exhibit a lineage-specific distribution among plants. Moreover, the presence of related sequences at genomic sites distant from known genes raises the possibility of future recruitment as regulatory elements. Our observations point to a dynamic nature in the makeup of the 5' leaders of plant mitochondrial mRNAs and an apparent plasticity in translational control elements.
17301500	Expression of HpaG(Xoo), a bacterial type-III effector, in transgenic plants induces disease resistance. Resistance also can be elicited by biocontrol bacteria. In both cases, plant growth is often promoted. Here we address whether biocontrol bacteria and HpaG(Xoo) can act together to provide better results in crop improvement. We studied effects of Pseudomonas cepacia on the rice variety R109 and the hpaG(Xoo)-expressing rice line HER1. Compared to R109, HER1 showed increased growth, grain yield, and defense responses toward diseases and salinity stress. Colonization of roots by P. cepacia caused 20% and 13% increase, in contrast to controls, in root growth of R109 and HER1. Growth of leaves and stems also increased in R109 but that of HER1 was inhibited. When P. cepacia colonization was subsequent to plant inoculation with Rhizoctonia solani, a pathogen that causes sheath blight, the disease was less severe than controls in both R109 and HER1; HER1, nevertheless, was more resistant, suggesting that P. cepacia and HpaG(Xoo) cooperate in inducing disease resistance. Several genes that critically regulate growth and defense behaved differentially in HER1 and R109 while responding to P. cepacia. In R109 leaves, the OsARF1 gene, which regulates plant growth, was expressed in consistence with growth promotion by P. cepacia. Inversely, OsARF1 expression was coincident with inhibition in growth of HER1 leaves. In both plants, the expression of OsEXP1, which encodes an expansin protein involved in plant growth,was concomitant with growth promotion in leaves instead of roots,in response to P. cepacia . We also studied OsMAPK, a gene that encodes a mitogen-activated protein kinase and controls defense responses toward salinity and infection by pathogens in rice. In response to P. cepacia, an early expression of OsMAPK was coincident with R109 resistance to the disease, while HER1 expressed the gene similarly whether P. cepacia was present or not. Evidently, P. cepacia and G(Xoo)-gene mediated resistance may act differently in rice growth and resistance. Whereas combinative effects of P. cepacia and HpaG(Xoo) in disease resistance have a great potential in agricultural use, it is interesting to study mechanisms that underlie interactions involving biocontrol bacteria, type-III effectors and pathogens.
17301503	Plants benefit extensively by harbouring endophytic microbes. They promote plant growth and confer enhanced resistance to various pathogens. However, the way the interactions among endophytes influence the plant productivity has not been explained. Present study experimentally showed that endophytes isolated from rice (Oryza sativa) used as the test plant produced two types of interactions; biofilms (bacteria attached to mycelia) and mixed cultures with no such attachments. Acidity, as measured by pH in cultures with biofilms was higher than that of fungi alone, bacteria alone or the mixed cultures. Production of indoleacetic acid like substances (IAAS) of biofilms was higher than that of mixed cultures, fungi or bacteria. Bacteria and fungi produced higher quantities of IAAS than mixed cultures. In mixed cultures, the potential of IAAS production of resident microbes was reduced considerably. There was a negative relationship between IAAS and pH of the biofilms, indicating that IAAS was the main contributor to the acidity. However, such a relationship was not observed in mixed cultures. Microbial acid production is important for suppressing plant pathogens. Thus the biofilm formation in endophytic environment seems to be very important for healthy and improved plant growth. However, it is unlikely that an interaction among endophytes takes place naturally in the endophytic environment, due to physical barriers of plant tissues. Further, critical cell density dependant quorum sensing that leads to biofilm formation may not occur in the endophytic environment as there is a limited space. As such in vitro production and application of beneficial biofilmed inocula of endophytes are important for improved plant production in any agro-ecosystem. The conventional practice of plant inoculation with monocultures or mixed cultures of effective microbes may not give the highest microbial effect, which may only be achieved by biofilm formation.
17301723	Rice is the world's leading staple cereal food and is the major source of protein for many parts of the world. Rice is among the first solid foods fed to infants in many cultures, in part because of its hypoallergenicity from lack of gluten. Nutritional quality of rice protein compares favorably with other cereal proteins including wheat, oat and barley. It is rich in methionine and cystine, although as is the case for other cereals, it is an incomplete protein source for human infants with lysine and threonine being the primary limiting amino acids. Fortification of rice proteins with these two limiting amino acids improves its protein quality. Rice protein-based infant formulas (RPF) were initially based on high protein rice flours, but more recently are based on rice protein concentrates, isolates or hydrolysates, fortified with lysine and threonine. Hypoallergenicity efficacy, particularly for hydrolyzed rice protein-based formulas, has been reported, and limited data indicated that rice protein based infant formula may provide potentially adequate alternative if standard milk- or soy protein-based formulas are not tolerated. Unlike the rice-protein based infant formula, rice beverage formulas made from rice flour are nutritionally inadequate for infants. Reports have indicated stunted growth in infants/children fed rice beverage formulas. Future development for the RPF include those based on genetically improved rice with high lysine and threonine content, supplementation with appropriate mineral and fat blend, and long-term clinical studies in infants to confirm its efficacy and safety.
17302945	The aim of this study was to compare objective and subjective hardness of selected common foods with a wax cube used as a test item in a mixing ability test. Objective hardness was determined for 11 foods (cream cheese, boiled fish paste, boiled beef, apple, raw carrot, peanut, soft/hard rice cracker, jelly, plain chocolate and chewing gum) and the wax cube. Peak force (N) to compress each item was obtained from force-time curves generated with the Tensipresser. Perceived hardness ratings of each item were made by 30 dentate subjects (mean age 26.9 years) using a visual analogue scale (100 mm). These subjective assessments were given twice with a 1 week interval. High intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) for test-retest reliability were seen for all foods (ICC > 0.68; P < 0.001). One-way anova found a significant effect of food type on both the objective hardness score and the subjective hardness rating (P < 0.001). The wax cube showed significant lower objective hardness score (32.6 N) and subjective hardness rating (47.7) than peanut (45.3 N, 63.5) and raw carrot (82.5 N, 78.4) [P < 0.05; Ryan-Einot-Gabriel-Welsch (REGW)-F]. A significant semilogarithmic relationship was found between the logarithm of objective hardness scores and subjective hardness ratings across twelve test items (r = 0.90; P < 0.001). These results suggest the wax cube has a softer texture compared with test foods traditionally used for masticatory performance test, such as peanut and raw carrot. The hardness of the wax cube could be modified to simulate a range of test foods by changing mixture ratio of soft and hard paraffin wax.
17302963	Extracts of Chinese red yeast rice (RYR, a traditional dietary seasoning of Monascus purpureus) contains several active ingredients including lovastatin, and several trials of its possible lipid-lowering effects have been conducted. This meta-analysis assesses the effectiveness and safety of RYR preparations on lipid modification in primary hyperlipidemia. We included randomized controlled trials testing RYR preparation, compared with placebo, no treatment, statins, or other active lipid-lowering agents in people with hyperlipidemia through searching PubMed, CBMdisk, TCMLARS, the Cochrane Library, and AMED up to December 2004. Ninety-three randomized trials (9625 participants) were included and three RYR preparations (Cholestin, Xuezhikang and Zhibituo) were tested. The methodological quality of trial reports was generally low in terms of generation of the allocation sequence, allocation concealment, blinding, and intention-to-treat. The combined results showed significant reduction of serum total cholesterol levels (weighted mean difference -0.91 mmol/L, 95% confidence interval -1.12 to -0.71), triglycerides levels (-0.41 mmol/L, -0.6 to -0.22), and LDL-cholesterol levels (-0.73 mmol/L, -1.02 to -0.043), and increase of HDL-cholesterol levels (0.15 mmol/L, 0.09 to 0.22) by RYR treatment compared with placebo. The lipid modification effects appeared to be similar to pravastatin, simvastatin, lovastatin, atorvastatin, or fluvastatin. Compared with non-statin lipid lowering agents, RYR preparations appeared superior to nicotinate and fish oils, but equal to or less effective than fenofibrate and gemfibrozil. No significant difference in lipid profile was found between Xuezhikang and Zhibituo. RYR preparations were associated with non-serious adverse effects such as dizziness and gastrointestinal discomfort. Current evidence shows short-term beneficial effects of RYR preparations on lipid modification. More rigorous trials are needed, and long-term effects and safety should be investigated if RYR preparations are to be recommended as one of the alternative treatments for primary hyperlipidemia.
17303413	This work investigates the adsorption of paraquat from aqueous medium using a methacrylic acid (MAA)-modified rice husk. The carboxyl groups were chemically bound to the surface of the rice husk by graft copolymerization using Fenton's reagent as a redox initiator. The graft copolymerization was examined to determine the H(2)O(2) concentration and the amount of MAA monomer used. FT-IR spectra confirmed the presence of carbonyl groups on the structural units of the rice husk derivative. The MAA-modified rice husks were hydrolyzed to sodium salt and used to adsorb paraquat. The adsorption was rapid in the first few minutes and quickly reached equilibrium. Equilibrium adsorption data are more consistent with the Langmuir isotherm equation than with the Freundlich equation. The maximum adsorption capacity of modified rice husks was 317.7mg/g-adsorbent. This value clearly exceeds the 60mg/g of Fuller's earth and the 90mg/g of activated carbon, which are the most commonly used binding agents for paraquat.
17303594	PINOID, a serine threonine protein kinase in Arabidopsis, controls auxin distribution through a positive control of subcellular localization of PIN auxin efflux carriers. Compared with the rapid progress in understanding mechanisms of auxin action in dicot species, little is known about auxin action in monocot species. Here, we describe the identification and characterization of OsPID, the PINOID ortholog of rice. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the rice genome contains a single PID ortholog, OsPID. Constitutive overexpression of OsPID caused a variety of abnormalities, such as delay of adventitious root development, curled growth of shoots and agravitropism. Abnormalities observed in the plants that overexpress OsPID could be phenocopied by treatment with an inhibitor of active polar transport of auxin, indicating that OsPID could be involved in the control of polar auxin transport in rice. Analysis of OsPID mRNA distribution showed a complex pattern in shoot meristems, indicating that it probably plays a role in the pattern formation and organogenesis in the rice shoot.
17305073	We report a case of emergent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in a survivor of an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. A 64-year-old male driver lost consciousness and collapsed in a rice paddy field. A bystander placed him in a car and immediately started cardiopulmonary resuscitation after confirming the presence of pulselessness and apnea. Emergency medical service providers performed a defibrillation of ventricular fibrillation by using an automated external defibrillator (AED), and the patient was transferred to the critical care center in our hospital. Coronary angiography revealed a thrombus in the left main trunk (LMT), total occlusion of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and the right coronary artery (RCA), and 90% stenosis of the left circumflex artery (Cx). Since the patient recovered consciousness 1 hour after admission and did not undergo any critical trauma, an on-pump CABG was performed for 3 vessels. He was discharged on the postoperative day 23, and he resumed a normal life.
17305149	A study was performed to examine the effects of reclaimed-water irrigation on microorganism concentration in the ponded-water of paddy rice plots. Several treatments were used and each one was triplicated to evaluate the change of indicator microorganisms (total coliforms (TC), faecal coliforms (FC), and E. coli) concentrations in 2003 and 2004 growing seasons. Their concentrations increased significantly after irrigation, but decreased by approximately 45% in 24 h. It implies that agricultural activities such as ploughing and fertilising need to be practiced one or two days after irrigation, considering health risks. Treatments with UV-disinfected water irrigation, demonstrated significantly lower concentrations than others, including control plots where natural water was irrigated. The monitoring result from actual paddy rice fields and experimental paddy plots showed that concentrations of indicator microorganisms ranged from 10(2) to 10(5) MPN/100 mL. The field scale water reuse research project is in progress and national guidelines for reclaimed-water irrigation are under preparation in Korea. A comprehensive assessment of existing agricultural practices and a thorough monitoring in the fields as well as treatment plots are recommended to make national guidelines more representative.
17305176	The performance of a constructed wetland (CW) and wastewater stabilisation pond (WSP) system for sewage reclamation and paddy rice irrigation in a decentralised rural area was examined using a feasibility study. The CW was satisfactory for sewage treatment, with good removal efficiency even in the winter period, but the effluent concentration was relatively high in the winter period owing to the high influent concentration. The CW effluent was further treated in a WSP and the WSP effluent was considered safe for crop irrigation with respect to sewage-borne pathogens. Reclaimed water irrigation did not adversely affect the yield of rice; on the contrary, it resulted in an approximately 50% greater yield than in controls. The chemical characteristics of the soil did not change significantly during the experimental period of irrigation with reclaimed water. In the winter, CW effluent could be stored and treated in a WSP until the spring; the water could then be discharged or reused for supplemental irrigation during the typical Korean spring drought. Overall, sewage treatment and agronomic reuse using a CW-WSP system could be a practical integrated sewage management measure for protecting receiving water bodies and overcoming water shortages in decentralised rural areas.
17305353	Chromatographic separation of soluble proteins from rice (Oryza sativa L.) yielded a major albumin protein (16 kDa), with the DHHQVYSPGEQ sequence in the N terminus, showing antioxidant action. The rice albumin was more potent than other rice proteins in preventing Cu2+-induced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation. Additionally, it also exhibited a remarkable suppression of HOCl oxidation. In a further study, albumin inhibited Cu2+-induced oxidation of LDL in a stoichiometric manner with an EC50 value of 4.3 microM, close to that of serum albumins. Moreover, after digestion with trypsin or chymotrypsin, it maintained its antioxidant action. In an experiment to see the involvement of the N terminus in antioxidant action, a synthetic tetrapeptide, equivalent to the N terminus DHHQ, was found to inhibit Cu2+-induced LDL oxidation or degradation of apolipoprotein B, similar to that of rice albumin. In mechanistic analyses, the action of rice albumin or tetrapeptide is primarily due to the removal of Cu2+, as suggested from its inhibitory effect on Cu2+/diphenylcarbohydrazide (DPCH) complex formation. However, despite its similar inhibitory effect on Cu2+-induced oxidation of LDL, rice albumin was less effective than serum albumin in inhibiting Cu2+/DPCH complex formation, suggesting that the number of Cu2+-binding sites in rice albumin may be less than that in serum albumins. Taken together, rice albumin exerts a potent preventive action against Cu2+-induced oxidations, which is due to the Cu2+ binding by DHHQ in the N-terminal sequence. Such a role as a Cu2+ chelator would add up to the application of rice albumin protein.
17306258	Two gene classes characterized by high and low GC content have been found in rice and other cereals, but not dicot genomes. We used paralogs with high and low GC contents in rice and found: (a) a greater increase in GC content at exonic fourfold-redundant sites than at flanking introns; (b) with reference to their orthologs in Arabidopsis, most substitution sites between the two kinds of paralogs are found at 2- and 4-degenerate sites with a T-->C mode, while A-->C and A-->G play major roles at 0-degenerate sites; and (c) high-GC genes have greater bias and codon usage is skewed toward codons that are preferred in highly expressed genes. We believe this is strong evidence for selectively driven codon usage in rice. Another cereal, maize, also showed the same trend as in rice. This represents a potential evolutionary process for the origin of genes with a high GC content in rice and other cereals.
17306416	A single dominant gene Gc controls the trait of high chlorophyll (Chl) content in rice (cultivar (cv.) Zhenshan 97B). The contents of Chl b and total Chl increased 100% and 25%, respectively, when Gc was introduced. In addition, photosynthetic rate, biomass and grain yield also increased by 20%, 17% and 16%, respectively. Three simple sequence repeats (SSR) markers (rm462, rm6340 and rm6464) that are linked to Gc were identified by amplification of DNA samples from near-isogenic lines using two hundred pairs of primers. The genetic distances on the short arm of rice chromosome 1 between Gc and rm6464, rm6340 and rm462 were 0, 0.588 and 1.18 cM, respectively.
17306807	Deoxynivalenol (DON) is a mycotoxin produced by several Fusarium species and is toxic to a wide range of organisms, including human beings and livestock. To produce large amounts of pure DON for research purposes, a novel method using high-speed counter-current chromatography (HSCCC) was developed. Rice cultured with Fusarium graminearum and field mouldy corn infected by F. graminearum were extracted with methanol and found to contain 1.16 and 1.30 mg DON/g, respectively. The extracts were concentrated and then separated using a biphasic solvent system consisting of ethyl acetate-water (1:1, v/v). Collected fractions were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and identified by congruent retention time and UV/vis spectrum and mass spectrometric data. Fractions containing DON were combined and freeze-dried. This method produced 116 mg and 65 mg DON with a purity of greater than 94.9% from 200 g of the rice culture and the mouldy corn, respectively. The HSCCC method had a recovery rate of DON at 88% from the crude extracts of both samples. This one-step purification method provided a simple and effective tool for obtaining a large amount of DON, an essential material for studies related to toxicology and detoxification of this mycotoxin.
17306927	A carbonaceous sorbent was prepared from rice husk via sulfuric acid treatment. Removal of Cd(II) and Se(IV) from aqueous solution was studied varying time, pH, metal concentration, temperature and sorbent status (wet and dry). Cd(II) sorption was found fast reaching equilibrium within approximately 2 h while Se(IV) sorption was slow reaching equilibrium within approximately 200 h with better performance for the wet sorbent than for the dry. Kinetics data for both metals were found to follow pseudo-second order model. Cd(II) sorption was low at low pH values and increased with pH increase, however, Se(IV) sorption was high at low pH values, and decreased with the rise in initial pH until pH 7. A fall in the final pH was noticed with Cd(II) sorption due to the release of protons indicating an ion exchange mechanism. However, for Se(IV) sorption, a rise in the final pH was observed due to protons consumption in the process. For both metals, sorption fit well the Langmuir equation with higher uptake by rising the temperature. Analysis by scanning electron microscope and X-ray powder diffraction for the sorbent after the reaction with acidified Se(IV) confirmed the availability of elemental selenium, Se(0), as particles on the sorbent surface. The reduction process of acidified Se(IV) to Se(0) is accompanied by surface oxidation. Physicochemical tests showed an increase in sorbent acidity, cation exchange capacity and surface functionality after the reaction with acidified Se(IV) indicating that oxidation processes took place on the sorbent surface. On the other hand, no changes in physicochemical tests were found after Cd(II) sorption indicating the absence of redox processes between Cd(II) and the sorbent.
17307154	Physical mapping and map-based cloning strategies are routinely used for identification of candidate genes for major qualitative traits in rice. Such strategies have enabled mapping and characterization of dominant bacterial leaf blight (blb) resistance genes, but little progress has been made in case of the recessive resistance genes. Two recent studies on map-based cloning of xa5 and xa13 recessive blb resistance genes identified the general transcription factor IIA gamma subunit (TFIIAgamma) and the nodulin MtN21 as candidates, respectively. Subsequently, two other reports have raised discussion on whether the identified candidates are indeed recessive resistance genes, and are sufficient to confer blb resistance in rice. Based on published evidence, and our extensive in silico analyses of the genomic environment around xa5 and xa13 regions, we propose that the recessive gene mediated resistance mechanism is more complex and might not be governed by a single gene.
17309686	The key regulator of salicylic acid (SA)-mediated resistance, NPR1, is functionally conserved in diverse plant species, including rice (Oryza sativa L.). Investigation in depth is needed to provide an understanding of NPR1-mediated resistance and a practical strategy for the improvement of disease resistance in the model crop rice. The rice genome contains five NPR1-like genes. In our study, three rice homologous genes, OsNPR1/NH1, OsNPR2/NH2 and OsNPR3, were found to be induced by rice bacterial blight Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae and rice blast Magnaporthe grisea, and the defence molecules benzothiadiazole, methyl jasmonate and ethylene. We confirmed that OsNPR1 is the rice orthologue by complementing the Arabidopsis npr1 mutant. Over-expression of OsNPR1 conferred disease resistance to bacterial blight, but also enhanced herbivore susceptibility in transgenic plants. The OsNPR1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was localized in the cytoplasm and moved into the nucleus after redox change. Mutations in its conserved cysteine residues led to the constitutive localization of OsNPR1(2CA)-GFP in the nucleus and also abolished herbivore hypersensitivity in transgenic rice. Different subcellular localizations of OsNPR1 antagonistically regulated SA- and jasmonic acid (JA)-responsive genes, but not SA and JA levels, indicating that OsNPR1 might mediate antagonistic cross-talk between the SA- and JA-dependent pathways in rice. This study demonstrates that rice has evolved an SA-mediated systemic acquired resistance similar to that in Arabidopsis, and also provides a practical approach for the improvement of disease resistance without the penalty of decreased herbivore resistance in rice.
17309726	We have developed a simple binary vector construction system for the simultaneous expression of multiple genes in plants. Up to three independent gene cassettes can be easily integrated into one binary vector using the MultiSite Gateway System. Using this system, we produced transgenic rice plants that accumulated high levels of the hypocholesterolaemic peptide lactostatin (IIAEK) in endosperm. Binary vectors were constructed that could accommodate up to three independent modified glutelin gene cassettes encoding multimer lactostatin in the variable regions. Eight construct permutations were used for rice transformation. We measured the accumulation of lactostatin expressed as a glutelin fusion protein in the mature seeds of 105 independent transgenic rice lines. A general correlation was observed between accumulation level and gene number in the vector constructs, indicating that a higher accumulation of lactostatin was obtained from transgenic rice plants containing the maximum number of gene inserts. These results indicate that this strategy is applicable for the selection of transgenic lines containing large amounts of bioactive peptides in rice seeds.
17309731	Cereal crops have been the primary targets for improvement by genetic transformation because of their worldwide importance for human consumption. For a long time, many of these important cereals were difficult to genetically engineer, mainly as a result of their inherent limitations associated with the resistance to Agrobacterium infection and their recalcitrance to in vitro regeneration. The delivery of foreign genes to rice plants via Agrobacterium tumefaciens has now become a routine technique. However, there are still serious handicaps with Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of other major cereals. In this paper, we review the pioneering efforts, existing problems and future prospects of Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation of major cereal crops, such as rice, maize, wheat, barley, sorghum and sugarcane.
17309736	The introgression of transgenes into wild relatives or weeds through pollen-mediated gene flow is a major concern in environmental risk assessment of transgenic crops. A large-scale (1.3-1.8 ha) rice gene flow study was conducted using transgenic rice containing the bar gene as a pollen donor and Oryza rufipogon as a recipient. There was a high frequency of transgene flow (11%-18%) at 0-1 m, with a steep decline with increasing distance to a detection limit of 0.01% by 250 m. To our knowledge, this is the highest frequency and longest distance of gene flow from transgenic rice to O. rufipogon reported so far. On the basis of these data, an adequate isolation distance from both conventional and transgenic rice should be taken for in situ conservation of common wild rice. Meanwhile, there is no evidence of transgene introgression into barnyard grass, even when it has coexisted with transgenic rice containing the bar gene for five successive years. Thus, the environmental risk of gene flow to this weedy species is of little concern.
1731088	We have determined the nucleotide sequence of a 7 kb (1 kb = 10(3) base-pairs) region that includes the entire small single-copy region (SSC) of the plastid genome of Epifagus virginiana, a non-photosynthetic, parasitic flowering plant. The SSC (4.8 kb) is considerably smaller than those of photosynthetic plants due to the complete deletion of all photosynthetic, chlororespiratory and ribosomal protein genes. This leaves only two genes: a protein gene of 1738 codons whose product is unlikely to be involved in bioenergetic processes and a leucine tRNA gene (trn(LUAG)). Both genes span junctions between the inverted repeat and the SSC, with the consequence that the terminal 20 base-pairs of the repeat is transcribed in both directions and functions both as the 3' end of the tRNA gene and as an internal segment of orf1738. We find that the region of tobacco plastid DNA homologous to Epifagus orf1738 contains a single open reading frame (ORF) of 1901 codons rather than the three ORFs of 1244, 273 and 228 codons originally reported. However, we confirm that the equivalent region of the bryophyte Marchantia contains two genes (1068 and 464 codons) corresponding to the N and C-terminal portions of the dicot protein. In contrast, rice plastid DNA contains a severely truncated pseudogene at this locus.
17311060	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between dietary antioxidant intake and the risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in a case-control study. An antioxidant intake score was calculated for individual values for each food group (soy products, green yellow-vegetables, fruits, boiled rice and tea) collected by a self-administered food frequency questionnaire. Incident SAH cases (n=201) were identified and individually matched for age (+/-2 years) and gender to community (n=201) controls from April 1992 to March 1997. The antioxidant intake score was inversely associated with the risk of SAH, even after adjusting for confounding factors (lowest vs highest score adjusted odds ratio, 0.54; 95% confidence interval, 0.30-0.99). These findings suggest that the development of SAH may be reduced by the frequent intake of various antioxidants in the diet. Prospective studies are needed to confirm the relationship of dietary antioxidants to SAH risk in Japanese men and women.
17311403	A multiwell plate bioassay was developed using genetically modified bacteria (bioreporter cells) to detect inorganic arsenic extracted from rice. The bacterial cells expressed luciferase upon exposure to arsenite, the activity of which was detected by measurement of cellular bioluminescence. The bioreporter cells detected arsenic in all rice varieties tested, with averages of 0.02-0.15 microg of arsenite equivalent per gram of dry weight and a method detection limit of 6 ng of arsenite per gram of dry rice. This amounted to between approximately 20 and 90% of the total As content reported by chemical methods for the same sample and suggested that a major proportion of arsenic in rice is in the inorganic form. Calibrations of the bioassay with pure inorganic and organic arsenic forms showed that the bacterial cells react to arsenite with highest affinity, followed by arsenate (with 25% response relative to an equivalent arsenite concentration) and trimethylarsine oxide (at 10% relative response). A method for biocompatible arsenic extraction was elaborated, which most optimally consisted of (i) grinding rice to powder, (ii) mixing with an aqueous solution containing pancreatic enzymes, (iii) mechanical shearing, (iv) extraction in mild acid conditions and moderate heat, and (v) centrifugation and pH neutralization. Detection of mainly inorganic arsenic by the bacterial cells may have important advantages for toxicity assessment of rice consumption and would form a good complement to total chemical arsenic determination.
17312944	A U1-snRNP--specific 70K (U1-70K) protein is intricately involved in both constitutive and alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs. Here, we report cDNA and cognate genomic sequences of the U1-70K gene of maize and rice. The maize and rice U1-70K genes bear strong similarity to the Arabidopsis gene and each encode three transcripts in roots and shoots. Alternative splicing produces two transcripts from each gene in addition to the mRNA encoding the wild type protein. In both cases, selective inclusion of intron 6 or utilization of a cryptic donor site within intron 6 sequence generates the two alternatively spliced transcripts. This evolutionary conservation of splicing patterns between different plant species suggests an important biological function for alternative splicing in the expression of U1-70K gene.
17312990	Using a cDNA microarray consisting of 9198 expressed sequence tags, we surveyed the gene expression profiles in shoots and roots of a rice hybrid, Liangyoupei 9 and its parents Peiai 64s and 93-11 at 72 h after germination. A total of 8587 sequences had detectable signals in both shoots and roots of the three genotypes. A total of 1571 sequences exhibited significant (P < 0.01) expression differences in shoots or roots among the three genotypes, of which 121 showed expression polymorphisms in both shoots and roots, and 870 revealed significant expression differences between the hybrid and one of the parents. The expression polymorphism of the sequences was associated with the functional categories of the sequences. They occurred more frequently in categories of carbohydrate, energy and lipid metabolisms and stress response than expected, while less frequently in categories of amino acid metabolism, transcription and translation regulation, and signal transduction. A total of 214 sequences exhibited significant (P < 0.05) mid-parent heterosis in expression, of which 117 had homology to genes with known functions, assigned in the categories of basic metabolism, genetic information processing, cell growth and death, signal transduction, transportation and stress response. The results may provide useful information for exploring the relationship between gene expression polymorphism and phenotypic variation, and for characterizing the molecular mechanism of seedling development and heterosis in rice.
17312992	In the leaf of rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar Yunnan purple rice, the anthocyanins with an obvious absorption peak at 530nm were distributed in the cells of upper and lower epidermis, bulliform tissue and bristle. The maximal photosynthetic oxygen evolution rate and chlorophyll content in flag leaves were 28% and 23%, respectively, more than the common green leaf rice cultivar Chijiaoruanzhan. Higher chlorophyll content is probably one of the physiological adaptations for enhancing light harvesting capacity of the antenna in photosystems in this cyanic leaves species. Upon the photooxidation of leaf segments mediated by methyl viologen in weak light for 3 days, the distinct bleaching of anthocyanins in purple rice was associated with the reduction of scavenging ability to DPPH * free radical ability and the increase in membrane leakage rate. But almost no changes in contents of flavonoids and total phenolics were observed. Chlorophyll fluorescence parameters Fv/Fo, qP and phi(PSII) decreased with the increase in NPQ and DES of xanthophylls cycle after photooxidation treatment. Green rice leaves showed more decrease in DPPH * scavenging rate and more increase in cell membrane leakage rate but showed a trace of anthocyanins during photooxidation. It is suggested that anthocyanin may be a beneficial and primary antioxidant in sun cyanic rice leaves against oxidative stress induced by environmental adversity. And photooxidation could induce different changing patterns of anthocyanins between the tested purple and green rice leaves.
17313662	Many bacterial species are known to thrive within plants. Among these bacteria, a group referred to as endophytes provide beneficial effects to the host plants by the promotion of plant growth and the suppression of plant pathogens. Among 44 putative endophytic isolates isolated from surface-sterilized rice roots, Burkholderia sp. KJ006 was selected for further study because of a lack of pathogenicity to rice, a broad spectrum of antifungal properties, and the presence of the nifH gene, which is an indicator for nitrogen fixation. In an attempt to control Burkholderia glumae, a casual pathogen of seedling rot and grain rot of rice, an N-acyl-homoserine lactonase (aiiA) gene from Bacillus thuringiensis was introduced into Burkholderia sp. KJ006 given that the major virulence factor of Burkholderia glumae is controlled in a population-dependent manner (quorum sensing). The engineered strain KJ006 (pKPE-aiiA) inhibited production of quorum-sensing signals by Burkholderia glumae in vitro and reduced the disease incidence of rice seedling rot caused by Burkholderia glumae in situ. Our results indicate the possibility that a bacterial endophyte transformed with the aiiA gene can be used as a novel biological control agent against pathogenic Burkholderia glumae that are known to occupy the same ecological niche.
17314006	Fluoride in drinking water above permissible levels is responsible for human and skeletal fluorosis. In this study, activated carbons (AC) prepared by one-step steam pyrolysis of rice straw at 550, 650, 750 degrees C, respectively, were modified by liquid-phase oxidation using HNO3, H2O2 and KMnO4. Characterization of these 12 carbons was made by their surface area, porosity, acidity, basicity, pH(pzc), pH and ability to remove fluoride anion. Based on the data of the latter factor, the RS2/KMnO4 carbon was selected. Along with batch adsorption studies, which involve effect of pH, adsorbate concentration, adsorbent dosage, contact time, temperature, and Co-ions (SO4(2-), Cl-, Br-). The effects of natural organic matter (NOM) were also made to remove the fluoride from natural water. On the basis of kinetic studies, specific rate constants involved in the adsorption process using RS2/KMnO4 carbon was calculated and second-order adsorption kinetics was observed. Equation isotherms such as Langmuir (L), Freundlich (F), Langmuir-Freundlich (LF) and Dubinin-Radushkevich (DR) were successfully used to model the experimental data. From the DR isotherm parameters, it was considered that the uptake of F- by RS2/KMnO4 carbon proceeds by an ion-exchange mechanism (E=10.46 kJ mol(-1)). The thermodynamic parameters of fluoride sorption were calculated and the sorption process was chemical in nature. The ability of RS2/KMnO4 to remove F- from Egyptian crude phosphoric acid (P(2)O(5)=48.42%) was tested and the adsorption capacity of F- in H(3)PO(4) was greater than that in distilled water. This is may be due to fluoride adsorption enhanced at lower pH of crude acid.
17314052	In this study, we synthesized a synthetic serine proteinase inhibitor II gene (sPI-II) that harbored the chymotrypsin and trypsin inhibitor domains of the PI-II gene from Nicotiana alata. In an effort to reduce protease activity in a rice cell suspension culture, we first synthesized sPI-II using overlap PCR and then introduced the gene into a rice calli (Oryza sativa L. cv. Dongin) by particle bombardment-mediated transformation. The sPI-II gene was under the control of a rice alpha-amylase 3D promoter induced by sugar starvation. To verify the integration and expression of the sPI-II gene in the transformed rice cells, we employed genomic DNA PCR amplification and Northern blot analysis, respectively. The relative protease activity of the transformed cell suspension culture was reduced to approximately 23% when compared to the non-transformed culture. This indicates that a transformed suspension culture system expressing a proteinase inhibitor, may be a useful tool to protect against recombinant protein losses resulting from extracellular proteases.
17315478	Knowledge of the nutritional state of the children is an valuable indicator of the general state of development in an entire population. The prevalence of malnutrition was determined in Embera-Katio's indigenous children, aged 0-6 years, and associated factors associated with malnutrition were identified. A cross-sectional study was undertaken in the Resguardo Embera-Kato, in Tierralta in the Province of Cordoba, located in northern Colombia. The weight, height and cephalic perimeter was assessed for each of 272 children under six years of age. Nutritional paramterers were surveyed in 194 homes; fecal samples of 172 children were examined for evidence of intestinal parasites. Prevalence of moderate and severe chronic malnutrition was found in 63.6% of the children's; 8.8% were categorized with slight and moderate acute malnutrition. Chronic malnutrition was associated with age increase (p=0.005) and was greater in males than in females (89.9% versus 80.4%; p=0.028). Chronic malnutrition was greater in children with acute respiratory infection, acute diarrheas, and in homes with three or more children below the age of five. In 74% of the children, the cephalic perimeter was below the fifth percentile. After weaning, the children were fed a basic diet of rice and corn (80.4%) and plantain (80.9%). Only 28.9% ate meat, 4.6% eggs, 4.1% milk and 1.5% fruits and vegetables. The prevalence of intestinal parasitism was 78.1%. The prevalence of chronic malnutrition in the Embera-Katio children was high, reflecting the adverse nutritional and economic conditions in which they live.
17317180	Two sesterterpene sulfates (1-2) were isolated from tropical sponge Hippospongia sp. and their inhibitory activities against isocitrate lyase (ICL) from the rice blast fungus Mgnaporthe grisea were evaluated. Compound 3 was obtained by hydrolysis of compound 1. Compounds 1 and 3 were found to be potent ICL inhibitors, which inhibited appressorium formation and C(2) carbon utilization in M. grisea. Our results suggest that ICL plays crucial role in appressorium formation of M. grisea and is a new target for the protection of rice blast disease.
17317519	Influence of heat processing on the bioaccessibility of zinc and iron from food grains consumed in India was evaluated. Cereals - rice (Oryza sativa), finger millet (Eleusine coracana), sorghum (Sorghum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and maize (Zea mays), and pulses - chickpea (Cicer arietinum) - whole and decorticated, green gram (Phaseolus aureus) - whole and decorticated, decorticated black gram (Phaseolus mungo), decorticated red gram (Cajanus cajan), cowpea (Vigna catjang), and French bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) were examined for zinc and iron bioaccessibility by employing an in vitro dialysability procedure. Both pressure-cooking and microwave heating were tested for their influence on mineral bioaccessibility. Zinc bioaccessibility from food grains was considerably reduced upon pressure-cooking, especially in pulses. Among cereals, pressure-cooking decreased zinc bioaccessibility by 63% and 57% in finger millet and rice, respectively. All the pressure-cooked cereals showed similar percent zinc bioaccessibility with the exception of finger millet. Bioaccessibility of zinc from pulses was generally lower as a result of pressure-cooking or microwave heating. The decrease in bioaccessibility of zinc caused by microwave heating ranged from 11.4% in chickpea (whole) to 63% in cowpea. Decrease in zinc bioaccessibility was 48% in pressure-cooked whole chickpea, 45% and 55% in pressure-cooked or microwave-heated whole green gram, 32% and 22% in pressure-cooked or microwave-heated decorticated green gram, and 45% in microwave-heated black gram. Iron bioaccessibility, on the other hand, was significantly enhanced generally from all the food grains studied upon heat treatment. Thus, heat treatment of grains produced contrasting effect on zinc and iron bioaccessibility.
17317525	Antioxidative activity and polyphenol and trace metal content in bran from ancient rice varieties (red and black rice) and a present-day variety of rice (Koshihikari) were measured. The antioxidative properties of rice bran in terms of scavenging and quenching activity for reactive oxygen species (ROS), including superoxide anion radicals (*O(2)(-)), hydroxyl radicals (*OH), singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) and lipid peroxide (LOO*), correlated well with polyphenol and trace metal content. In particular, the possibly that Mn content greatly contributes to the antioxidative properties of rice bran was revealed.
17319499	We have evaluated 48 cases of viper (Agkistrodon halys blomhoffii "Mamushi") bite treated in our hospital from 2001 to 2005. Of all the patients, 21 were bitten in rice field/farm, 10 were in path, 9 were in yard and 8 were in other places. Most cases occurred between July and September. The most frequently bitten regions were fingers and toes. Because swelling reached its maximum at 1.1+/-0.5 day, it was difficult to judge the severity of Mamushi bite by the degree of swelling at the first examination. There was no significant relation between the grade classification of swelling and CPK values. Value of CPK became its peek at 2.0+/-1.1 days after bites. Some reports recommend giving antivenin judging from the grade classification. However we could not estimate the severity of Mamushi bite from the degree of swelling and CPK values at the first examination. The degree of swelling and CPK values at the first examination will not be an index to determine the choice of the treatment including use of the antivenin.
1731968	A lambda gt11 cDNA library, constructed from poly(A)+ RNA isolated from immature rice seed endosperm, was screened with affinity-purified antibodies against the rice storage protein called alpha-globulin (previously), or the 19 kDa globulin (our term). A positive clone was isolated and sequenced and shown to encode a 21 kDa precursor for the 19 kDa globulin, based on the identity of portions of the inferred amino acid sequence and the sequence of three cyanogen bromide peptides of the 19 kDa globulin. Analysis of genomic DNA by Southern blotting using the cDNA clone probe revealed one hybridizing band in Eco RI, Hind III, and Bam HI digests. This strongly suggests that the 19 kDa globulin is encoded by a single-copy gene. Because of its single-copy nature and its abundance of Arg and lack of Lys, the 19 kDa rice globulin appears to be a particularly attractive target for genetically engineering increased Lys content in rice seeds.
17319689	A chemical cleanup procedure for low-level quantitative determination of aflatoxins in major economically important agricultural commodities using HPLC has been developed. Aflatoxins were extracted from a ground sample with MeOH/H2O (80:20, v/v), and after a cleanup step on a minicolumn packed with Florisil, aflatoxins were quantified by HPLC equipped with a C18 column, a photochemical reactor, and a fluorescence detector. Water/MeOH (63:37, v/v) served as the mobile phase. Recoveries of aflatoxins B1, B2, G1, and G2 from peanuts spiked at 5, 1.7, 5, and 1.7 ng/g were 89.5+/-2.2, 94.7+/-2.5, 90.4+/-1.0, and 98.2+/-1.1, respectively (mean+/-SD, %, n=3). Similar recoveries, precision, and accuracy were achieved for corn, brown and white rice, cottonseed, almonds, Brazil nuts, pistachios, walnuts, and hazelnuts. The quantitation limits for aflatoxins in peanuts were 50 pg/g for aflatoxin B1 and 17 pg/g for aflatoxin B2. The minimal cost of the minicolumn allows for substantial savings compared with available commercial aflatoxin cleanup devices.
1731971	Two rice cDNA clones (COS6 and COS9) were isolated, corresponding to genes that were highly expressed in roots from seedlings and mature plants. A genomic clone (GOS9) corresponding to cDNA clone COS9 was isolated and the intron/exon structure was determined by comparing the nucleotide sequences of the mRNA and the genomic clone. 5' ends and 3' ends of the mRNA were determined by primer extension and S1-nuclease mapping respectively. The open reading frame present in GOS9 potentially encodes a protein (14 kDa) that does not show any significant homology to other proteins in databases.
1731976	A rice beta-glucanase gene was sequenced and its expression analyzed at the level of mRNA accumulation. This gene (Gns1) is expressed at relatively low levels in germinating seeds, shoots, leaves, panicles and callus, but it is expressed at higher levels in roots. Expression in the roots appears to be constitutive. Shoots express Gns1 at much higher levels when treated with ethylene, cytokinin, salicylic acid, and fungal elicitors derived from the pathogen Sclerotium oryzae or from the non-pathogen Saccharomyces cereviseae. Shoots also express Gns1 at higher levels in response to wounding. Expression in the shoots is not significantly affected by auxin, gibberellic acid or abscisic acid. The beta-glucanase shows 82% amino acid similarity to the barley 1,3;1,4-beta-D-glucanases, and from hybridization studies it is the beta-glucanase gene in the rice genome closest to the barley 1,3;1,4-beta-glucanase EI gene. The mature peptide has a calculated molecular mass of 32 kDa. The gene has a large 3145 bp intron in the codon for the 25th amino acid of the signal peptide. The gene exhibits a very strong codon bias of 99% G + C in the third position of the codon in the mature peptide coding region, but only 61% G + C in the signal peptide region.
1731997
17320370	The use of recycling aluminum from beverage containers and rice-hull ash (RHA) offers to be an attractive alternative for the economic production of Al/SiCp composites. However, corrosion phenomena in the composites represent technological barriers yet to be resolved before they can be exploited to their full potential. A simple methodology involving characterization by XRD, SEM, EDX, FTIR and ICP was designed in order to investigate the causes of the rapid degradation in a humid environment of Al/SiCp composites produced with RHA and aluminum cans. Results reveal that the use of RHA was beneficial to avoid degradation through the formation and subsequent hydration of the Al4C3 phase. However with condensed moisture acting as an electrolyte, localized corrosion took place with aggressive damage manifested by the disintegration of the composite into a powdery mixture. The relevant corrosion mechanism was mainly attributed to microgalvanic coupling between the Mg2Si intermetallic compound and the matrix (although other phases such as SiC, Si, MgAl2O4 could also work as microcathodes).
17320379	A microorganism hydrolyzing rice hull was isolated from soil and identified as Bacillus amyloliquefaciens by analysis of 16S rDNA and partial sequences of the gyrA gene, and named as B. amyloliquefaciens DL-3. With the analysis of SDS-PAGE, the molecular weight of the purified cellulase was estimated to be 54kDa. The purified cellulase hydrolyzed avicel, caboxymethylcellulose (CMC), cellobiose, beta-glucan and xylan, but not p-Nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside (PNPG). Optimum temperature and pH for the CMCase activity of the purified cellulase were found to be 50 degrees C and pH 7.0, respectively. The CMCase activity was inhibited by some metal ions, N-bromosuccinimide and EDTA in the order of Hg(2+)>EDTA>Mn(2+)>N-bromosuccinimide>Ni(2+)>Pb(2+)>Sr(2+)>Co(2+)>K(+). The open reading frame of the cellulase from B. amyloliquefaciens DL-3 was found to encode a protein of 499 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of the cellulase from B. amyloliquefaciens DL-3 showed high identity to cellulases from other Bacillus species, a modular structure containing a catalytic domain of the glycoside hydrolase family 5 (GH5), and a cellulose-binding module type 3 (CBM3).
17320381	The aim of this work was to investigate the effects of aeration rate, aeration method, moisture content, and manure age on the characteristics of dairy manure composting with rice straw in terms of composting temperature, oxygen consumption rate, emission of odorous gases, and final compost property. It was found that the aeration rate of 0.25 L/min-kg VS was capable of achieving the highest composting temperature, longest retention time of high temperature, and less emission of odor gases. Except for the composting temperature reached, there was no significant difference between bottom-forced and top-diffusion aerations in terms of final compost property. The higher initial moisture content (65%) was more favorable for its higher temperature, longer retention time of high temperature, and more stable end compost obtained. Fresh manure showed better composting performance than the aged manure for its higher temperature reached in less time and less ammonia emission. Oxygen consumption rates were basically similar to those of temperatures. Most emissions of the odorous gases occurred during the first week of composting, therefore, special attention should be paid to this period of time for effective odor control.
17320384	This study investigated the production of value-added protein and amino acids from deoiled rice bran by hydrolysis in subcritical water (SW) in the temperature range between 100 and 220 degrees C for 0-30 min. The results suggested that SW could effectively be used to hydrolyze deoiled rice bran to produce useful protein and amino acids. The amount of protein and amino acids produced are higher than those obtained by conventional alkali hydrolysis. The yields generally increased with increased temperature and hydrolysis time. However, thermal degradation of the product was observed when hydrolysis was carried out at higher temperature for extended period of time. The highest yield of protein and amino acids were 219 +/- 26 and 8.0 +/- 1.6 mg/g of dry bran, and were obtained at 200 degrees C at hydrolysis time of 30 min. Moreover, the product obtained at 200 degrees C after 30 min of hydrolysis exhibited high antioxidant activity and was shown to be suitable for use as culture medium for yeast growth.
17322341	C-6 oxidation genes play a key role in the regulation of biologically active brassinosteroid (BR) levels in the plant. They control BR activation, which involves the C-6 oxidation of 6-deoxocastasterone (6-DeoxoCS) to castasterone (CS) and in some cases the further conversion of CS to brassinolide (BL). C-6 oxidation is controlled by the CYP85A family of cytochrome P450s, and to date, two CYP85As have been isolated in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), two in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), one in rice (Oryza sativa), and one in grape (Vitis vinifera). We have now isolated two CYP85As (CYP85A1 and CYP85A6) from pea (Pisum sativum). However, unlike Arabidopsis and tomato, which both contain one BR C-6 oxidase that converts 6-DeoxoCS to CS and one BR C-6 Baeyer-Villiger oxidase that converts 6-DeoxoCS right through to BL, the two BR C-6 oxidases in pea both act principally to convert 6-DeoxoCS to CS. The isolation of these two BR C-6 oxidation genes in pea highlights the species-specific differences associated with C-6 oxidation. In addition, we have isolated a novel BR-deficient mutant, lke, which blocks the function of one of these two BR C-6 oxidases (CYP85A6). The lke mutant exhibits a phenotype intermediate between wild-type plants and previously characterized pea BR mutants (lk, lka, and lkb) and contains reduced levels of CS and increased levels of 6-DeoxoCS. To date, lke is the only mutant identified in pea that blocks the latter steps of BR biosynthesis and it will therefore provide an excellent tool to further examine the regulation of BR biosynthesis and the relative biological activities of CS and BL in pea.
17322409	Rice blast disease is caused by the hemibiotrophic fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, which invades living plant cells using intracellular invasive hyphae (IH) that grow from one cell to the next. The cellular and molecular processes by which this occurs are not understood. We applied live-cell imaging to characterize the spatial and temporal development of IH and plant responses inside successively invaded rice (Oryza sativa) cells. Loading experiments with the endocytotic tracker FM4-64 showed dynamic plant membranes around IH. IH were sealed in a plant membrane, termed the extra-invasive hyphal membrane (EIHM), which showed multiple connections to peripheral rice cell membranes. The IH switched between pseudohyphal and filamentous growth. Successive cell invasions were biotrophic, although each invaded cell appeared to have lost viability when the fungus moved into adjacent cells. EIHM formed distinct membrane caps at the tips of IH that initially grew in neighboring cells. Time-lapse imaging showed IH scanning plant cell walls before crossing, and transmission electron microscopy showed IH preferentially contacting or crossing cell walls at pit fields. This and additional evidence strongly suggest that IH co-opt plasmodesmata for cell-to-cell movement. Analysis of biotrophic blast invasion will significantly contribute to our understanding of normal plant processes and allow the characterization of secreted fungal effectors that affect these processes.
17323077	Rice sucrose synthase1, RSs1 (isolated from rice) and rolC (isolated from Agrobacterium rhizogenes) promoters were evaluated by binding analyses of their respective cis-elements with host nuclear transcription factors. The expression profile of an insecticidal protein driven by these promoters in transgenic plants was monitored. Motif-search analysis with available phloem-specific promoter sequences revealed the presence of two BoxII elements in RSs1. An octopine synthase element, a stem-specific, a root-specific and a light-responsive element were found in the rolC promoter, whereas the ASL box, GATA and 13 bp motifs were detected in both promoters. Binding analysis of these cis-elements (both in native and mutant forms) with the trans-factors present in the nuclear extracts from rice, tobacco and chickpea, followed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay, documented a highly specific cis-trans interaction. Both promoters were utilized to express Allium sativum leaf agglutinin (ASAL) gene in the three aforementioned plant systems. By immunohistochemistry and immunohistofluorescence, specific patterns of ASAL accumulation were detected in vascular tissues of single copy transgenic plants. Transgenic plants expressing ASAL in a phloem-specific manner demonstrated about 60-65% more insecticidal activity than control plants. The two promoters, which evolved independently from two distinctly unrelated origins, were found to maintain their functionality in a conserved manner. They were able to express the insecticidal protein coding ASAL as transgene both in monocot and dicot hosts. Thus, the two promoters are valuable as prospective phloem-specific promoters for use in plant biotechnological programmes.
17323433	Field experiments were conducted in farmers' rice fields in 2001 and 2002 to study the effects of nitrogen (N) management strategies on N use efficiency in recovery (RE), agronomy (AE) and physiology (PE) and redistribution of dry matter accumulation (DMA) and nitrogen accumulation (NA) in two typical rice cultivars in Jinhua, Zhejiang Province. This study aimed mainly at identifying the possible causes of poor fertilizer N use efficiency (NUE) of rice in Zhejiang by comparing farmers' fertilizer practice (FFP) with advanced site-specific nutrient management (SSNM) and real-time N management (RTNM). The results showed that compared to FFP, SSNM and RTNM reduced DMA and NA before panicle initiation and increased DMA and NA at post-flowering. There is no significant difference between SSNM and FFP in post-flowering dry matter redistribution (post-DMR) and post-flowering nitrogen redistribution (post-NR). These results suggest that high input rate of fertilizer N and improper fertilizer N timing are the main factors causing low NUE of irrigated rice in the farmer's routine practice of Zhejiang. With SSNM, about 15% of the current total N input in direct-seeding early rice and 45% in single rice could be reduced without yield loss in Zhejiang, China.
17324449	The pesticide concentration levels flowing into paddy fields and surrounding lagoons of the Rhne river delta were investigated over a period of 6 months in 2004. Water samples were collected at the outlets of the major ditches and in the lagoons in order to study the seasonal variation in pesticide concentrations and the spatial contamination profile. Twenty four pesticides were monitored, mainly herbicides and insecticides. Rice pesticides accounted for 90% of the detection rates while the pesticides transported by the Rhne river water dissolved phase only accounted for 10%. Pretilachlor, oxadiazon, MCPA and bentazone herbicides were found at the highest frequencies into the effluent waters of ditches with maximum concentration levels of 1.2, 0.8, 2.5 and 1.6 microg/L, respectively. Only one insecticide, tebufenozide, was sporadically detected at a maximum concentration level of 0.12 microg/L. There were two main peaks of contamination. The first one in April corresponded to the use of pre-emergence herbicides (oxadiazon and pretilachlor) and the second one in June was related to the post-emergence herbicides (MCPA and bentazone). These concentration peaks were well correlated with the pesticide application period time and rapid pesticide transfer (1-2 weeks) from fields to lagoons were observed. Increased loads of the pre-emergence herbicides were induced by the specific management of paddy fields which includes water emptying of fields before and after rice seeding. Pesticide dissipation into the lagoons occurred very quickly and the duration of the exposure of non-target aquatic organisms to high pesticide concentrations (in total a few microg/L level) was no longer than 2 weeks. According to the physico-chemical properties of the chemicals, contrasting results were observed when studying the spatial variation in pesticide concentrations through the lagoons. The concentrations of bentazone and MCPA, two substances with high phototransformation abilities, quickly decreased between the ditches and the lagoons while the oxadiazon and pretilachlor concentrations were more homogeneous.
17326606	The cytotoxic and antitumor activity of methanolic extract of rice hulls (MERH) were evaluated by the MTT-dye reduction assay against human colon cancer cells and the colonic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) assay in 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH)-injected F344 male rats, respectively. MERH was found to be highly cytotoxic, with IC50 values of 0.5 microg/mL in vitro. Forty weeks of MERH supplementation (50 mg/kg of body weight/day) reduced colonic pre-neoplastic ACF formation by 35% (p < 0.01). An active compound, momilactone B, was isolated from MERH by silica gel chromatography, Sephadex LH-20 chromatography, and HPLC. The cytotoxic activity of momilactone B was evaluated by the MTT-dye reduction, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and colony-forming ability assays in human colon cancer HT-29 and SW620 cells. The results indicated that momilactone B from rice hulls might be a new candidate for chemotherapeutic agent against human colon cancer.
17326673	The transformation of distally related genomic DNAs into plant was proposed as a novel technique to breed new cultivars. For example, a restorer rice line, RB207, was successfully developed and stabilized through the transformation of genomic DNAs of Echinochloa crusgalli (E. crusgalli) into a rice line, R207. Although the phenotypes of this variant line are apparently different from its receptor, the molecular bases are not elucidated yet. Herein, we have systematically studied the differential proteomes from the tissues of E. crusgalli, R207, and RB207 in an attempt to find an explanation regarding the phenotypic changes of RB207. The 2-DE method was employed to separate the leaf and embryo proteins of these plants followed by protein identification with mass spectrometry. In the leaf, 953 +/- 15, 1084 +/- 11, and 1091 +/- 11 silver-stained spots were detected, whereas in the embryo, 986 +/- 3, 884 +/- 10, and 892 +/- 14 spots were found from E. crusgalli, R207, and RB207, respectively. In comparison to the 2-DE images of the two rice lines, which showed many similarities, the ones of the E. crusgalli and rice were found to be so different that they were incomparable. There were some differentially expressed 2-DE spots between the two rice cultivars, 72 in leaf and 53 in embryo, respectively. The results of protein identification suggested that, regardless of leaves or embryos, none of the E. crusgalli genes were encoded in the new rice cultivar, RB207. The fact that 60% of the differentially expressed spots between R207 and RB207, however, were verified as the proteins involved in metabolism and photosynthesis makes a rather convincing argument that the DNA fragments transferred from E. crusgalli to rice are responsible for exerting the unknown influence to the expression of rice genes.
17326805	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) is the causal agent of bacterial leaf blight, a serious disease of rice worldwide. A Tn5-based transposon randomly insertional mutant library was previously constructed. By screening mutants against susceptible rice cultivar IR24, four mutants were identified with reduced virulence on rice plants and were found to have Tn5 transposon inserted at an endo-1,4-beta-D glucanase (E.C. 3.2.1.4) gene eglXoB. In planta growth analysis indicated that multiplication of the mutants in rice leaves was greatly reduced comparing to the Xoo wild-type strain. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) showed that the expression of eglXoB was induced in planta. Genetic complementation of these mutants with a functional eglXoB gene restored both virulence and in planta growth, suggesting that the eglXoB gene was required for virulence. Ectopic expression of eglXoB in Escherichia coli demonstrated its endoglucanase activity. Otherwise, the growth of the mutants in synthetic medium containing cellulose as the sole sugar source was not affected. Data of this study suggested eglXoB gene is required for pathogenesis of rice bacterial blight disease.
17326825	Transposable element (TE)-related genes comprise a significant portion of the gene catalog of grasses, although their functions are insufficiently characterized. The recent availability of TE-related gene annotation from the complete genome sequence of rice (Oryza sativa) has created an opportunity to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the transcriptional activities of these potentially mobile elements and their related genes. We conducted a genome-wide survey of the transcriptional activity of TE-related genes associated with 15 developmental stages and stress conditions. This dataset was obtained using a microarray encompassing 2,191 unique TE-related rice genes, which were represented by oligonucleotide probes that were free from cross-hybridization. We found that TE-related genes exhibit much lower transcriptional activities than do non-TE-related genes, although representative transcripts were detected from all superfamilies of both type I and II TE-related genes. The strongest transcriptional activities were detected in TE-related genes from among the MULE and CACTA superfamilies. Phylogenetic analyses suggest that domesticated TE-related genes tend to form clades with active transcription. In addition, chromatin-level regulations through histone and DNA modifications, as well as enrichment of certain cis elements in the promoters, appear to contribute to the transcriptional activation of representative TE-related genes. Our findings reveal clear, albeit low, general transcription of TE-related genes. In combination with phylogenetic analysis, transcriptional analysis has the potential to lead to the identification of domesticated TEs with adapted host functions.
17326828	Chloroplast genomes evolve slowly and many primers for PCR amplification and analysis of chloroplast sequences can be used across a wide array of genera. In some cases 'universal' primers have been designed for the purpose of working across species boundaries. However, the essential information on these primer sequences is scattered throughout the literature. A database is presented here which assembles published primer information for chloroplast DNA. Additional primers were designed to fill gaps where little or no primer information could be found. Amplicons are either the genes themselves (typically useful in studies of sequence variation in higher-order phylogeny) or they are spacers, introns, and intergenic regions (for studies of phylogeographic patterns within and among species). The current list of 'generic' primers consists of more than 700 sequences. Wherever possible, we give the locations of the primers in the thirteen fully sequenced chloroplast genomes (Nicotiana tabacum, Atropa belladonna, Spinacia oleracea, Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, Oryza sativa, Pinus thunbergii, Marchantia polymorpha, Zea mays, Oenothera elata, Acorus calamus, Eucalyptus globulus, Medicago trunculata). The database described here is designed to serve as a resource for researchers who are venturing into the study of poorly described chloroplast genomes, whether for large- or small-scale DNA sequencing projects, to study molecular variation or to investigate chloroplast evolution.
17327258	OsMUS81, a rice homolog of the yeast MUS81 endonuclease gene, produced two alternative transcripts, OsMUS81alpha and OsMUS81beta. OsMus81alpha contained a Helix-hairpin-Helix (HhH) motif at the N- and C-termini, and a conserved XPF-like motif in the center, while the OsMus81beta isoform lacked the second HhH motif by alternative splicing of a cryptic intron generating a truncated protein. The two transcripts were induced after DNA-damaging treatments such as high intensity light, UV-C and gamma-radiation. The yeast two-hybrid assay detected a strong interaction between OsMus81 and OsRad54 recombinational repair proteins. These findings suggest that OsMus81 functions in maintaining genome integrity through homologous recombination.
1732778
17330511	Rice seed endosperm has two types of protein bodies (PB). Type I protein body (PB-I) accumulates prolamin and is hard to digest, while type II protein body (PB-II) mainly consists of glutelin, an easily digestible protein. A simple method to process rice protein and improve its digestibility was tested from the viewpoint of its application to food manufacturing. Rice protein prepared by alkaline extraction followed by neutralization sedimentation (AE-RP) was compared with that prepared by starch degradation by alpha-amylase (SD-RP). The crude protein content of AE-RP and SD-RP was 84.7% and 78.2%, respectively. There were no major differences in protein composition among AE-RP, SD-RP and rice flour by SDS-PAGE, except 16 kDa polypeptide. With respect to amino acids, all the groups showed quite similar compositions, although cysteine and methionine were lower in AE-RP. In an in vitro digestion study with pepsin and pancreatin, both the SDS-PAGE analysis of protein pattern and the crude protein content of undigested residue clearly demonstrated that AE-RP has a higher digestibility than SD-RP. To find the cause of the difference in digestibility, the structural property of protein bodies by two production methods was compared using electron microscopy. PB-II of AE-RP was transformed into small, amorphous granules, while that of SD-RP was still kept partial protein body structures. PB-I of AE-RP kept its protein body structure, but produced double layers. From the finding that glutelin-gold was detected by immunochemistry not only in small, amorphous granules but also in PB-I, mainly the cortex layer, in AE-RP, it became clear that PB-I was swollen and fragile as a result of alkali treatment. These results strongly indicate that the improvement in digestibility of AE-RP is a result of the structural change of PB-I and -II caused by alkaline extraction.
17331714	This work had the dual objective of selecting a substrate for rapid mycelial growth of Scytalidium thermophilum and then comparing the growth and production of a brown variety of Agaricus bisporus on substrate non-colonized and colonized with S. thermophilum. Mycelial growth of S. thermophilum at 45 degrees C was significantly greater on potato dextrose yeast extract agar (0.58 mm/h) as compared to malt extract glucose agar (0.24 mm/h) and yeast extract glucose agar (0.44 mm/h). On cereal grain, S. thermophilum grew significantly faster on rice (0.31 mm/h) compared to sorghum (0.22 mm/h) and millet (0.18 mm/h). It also grew faster on Pangola grass (0.49 mm/h) compared to corncobs (0.30 mm/h) and sawdust (0.18 mm/h). Colonization of Pangola grass with S. thermophilum was influenced by the addition of calcium salts in the form of gypsum, hydrated lime and ground limestone. For production of A. bisporus, biological efficiency (BE) on pasteurized Pangola grass pre-colonized by S. thermophilum for 4 days at 45 degrees C was more than twice (26.4%) that on grass non-colonized by S. thermophilum (11.0%). The addition of 2% hydrated lime to Pangola grass prior to colonization by S. thermophilum resulted in an additional doubling of BE of mushroom production (48.1%). These results show the possibility of developing a non-composted substrate method for producing A. bisporus without autoclaving the substrate.
17331895	Life science and biotechnology have become a top priority in research and development in many countries as the world marches into the new century. China as a developing country with a 1.3 billion population and booming economy is actively meeting the challenge of a new era in this area of research. Owing to support from the government and the scientific community, and reform to improve the infrastructure, recent years have witnessed a rapid progress in some important fields of life science and biotechnology in China, such as genomics and protein sciences, neuroscience, systematics, super-hybrid rice research, stem cell and cloning technology, gene therapy and drug/vaccine development. The planned expansion and development of innovation in related sectors and the area of bioethics are described and discussed.
17331896	In May 2000, the Beijing Institute of Genomics formally announced the launch of a comprehensive crop genome research project on rice genomics, the Chinese Superhybrid Rice Genome Project. SRGP is not simply a sequencing project targeted to a single rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome, but a full-swing research effort with an ultimate goal of providing inclusive basic genomic information and molecular tools not only to understand biology of the rice, both as an important crop species and a model organism of cereals, but also to focus on a popular superhybrid rice landrace, LYP9. We have completed the first phase of SRGP and provide the rice research community with a finished genome sequence of an indica variety, 93-11 (the paternal cultivar of LYP9), together with ample data on subspecific (between subspecies) polymorphisms, transcriptomes and proteomes, useful for within-species comparative studies. In the second phase, we have acquired the genome sequence of the maternal cultivar, PA64S, together with the detailed catalogues of genes uniquely expressed in the parental cultivars and the hybrid as well as allele-specific markers that distinguish parental alleles. Although SRGP in China is not an open-ended research programme, it has been designed to pave a way for future plant genomics research and application, such as to interrogate fundamentals of plant biology, including genome duplication, polyploidy and hybrid vigour, as well as to provide genetic tools for crop breeding and to carry along a social burden-leading a fight against the world's hunger. It began with genomics, the newly developed and industry-scale research field, and from the world's most populous country. In this review, we summarize our scientific goals and noteworthy discoveries that exploit new territories of systematic investigations on basic and applied biology of rice and other major cereal crops.
17332417	This study investigated whether and how polyamines (PAs) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants are involved in drought resistance. Six rice cultivars differing in drought resistance were used and subjected to well-watered and water-stressed treatments during their reproductive period. The activities of arginine decarboxylase, S-adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase, and spermidine (Spd) synthase in the leaves were significantly enhanced by water stress, in good agreement with the increase in putrescine (Put), Spd, and spermine (Spm) contents there. The increased contents of free Spd, free Spm, and insoluble-conjugated Put under water stress were significantly correlated with the yield maintenance ratio (the ratio of grain yield under water-stressed conditions to grain yield under well-watered conditions) of the cultivars. Free Put at an early stage of water stress positively, whereas at a later stage negatively, correlated with the yield maintenance ratio. No significant differences were observed in soluble-conjugated PAs and insoluble-conjugated Spd and Spm among the cultivars. Free PAs showed significant accumulation when leaf water potentials reached -0.51 MPa to -0.62 MPa for the drought-resistant cultivars and -0.70 MPa to -0.84 MPa for the drought-susceptible ones. The results suggest that rice has a large capacity to enhance PA biosynthesis in leaves in response to water stress. The role of PAs in plant defence to water stress varies with PA forms and stress stages. In adapting to drought it would be good for rice to have the physiological traits of higher levels of free Spd/free Spm and insoluble-conjugated Put, as well as early accumulation of free PAs, under water stress.
17333504	To characterize Fe homeostasis during the early stages of seed germination, a microarray analysis was performed. mRNAs extracted from fully mature seeds or seeds harvested 1-3 days after sowing were hybridized to a rice microarray containing approximately 22,000 cDNA oligo probes. Many Fe deficiency-inducible genes were strongly expressed throughout early seed germination. These results suggest that the demand for Fe is extremely high during germination. Under Fe-deficient conditions, rice produces and secretes a metal-cation chelator called deoxymugineic acid (DMA) to acquire Fe from the soil. In addition, DMA and its intermediate nicotianamine (NA) are thought to be involved in long distance Fe transport in rice. Using promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) analysis, we investigated the expression patterns during seed germination of the Fe deficiency-inducible genes OsNAS1, OsNAS2, OsNAS3, OsNAAT1, and OsDMAS1, which encode enzymes that participate in the biosynthesis of DMA, and the transporter genes OsYSL2 and OsIRT1, which are involved in Fe transport. All of these genes were expressed in germinating seeds prior to protrusion of the radicle. These results suggest that DMA and NA are produced and involved in Fe transport during germination.
17334570	Dietary factors associated with oral cancer were investigated in a case-control hospital-based study in the city of So Paulo, Brazil, from 1998 to 2002. A total of 835 subjects, 366 with histologically confirmed incident cases of oral-cavity or pharyngeal cancer and 469 controls participated in the study. Dietary data were collected with a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) were obtained from unconditional logistic regression, adjusted for potential confounders. Inverse associations with risk of oral cancer were found for the highest intake of beans, OR = 0.37 (95%CI: 0.22-0.64), raw vegetables, OR = 0.51 (95%CI: 0.29-0.93) and the intermediate tertile of rice and pasta intake, OR = 0.56 (95%CI: 0.38-0.83). Positive associations were observed for the highest intake of eggs, OR = 1.84 (95%CI: 1.23-2.75), potatoes, OR = 2.22 (95%CI: 1.53-3.25), and milk, OR= 1.80 (95%CI: 1.09-2.98). Some traditional Brazilian foods like rice and beans emerged as protective factors against oral cancer, independently of other risk factors.
17334827	Acetolactate synthase (ALS) is the first common enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway of branched-chain amino acids. Mutations of specific amino acids in ALS have been known to confer resistance to ALS-inhibiting herbicides such as sulfonylureas and pyrimidinyl carboxy (PC) herbicides. However, mutations conferring exclusive resistance to PC have not yet been reported to date. We selected PC resistant rice calli, which were derived from anther culture, using one of the PCs, bispyribac-sodium (BS), as a selection agent. Two lines of BS-resistant plants carrying a novel mutation, the 95th Glycine to Alanine (G95A), in ALS were obtained. In vitro ALS activity assay indicated that the recombinant protein of G95A-mutated ALS (ALS-G95A) conferred highly specific resistance to PC herbicides. In order to determine if the ALS-G95A gene could be used as a selection marker for rice transformation, the ALS-G95A gene was connected to ubiquitin promoter and introduced into rice. PC resistant plants containing integrated ALS-G95A gene were obtained after selection with BS as a selection agent. In conclusion, novel G95A mutated ALS gene confers highly specific resistant to PC-herbicides and can be used as a selection marker.
17334856	A dual approach consisting of cultivation and molecular retrieval of actinobacterial 16S rRNA genes was used to characterize the diversity of actinobacterial community inhabiting interior of rice stems and roots. Streptomyces is the most frequently isolated genus from rice stems and roots. Forty-five clones chosen randomly among 250 clones in the 16S rRNA gene clone library from roots were affiliated with nine genera of actinobacteria and uncultured actinobacteria (Mycobacterium, Streptomyces, Micromonospora, Actinoplanes, Frankia, Dactylosporangium, Amycolatopsis, Corynebacterium, Rhodococcus, and uncultured actinobacterium). However, 33 clones from stems were affiliated with four genera and uncultured actinobacteria (Streptomyces, Mycobacterium, Nocardiodies, Janibacter, uncultured earthworm cast bacterium, uncultured earthworm intestine bacterium, and uncultured actinobacterium). Species similar to S. cyaneus were isolated from surface-sterilized roots and stems of rice and detected inside rice roots by culture-independent methods. Species similar to S. caviscabies, S. scabies, and S. turgidiscabies were simultaneously detected from the interior of rice stems by the culture-dependent and culture-independent methods. S. galilaeus was detected from the interior of rice stems and roots. These results indicated that some actinobacterial populations in rice stems were correlated with those in roots.
17335506	* Our view of genes involved in rice disease resistance is far from complete. Here we used a gene-for-gene relationship corresponding to the interaction between atypical avirulence gene ACE1 from Magnaporthe grisea and rice resistance gene Pi33 to better characterize early rice defence responses induced during such interaction. * Rice genes differentially expressed during early stages of Pi33/ACE1 interaction were identified using DNA chip-based differential hybridization and QRT-PCR survey of the expression of known and putative regulators of disease resistance. * One hundred genes were identified as induced or repressed during rice defence response, 80% of which are novel, including resistance gene analogues. Pi33/ACE1 interaction also triggered the up-regulation of classical PR defence genes and a massive down-regulation of chlorophyll a/b binding genes. Most of these differentially expressed genes were induced or repressed earlier in Pi33/ACE1 interaction than in the gene-for-gene interaction involving Nipponbare resistant cultivar. * Besides demonstrating that an ACE1/Pi33 interaction induced classical and specific expression patterns, this work provides a list of new genes likely to be involved in rice disease resistance.
17336000	The functional response, i.e. the change in per capita food intake rate per time unit with changed food availability, is a widely used tool for understanding the ecology and behaviour of animals. However, waterfowl remain poorly explored in this context. In an aviary experiment we derived a functional response curve for teal (Anas crecca) foraging on rice (Oryza sativa) seeds. We found a linear relationship between intake rate and seed density, as expected for a filter-feeder. At high seed densities we found a threshold, above which intake rate still increased linearly but with a lower slope, possibly reflecting a switch from filter-feeding to a scooping foraging mode. The present study shows that food intake rate in teal is linearly related to food availability within the range of naturally occurring seed densities, a finding with major implications for management and conservation of wetland habitats.
17336057	The effect of wood ash, sawdust, ground cocoa husk, spent grain and rice bran upon root development, ash content, pod yield and nutrient status and soil fertility for okra (Abelmoschus esculentum L NHAe 47 variety) was studied. The five organic fertilizer treatments were compared to chemical fertilizer (400kg/ha/crop NPK 15-15-15) and unfertilized controls in four field experiments replicated four times in a randomized complete block design. The results showed that the application of 6tha(-1) of plant residues increased (P<0.05) the soil N, P, K, Ca, Mg, pH, and SOM; pod N, P, K, Ca, Mg and ash; root length; and pod yield of okra in all four experiments relative to the control treatment. For instance, spent grain treatment increased the okra pod yield by 99%, 33%, 50%, 49%, 65% and 67% compared to control, NPK, wood ash, cocoa husk, rice bran and sawdust treatments respectively. In the stepwise regression, out of the total R(2) value of 0.83 for the soil nutrients to the pod yield of okra; soil N accounted for 50% of the soil fertility improvement and yield of okra. Spent grain, wood ash and cocoa husk were the most effective in improving okra pod weight, pod nutrients, ash content, root length and soil fertility whereas the rice bran and sawdust were the least effective. This was because the spent grain, wood ash and cocoa husk had lower C/N ratio and higher nutrient composition than rice bran and sawdust, thus, the former enhanced an increase in pod nutrients, composition for better human dietary intake, increased the root length, pod weight of okra and improved soil fertility and plant nutrition crop. The significance of the increases in okra mineral nutrition concentration by plant residues is that consumers will consume more of these minerals in their meals and monetarily spend less for purchasing vitamins and mineral supplement drugs to meet health requirements. In addition, the increase in plant nutrition and soil fertility would help to reduce the high cost of buying synthetic inorganic fertilizers and maintain the long term productivity of soils for sustainable cultivation of okra.
17336300	Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) play an essential role in plant Ca(2+)-mediated signal transduction. Twenty-nine CDPK genes have been identified in the rice genome through a complete search of genome and full-length cDNA databases. Eight of them were reported previously to be inducible by different stress stimuli. Sequence comparison revealed that all 29 CDPK genes (OsCPK1-29) contain multiple stress-responsive cis-elements in the promoter region (1kb) upstream of genes. Analysis of the information extracted from the Rice Expression Database indicates that 11 of the CDPK genes are regulated by chilling temperature, dehydration, salt, rice blast infection and chitin treatment. RT-PCR and RNA gel blot hybridization were performed in this study to detect the expression 19 of the CDPK genes. Twelve CDPK genes exhibited cultivar- and tissue-specific expression; four CDPK genes (OsCPK6, OsCPK13, OsCPK17 and OsCPK25) were induced by chilling temperature, dehydration and salt stresses in the rice seedlings. While OsCPK13 (OsCDPK7) was already known to be inducible by chilling temperature and high salt, this is the first report that the other three genes are stress-regulated. OsCPK6 and OsCPK25 are up-regulated by dehydration and heat shock, respectively, while OsCPK17 is down-regulated by chilling temperature, dehydration and high salt stresses. Based on this evidence, rice CDPK genes may be important components in the signal transduction pathways for stress responses. Findings from this research are important for further dissecting mechanisms of stress response and functions of CDPK genes in rice.
17336324	The rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis, is divided into at least two ecotypes in Japan, the Shonai ecotype (SN) which is distributed in the northern part of Japan, and the Saigoku ecotype (SG) which is distributed in the southwestern region. Cold hardiness is positively correlated with the level of glycerol in both ecotypes. To investigate whether ecological distribution affects glycerol accumulation and cold hardiness development in these two ecotypes, overwintering larvae of the SN and SG ecotypes were concurrently exposed to the Shonai district. Obvious differences in the progress of glycerol accumulation and cold hardiness development in SN and SG larvae were found in early winter in the Shonai district. The levels of glycerol content and cold hardiness were low in October and high in January in both ecotypes, but those levels were different within this period (November and December) between ecotypes; the levels in SN larvae quickly reached their maximum, whereas, in SG larvae levels increased slowly. Under controlled conditions, the effect of the period of acclimation at 10 degrees C and subsequent low-temperature (5 degrees C) exposure on glycerol accumulation was investigated. These results indicated that glycerol accumulation in SN was stimulated by the progression of diapause termination, whereas a higher cumulative effect on glycerol production in SG was found when diapause was in a deep state.
17336834	Sensitization to foods varies in different countries reflecting a possible interaction of genetic factors, cultural and dietary habits. Rice is a major food consumed world wide and needs evaluation for IgE mediated reactions. The present study was carried out to identify rice allergy in patients of rhinitis and asthma and identify the allergenic proteins in raw and cooked rice. Of 1200 patients screened using standard questionnaire, 165 presented with history of rice allergy. Of these, 20 (12.1%) patients demonstrated marked positive skin prick test (SPT) and 13 showed significantly raised specific IgE to rice compared to normal controls. Double blind placebo controlled food challenge (DBPCFC) confirmed rice allergy in 6/10 patients. Immunoblot with hypersensitive individual patients' sera showed 14-16, 33, 56 and 60 kDa proteins as major IgE-binding components in rice. Boiled rice retained four IgE reactive proteins of 16, 23, 33 and 53 kDa. In summary, IgE-mediated rice allergy affects 0.8% [(0.42-1.58) at 95% CI] of asthma and rhinitis cases. The subjects with severe SPT reactions (4 mm or above) and specific IgE, 6.9 ng/ml to rice demonstrated positive blinded food challenge with clinical symptoms.
17337526	Various abilities to synthesize and accumulate glycine betaine (GB) are crucial for angiosperms to develop salt and drought tolerances. In higher plants, GB is synthesized by a two-step oxidation of choline via an intermediate form of betaine aldehyde, and catalyzed by choline monooxygenase and betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH). In this study, numerous truncated and/or recombinant transcripts of two BADH homologs resulting from an unusual posttranscriptional processing were detected in rice (Oryza sativa) and other cereal crops, including maize (Zea mays), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare). The observed events took place at the 5' exonic region, and led to the insertion of exogenous gene sequences and a variety of deletions that resulted in the removal of translation initiation codon, loss of functional domain, and frame-shifts with premature termination by introducing stop codon. By contrast, the BADH transcripts from dicotyledonous species, such as spinach (Spinacia oleracea), Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), and tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), had correctly processed mRNA. This suggests the differentiation of posttranscriptional processing in BADH genes potentially contributes to the variation of GB-synthesizing capacities among various plant species. In addition, comprehensive sequence analyses demonstrated that extensive sequence similarities (named as short, direct repeats) are of paired presence surrounding the junctions of both the deletion and/or insertion sites in the unusual BADH transcripts. The site selection for the deletion/insertion was altered in response to the stress conditions. This indicates that the sequence elements of short, direct repeats are probably required for the recognition of the deletion/insertion sites.
17337752	All plant organs are produced by meristems, groups of stem cells located in the tips of roots and shoots. Indeterminate meristems make an indefinite number of organs, whereas determinate meristems are consumed after making a specific number of organs. Maize is an ideal system to study the genetic control of meristem fate because of the contribution from determinate and indeterminate meristems to the overall inflorescence. Here, the latest work on meristem maintenance and organ specification in maize is reviewed. Genetic networks, such as the CLAVATA components of meristem maintenance and the ABC programme of flower development, are conserved between grasses and eudicots. Maize and rice appear to have conserved mechanisms of meristem maintenance and organ identity. Other pathways, such as sex determination, are likely to be found only in maize with its separate male and female flowers. A rich genetic history has resulted in a large collection of maize mutants. The advent of genomic tools and synteny across the grasses now permits the isolation of the genes behind inflorescence architecture and the ability to compare function across the Angiosperms.
17339225	The FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) gene plays a central role in integrating flowering signals in Arabidopsis because its expression is regulated antagonistically by the photoperiod and vernalization pathways. FT belongs to a family of six genes characterized by a phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein (PEBP) domain. In rice (Oryza sativa), 19 PEBP genes were previously described, 13 of which are FT-like genes. Five FT-like genes were found in barley (Hordeum vulgare). HvFT1, HvFT2, HvFT3, and HvFT4 were highly homologous to OsFTL2 (the Hd3a QTL), OsFTL1, OsFTL10, and OsFTL12, respectively, and this relationship was supported by comparative mapping. No rice equivalent was found for HvFT5. HvFT1 was highly expressed under long-day (inductive) conditions at the time of the morphological switch of the shoot apex from vegetative to reproductive growth. HvFT2 and HvFT4 were expressed later in development. HvFT1 was therefore identified as the main barley FT-like gene involved in the switch to flowering. Mapping of HvFT genes suggests that they provide important sources of flowering-time variation in barley. HvFTI was a candidate for VRN-H3, a dominant mutation giving precocious flowering, while HvFT3 was a candidate for Ppd-H2, a major QTL affecting flowering time in short days.
17339227	A comparative physical map of the AA genome (Oryza sativa) and the BB genome (O. punctata) was constructed by aligning a physical map of O. punctata, deduced from 63,942 BAC end sequences (BESs) and 34,224 fingerprints, onto the O. sativa genome sequence. The level of conservation of each chromosome between the two species was determined by calculating a ratio of BES alignments. The alignment result suggests more divergence of intergenic and repeat regions in comparison to gene-rich regions. Further, this characteristic enabled localization of heterochromatic and euchromatic regions for each chromosome of both species. The alignment identified 16 locations containing expansions, contractions, inversions, and transpositions. By aligning 40% of the punctata BES on the map, 87% of the punctata FPC map covered 98% of the O. sativa genome sequence. The genome size of O. punctata was estimated to be 8% larger than that of O. sativa with individual chromosome differences of 1.5-16.5%. The sum of expansions and contractions observed in regions >500 kb were similar, suggesting that most of the contractions/expansions contributing to the genome size difference between the two species are small, thus preserving the macro-collinearity between these species, which diverged approximately 2 million years ago.
17339651	Methylthioadenosine (MTA) is released as a by-product of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet)-dependent reactions central to ethylene, polyamine, or phytosiderophore biosynthesis. MTA is hydrolysed by methylthioadenosine nucleosidase (MTN; EC 3.2.2.16) into adenine and methylthioribose which is processed through the methionine (Met) cycle to produce a new molecule of AdoMet. In deepwater rice, submergence enhances ethylene biosynthesis, and ethylene in turn influences the methionine cycle through positive feedback regulation of the acireductone dioxygenase gene OsARD1. In rice, MTN is encoded by a single gene designated OsMTN. Recombinant OsMTN enzyme had a KM for MTA of 2.1 mM and accepted a wide array of 5' substitutions of the substrate. OsMTN also metabolized S-adenosylhomocysteine (AdoHcy) with 15.9% the rate of MTA. OsMTN transcripts and OsMTN-specific activity increased slowly and in parallel upon submergence, indicating that regulation occurred mainly at the transcriptional level. Neither ethylene, MTA, nor Met regulated OsMTN expression. Analysis of steady-state metabolite levels showed that MTN activity was sufficiently high to prevent Met and AdoMet depletion during long-term ethylene biosynthesis.
17340588	Callus differentiation is a key developmental process for rice regeneration from cells. To better understand this complex developmental process, we used a 2-D gel electrophoresis approach to explore the temporal patterns of protein expression at the early stages during rice callus differentiation. This global analysis detected 60 known proteins out of 79 gel spots identified by MS/MS, of which many had been shown to play a role in plant development. Two new proteins were revealed to be associated with the callus differentiation and have been confirmed by Western blot analysis. The results of proteomics experiments were further verified at the mRNA level using microarray and real-time PCR. Comparison of the differentially expressed protein levels with their corresponding mRNA levels at the two callus early differentiation stages showed a good correlation between them, indicating that a substantial proportion of protein changes is a consequence of changed mRNA levels, rather than post-transcriptional effects during callus differentiation, though microarray revealed more expression changes on RNA levels. These findings may contribute to further understanding of the mechanisms that lead to callus differentiation of rice and other plants as well.
17341818	The genome sequence of Aspergillus oryzae, a fungus used in the production of the traditional Japanese fermentation foods sake (rice wine), shoyu (soy sauce), and miso (soybean paste), has revealed prominent features in its gene composition as compared to those of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Neurospora crassa. The A. oryzae genome is extremely enriched with genes involved in biomass degradation, primary and secondary metabolism, transcriptional regulation, and cell signaling. Even compared to the related species A. nidulans and A. fumigatus, an abundance of metabolic genes is apparent, with acquisition of more than 6 Mb of sequence in the A. oryzae lineage, interspersed throughout the A. oryzae genome. Besides the various already established merits of A. oryzae for industrial uses, the genome sequence and the abundance of metabolic genes should significantly accelerate the biotechnological use of A. oryzae in industry.
17341819	The effect and mechanism of two types of rice protein, one from regular japonica rice Koshihikari and another from rice cultivar Shunyo, with low glutelin and high prolamin content, on cholesterol and triglyceride metabolism were compared by feeding casein and soy protein to male Wistar strain rats 7 and 20 weeks old ad libitum for 2 weeks. The results in adult rats clearly indicated that both rice proteins had cholesterol-lowering effects in the plasma and the liver, comparable to soy protein, and the effects were accompanied with TG-lowering effects in the liver. Similar effects were also observed in growing rats when the diets were supplemented with cholesterol. The mechanism of the cholesterol-lowering effects by these rice proteins cannot be explained solely by fecal steroid excretion, but the results indicate that not only regular rice protein but also Shunyo rice protein possesses improving effects on lipid metabolism, especially in the adult period.
17342331	The preventive effects of the dietary administration of brown rice and rice bran fermented with Aspergillus oryzae (FBRA) on oral carcinogenesis induced by 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4-NQO) were investigated in male F344 rats. At 7 weeks of age, the animals were given 20 ppm 4-NQO in their drinking water for 8 weeks to induce tongue neoplasms. Groups of rats were fed diets containing 5 or 10% FBRA during the initiation or postinitiation phases of the 4-NQO-induced oral carcinogenesis. The other groups consisted of rats fed 10% FBRA or untreated rats. At the termination of the study (week 32), the incidences, multiplicities of tongue lesions (pre-neoplasms and neoplasms) and the cell proliferation activity estimated by the 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeling index were compared among the groups. Feeding of 5% FBRA during the initiation phase significantly decreased the incidence (68.2 vs 36.8%; p<0.05) and multiplicity (1.05+/-0.84 vs 0.37+/-0.50; p<0.005) of the tongue carcinoma. When feeding of 10% FBRA occurred after the 4-NQO exposure, the multiplicity of tongue carcinoma was also reduced (1.05+/-0.84 vs 0.52+/-0.60; p<0.05). In addition, the dietary administration of FBRA at both doses significantly decreased the BrdU-labeling index in the oral squamous epithelium (p<0.05). Although a dose-dependent response was not observed, FBRA is effective in suppressing the development of 4-NQO-induced oral carcinogenesis by its concurrent exposure to the carcinogen. The inhibitory effect could be related to the suppression of the hyperproliferation of cells in the tongue epithelium and the radical scavenging activity of FBRA.
17344053	Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is a DNA sliding clamp interacting with multiple partners in DNA transactions such as DNA replication/repair and recombination as well as chromatin assembly. We previously detected and purified by chromatographic procedures a 31 kDa PCNA from cultured wheat cells (Triticum monococcum L). Here we report the complete sequence of the wheat 31 kDa PCNA showing a very high aminoacid identity with its plant counterparts (maize and rice). This recombinant PCNA has been used as a bait in an affinity chromatography procedure, in order to capture PCNA interacting proteins. We detected by liquid chromatography, tandem mass spectrometry and search in plant protein databases, several specific bands from wheat cell lysates in fractions bound to wheat PCNA-affinity column. One of them is the wheat elongation factor 1A. Its putative regulatory role in DNA replication/repair is discussed.
17346352	Plant promoter architecture is important for understanding regulation and evolution of the promoters, but our current knowledge about plant promoter structure, especially with respect to the core promoter, is insufficient. Several promoter elements including TATA box, and several types of transcriptional regulatory elements have been found to show local distribution within promoters, and this feature has been successfully utilized for extraction of promoter constituents from human genome. LDSS (Local Distribution of Short Sequences) profiles of short sequences along the plant promoter have been analyzed in silico, and hundreds of hexamer and octamer sequences have been identified as having localized distributions within promoters of Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. Based on their localization patterns, the identified sequences could be classified into three groups, pyrimidine patch (Y Patch), TATA box, and REG (Regulatory Element Group). Sequences of the TATA box group are consistent with the ones reported in previous studies. The REG group includes more than 200 sequences, and half of them correspond to known cis-elements. The other REG subgroups, together with about a hundred uncategorized sequences, are suggested to be novel cis-regulatory elements. Comparison of LDSS-positive sequences between Arabidopsis and rice has revealed moderate conservation of elements and common promoter architecture. In addition, a dimer motif named the YR Rule (C/T A/G) has been identified at the transcription start site (-1/+1). This rule also fits both Arabidopsis and rice promoters. LDSS was successfully applied to plant genomes and hundreds of putative promoter elements have been extracted as LDSS-positive octamers. Identified promoter architecture of monocot and dicot are well conserved, but there are moderate variations in the utilized sequences.
17346792	Although human exposure to arsenic is thought to be caused mainly through arsenic-contaminated underground drinking water, the use of this water for irrigation enhances the possibility of arsenic uptake into crop plants. Rice is the staple food grain in Bangladesh. Arsenic content in straw, grain and husk of rice is especially important since paddy fields are extensively irrigated with underground water having high level of arsenic concentration. However, straw and husk are widely used as cattle feed. Arsenic concentration in rice grain was 0.5+/-0.02 mg kg(-1) with the highest concentrations being in grains grown on soil treated with 40 mg As kg(-1) soil. With the average rice consumption between 400 and 650 g/day by typical adults in the arsenic-affected areas of Bangladesh, the intake of arsenic through rice stood at 0.20-0.35 mg/day. With a daily consumption of 4 L drinking water, arsenic intake through drinking water stands at 0.2mg/day. Moreover, when the rice plant was grown in 60 mg of As kg(-1) soil, arsenic concentrations in rice straw were 20.6+/-0.52 at panicle initiation stage and 23.7+/-0.44 at maturity stage, whereas it was 1.6+/-0.20 mg kg(-1) in husk. Cattle drink a considerable amount of water. So alike human beings, arsenic gets deposited into cattle body through rice straw and husk as well as from drinking water which in turn finds a route into the human body. Arsenic intake in human body from rice and cattle could be potentially important and it exists in addition to that from drinking water. Therefore, a hypothesis has been put forward elucidating the possible food chain pathways through which arsenic may enter into human body.
17347106	Rice functional genomics is a scientific approach that seeks to identify and define the function of rice genes, and uncover when and how genes work together to produce phenotypic traits. Rapid progress in rice genome sequencing has facilitated research in rice functional genomics in China. The Ministry of Science and Technology of China has funded two major rice functional genomics research programmes for building up the infrastructures of the functional genomics study such as developing rice functional genomics tools and resources. The programmes were also aimed at cloning and functional analyses of a number of genes controlling important agronomic traits from rice. National and international collaborations on rice functional genomics study are accelerating rice gene discovery and application.
17347162	The relationship between ethylene production and both seed dormancy and germination was investigated using red rice (weedy rice) as a model species. Both fully dormant and after-ripened (non-dormant) naked caryopses were incubated with or without inhibitors of ethylene synthesis [aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG)] and perception [silver thiosulfate (STS)], or in the presence of the natural ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC). The kinetics of ethylene emissions were measured with a sensitive laser-photoacoustic system. Dormant red rice caryopses did not produce ethylene. In non-dormant caryopses, ethylene evolution never preceded the first visible stage of germination (pericarp splitting), and ethylene inhibitors completely blocked ethylene production, but not pericarp splitting. Accordingly, endogenous ACC appeared to be lacking before pericarp splitting. However, early seedling growth (radicle or coleoptile attaining the length of 1 mm) followed ethylene evolution and was delayed by the inhibitors. Wounding the dormant caryopses induced them to germinate and produce ethylene, but their germination was slow and pericarp splitting could be speeded up by ethylene. The findings suggest that, in red rice, endogenous ethylene stimulates the growth of the nascent seedling, but does not affect seed dormancy or germination inception. Correspondingly, this phytohormone does not play a role in the dormancy breakage induced by wounding, but accelerates germination after such breakage has occurred.
17347829	Rice plants are highly susceptible to Fe-deficiency. Under nutrient deprivation, plant cells undergo extensive metabolic changes for their continued survival. To provide further insight into the pathways induced during Fe-deficiency, rice seedlings were grown for 3, 6 and 9 days in the presence or absence of Fe. Using RDA (Representational Difference Analysis), sequences of 32 induced genes in rice shoots under Fe-deficiency were identified. About 30% of the sequences found have been previously reported as responsive to other abiotic and even biotic stresses. However, this is the first report that indicates their relation to Fe deprivation. Differential expression of selected genes was confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis. The identification of classical senescence-related sequences, such as lipase EC 3.1.1.-, ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme EC 6.3.2.19, beta-Glucosidase EC 3.2.1.21 and cysteine synthase EC 2.5.1.47, besides the higher accumulation of total soluble sugars prior to the decrease of total chlorophyll content in Fe-deficient leaves, indicate that sugar accumulation may be one of the factors leading to premature leaf senescence induced by Fe-deficiency.
17348135	This study was carried out to evaluate entomopathogenic fungi isolates as microbial control agents ofthe lesser mealworm, Alphitobius diaperinus (Panzer). Larvae and adults were inoculated with conidial suspension of 99 isolates of Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. and Metarhizium anisopliae (Metsch.) Sorok. (10(5) to 10(9) conidia/ml). Vegetative growth on culture media and sporulation on culture media, cooked rice and lesser mealworm cadavers were also evaluated. Isolates of B. bassiana were more effective than the M. anisopliae isolates and larvae were more susceptible than adults. The isolates UNIOESTE 04 and UNIOESTE 02 were originally obtained from adults of the lesser mealworm and were the most efficient isolates. In addition, UNIOESTE 04 showed high level of sporulation on different culture media and is considered a potential useful tool to lesser mealworm control.
17348241	Studies suggest the importance of serum total and specific IgE in clinical evaluation of allergic manifestations. Such studies are lacking in Indian subcontinent, though a large population suffer from bronchial asthma. Here relevance of serum total and specific IgE was investigated in asthmatics with food sensitization. A total of 216 consecutive patients (mean age 31.9 years, S.D. 11.8) were screened by various diagnostic testing. Out of 216 patients, 172 were with elevated serum total IgE (201 to > 800 IU/ml). Rice elicited marked positive skin prick test reactions (SPT) in 24 (11%) asthma patients followed by black gram 22 (10%), lentil 21 (9.7%) and citrus fruits 20 (9.2%). Serum total IgE and specific IgE showed significant correlation, p = 0.005 and p = 0.001, respectively, with positive skin tests. Blinded food challenges (DBPCFC) with rice and or black gram confirmed food sensitization in 28-37% of cases. In summary, serum total IgE of 265 IU/ml or more with marked positive SPT (4 mm or more) can serve as marker for atopy and food sensitization. Specific IgE, three times of normal controls correlates well with positive DBPCFC and offers evidence for the cases of food allergy.
17348675	Two varieties of hulled rice artificially contaminated with aflatoxins at five different levels were processed by dehulling and polishing methods. Contamination levels ranged from 356 to 818 microg/kg and from 244 to 645 microg/kg in medium and long grain rice, respectively. After physical processing, four different milled fractions were obtained (hull, bran, polished broken grains, and polished whole kernels). The fractions were analyzed for total aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, and G2) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Aflatoxins were removed in fractions intended for human consumption (polished broken grains and polished whole kernels) at rates up to 97%. They were found throughout all fractions, but higher contamination levels were detected in hull and bran fractions than in unprocessed kernels and polished fractions. Regardless of the rice variety, the aflatoxin distribution pattern depended on the initial contamination level and type of milled fraction but not on the duration of polishing.
17349060	To interpret microarray experiments, several ontological analysis tools have been developed. However, current tools are limited to specific organisms. We developed a bioinformatics system to assign the probe set sequences of any organism to a hierarchical functional classification modelled on KEGG ontology. The GeneBins database currently supports the functional classification of expression data from four Affymetrix arrays; Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Glycine max and Medicago truncatula. An online analysis tool to identify relevant functions is also provided. GeneBins provides resources to interpret gene expression results from microarray experiments. It is available at http://bioinfoserver.rsbs.anu.edu.au/utils/GeneBins/
17349732	The use of low-cost adsorbents was investigated as a replacement for current costly methods of removing metals from aqueous solution. Removal of copper (II) from aqueous solution by different adsorbents such as shells of lentil (LS), wheat (WS), and rice (RS) was investigated. The equilibrium adsorption level was determined as a function of the solution pH, temperature, contact time, initial adsorbate concentration and adsorbent doses. Adsorption isotherms of Cu (II) on adsorbents were determined and correlated with common isotherm equations such as Langmuir and Freundlich models. The maximum adsorption capacities for Cu (II) on LS, WS and RS adsorbents at 293, 313 and 333 K temperature were found to be 8.977, 9.510, and 9.588; 7.391, 16.077, and 17.422; 1.854, 2.314, and 2.954 mg g(-1), respectively. The thermodynamic parameters such as free energy (delta G0), enthalpy (delta H0) and entropy changes (delta S0) for the adsorption of Cu (II) were computed to predict the nature of adsorption process. The kinetics and the factors controlling the adsorption process were also studied. Locally available adsorbents were found to be low-cost and promising for the removal of Cu (II) from aqueous solution.
17350139	A cDNA, up-regulated upon treatment of tobacco cells with salicylic acid and benzo (1,2,3) thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester, was identified by differential RNA display and the full sequence obtained. This mitochondrial gene, twin arginine translocation (tatC), resembles orthologues across different species, including the gene that codes for a sec-independent membrane translocating protein in bacteria. Hypothetical tatC proteins have also been identified in the mitochondria of Arabidopsis thaliana, Oenothera berteriana, Beta vulgaris, Oryza sativa and Marchantia polymorpha. Comparative protein analysis indicates a similar function for the tatC gene. The up-regulation of the tatC gene in a 3kbp transcript was confirmed by RNA gel blot analysis.
17350165	This study presents the concentrations and speciation of heavy metals (HMs) in six different composts of sewage sludges deriving from two wastewater treatment plants in China. After 56 days of sludge composting with rice straw at a low C/N ratio (13:1), cadmium (Cd), copper (Cu), lead (Pb) and zinc (Zn) were enriched in sludge composts, exhibiting concentrations that varied from 0.75 to 2.0, 416 to 458, 66 to 168 and 1356 to 1750mgkg(-1) dry weight (d.w.), respectively. The concentrations increased by 12-60% for Cd, 8-17% for Cu, 15-43% for Pb and 14-44% for Zn compared to those in sewage sludges. The total concentrations of individual or total elements in the final composts exceeded the maximum permissible limits proposed for compost or fertilizer. In all the final composts, more than 70% of total Cu was associated with organic matter-bound fraction, while Zn was mainly concentrated in exchangeable and Fe-Mn oxide-bound fractions which implied the high mobility and bioavailability. Continuously aerated composting treatment exhibited better compost quality and lower potential toxicity of HMs, whereas inoculant with microorganism and enzyme spiked during composting had no obvious advantage on humification of organic matter and on reducing HM mobility and bioavailability.
17350232	The genus Burkholderia is a heterogeneous group with extraordinary nutritional versatility and which occupies a diversity of niches. In recent decades, members of Burkholderia have been shown to be active participants in plant-microbe interactions, imparting beneficial effects as plant-growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) or as pathogens. The study of quorum sensing and cell-density-dependent gene regulation, which play an important role in host colonization and pathogenesis, is extremely important in such a versatile organism. We report the identification and characterization by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) of N-acyl homoserine lactone (HSL) quorum sensing signal molecules by PGP Burkholderia. The Burkholderia spp. strains CBMB40, CBPB-HOD and CBPB-HIM investigated in this study were isolated from rice and possessed one or more PGP characteristics. Culture extracts of these strains contained detectable levels of hexanoyl (C(6)-), heptanoyl (C(7)-) and octanoyl (C(8)-) HSLs. Burkholderia sp. strain CBMB40 produced an additional molecule that migrated along decanoyl (C(10)-) HSL. Inoculation of HSL-producing Burkholderia strains through seed bacterization to canola stimulated root elongation. Signal molecules produced by Burkholderia strains could also be detected in planta, as determined by plate assays and TLC analysis of plant extracts. This study advances the hypothesis that signaling molecules by PGPB in planta might play a substantial role in increasing the pathogen resistance of plants.
17350935	A major source of inorganic nitrogen for rice plants grown in paddy soil is ammonium ions. The ammonium ions are actively taken up by the roots via ammonium transporters and subsequently assimilated into the amide residue of glutamine (Gln) by the reaction of glutamine synthetase (GS) in the roots. The Gln is converted into glutamate (Glu), which is a central amino acid for the synthesis of a number of amino acids, by the reaction of glutamate synthase (GOGAT). Although a small gene family for both GS and GOGAT is present in rice, ammonium-dependent and cell type-specific expression suggest that cytosolic GS1;2 and plastidic NADH-GOGAT1 are responsible for the primary assimilation of ammonium ions in the roots. In the plant top, approximately 80% of the total nitrogen in the panicle is remobilized through the phloem from senescing organs. Since the major form of nitrogen in the phloem sap is Gln, GS in the senescing organs and GOGAT in developing organs are important for nitrogen remobilization and reutilization, respectively. Recent work with a knock-out mutant of rice clearly showed that GS1;1 is responsible for this process. Overexpression studies together with age- and cell type-specific expression strongly suggest that NADH-GOGAT1 is important for the reutilization of transported Gln in developing organs. The overall process of nitrogen utilization within the plant is discussed.
17351053	YABBY and WUSCHEL-LIKE HOMEOBOX (WOX) genes have been shown to play important roles in lateral organ formation and meristem function. Here, we report the characterization of functional relationship between rice (Oryza sativa) YAB3 and WOX3 in rice leaf development. Rice YAB3 is closely related to maize (Zea mays) ZmYAB14 and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) FILAMENTOUS FLOWER (FIL), whereas rice WOX3 is highly conserved with maize narrow sheath1 (NS1) and NS2 and Arabidopsis PRESSED FLOWER (PRS). In situ hybridization experiments revealed that the expression of both genes was excluded from the shoot apical meristem, but the transcripts were detected in leaf primordia, young leaves, and reproductive organs without any polar distribution. The function of the two genes was studied by both overexpression and RNA interference (RNAi) in transgenic rice. YAB3 RNAi induced twisted and knotted leaves lacking specialized structures such as ligule and auricles, while no phenotypic change was observed in YAB3 overexpression plants, suggesting that rice YAB3 may be required for leaf cell growth and differentiation. Overexpression of WOX3 repressed YAB3 and showed a YAB3 RNAi phenotype. The expression of class I KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOX (KNOX) genes was ectopically induced in leaves of YAB3 RNAi or WOX3 overexpression plants. Data from inducible WOX3 expression and DNA-protein interaction assays suggested that WOX3 acted as a transcriptional repressor of YAB3. These data reveal a regulatory network involving YAB3, WOX3, and KNOX genes required for rice leaf development.
17351054	Rice blast disease, caused by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, is an excellent model system to study plant-fungal interactions and host defense responses. In this study, comprehensive analysis of the rice (Oryza sativa) transcriptome after M. grisea infection was conducted using robust-long serial analysis of gene expression. A total of 83,382 distinct 21-bp robust-long serial analysis of gene expression tags were identified from 627,262 individual tags isolated from the resistant (R), susceptible (S), and control (C) libraries. Sequence analysis revealed that the tags in the R and S libraries had a significant reduced matching rate to the rice genomic and expressed sequences in comparison to the C library. The high level of one-nucleotide mismatches of the R and S library tags was due to nucleotide conversions. The A-to-G and U-to-C nucleotide conversions were the most predominant types, which were induced in the M. grisea-infected plants. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that expression of the adenine deaminase and cytidine deaminase genes was highly induced after inoculation. In addition, many antisense transcripts were induced in infected plants and expression of four antisense transcripts was confirmed by strand-specific reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. These results demonstrate that there is a series of dynamic and complex transcript modifications and changes in the rice transcriptome at the M. grisea early infection stages.
17351055	Arabinoxylans (AXs) are major components of graminaceous plant cell walls, including those in the grain and straw of economically important cereals. Despite some recent advances in identifying the genes encoding biosynthetic enzymes for a number of other plant cell wall polysaccharides, the genes encoding enzymes of the final stages of AX synthesis have not been identified. We have therefore adopted a novel bioinformatics approach based on estimation of differential expression of orthologous genes between taxonomic divisions of species. Over 3 million public domain cereal and dicot expressed sequence tags were mapped onto the complete sets of rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genes, respectively. It was assumed that genes in cereals involved in AX biosynthesis would be expressed at high levels and that their orthologs in dicotyledonous plants would be expressed at much lower levels. Considering all rice genes encoding putative glycosyl transferases (GTs) predicted to be integral membrane proteins, genes in the GT43, GT47, and GT61 families emerged as much the strongest candidates. When the search was widened to all other rice or Arabidopsis genes predicted to encode integral membrane proteins, cereal genes in Pfam family PF02458 emerged as candidates for the feruloylation of AX. Our analysis, known activities, and recent findings elsewhere are most consistent with genes in the GT43 families encoding beta-1,4-xylan synthases, genes in the GT47 family encoding xylan alpha-1,2- or alpha-1,3-arabinosyl transferases, and genes in the GT61 family encoding feruloyl-AX beta-1,2-xylosyl transferases.
17351248	Soil nitrogen (N) is available to rice crops as either nitrate or ammonium, but only nitrate can be accrued in cells and so factors that influence its storage and remobilization are important for N use efficiency (NUE). The hypothesis that the ability of rice crops to remobilize N storage pools is an indicator of NUE was tested. When two commonly grown Chinese rice cultivars, Nong Ken (NK) and Yang Dao (YD), were compared in soil and hydroponics, YD had significantly greater NUE for biomass production. The ability of each cultivar to remobilize nitrate storage pools 24 h after N supply withdrawal was compared. Although microelectrode measurements of the epidermal sub-cellular nitrate pools in leaves and roots showed similar patterns of vacuolar remobilization in both cultivars, whole-tissue analysis showed very little depletion of storage pools after 24 h. However, leaf epidermal cell cytosolic nitrate activities were significantly higher in YD when compared with NK. Before N starvation and growing in 10 mM nitrate, the xylem nitrate activity in YD was lower than that of NK. After 24 h of N starvation the xylem nitrate had decreased more in YD than in NK. Tissue analysis of stems showed that YD had accumulated significantly more nitrate than NK, and the remobilization pattern suggested that this store is important for both cultivars. Changes in nitrate reductase activity (NRA) and expression were measured. Growing in 10 mM nitrate, NRA was undetectable in roots of both cultivars, and the leaf total NRA of equivalent leaves was similar in NK and YD. When the N supply was withdrawn, after 24 h NRA in NK was reduced to 80% but no decrease was found in YD. The proportion of NRA in an active form in YD was significantly higher than that in NK under both nitrate supply and deprivation conditions. Checking NR gene expression showed that leaf expression of OsNia1 was faster to respond to nitrate deprivation than OsNia2 in both cultivars. These measurements are discussed in relation to cultivar differences and physiological markers for NUE in rice.
17351617	Identification of all expressed transcripts in a sequenced genome is essential both for genome analysis and for realization of the goals of systems biology. We used the transcriptional profiling technology called 'massively parallel signature sequencing' to develop a comprehensive expression atlas of rice (Oryza sativa cv Nipponbare). We sequenced 46,971,553 mRNA transcripts from 22 libraries, and 2,953,855 small RNAs from 3 libraries. The data demonstrate widespread transcription throughout the genome, including sense expression of at least 25,500 annotated genes and antisense expression of nearly 9,000 annotated genes. An additional set of approximately 15,000 mRNA signatures mapped to unannotated genomic regions. The majority of the small RNA data represented lower abundance short interfering RNAs that match repetitive sequences, intergenic regions and genes. Among these, numerous clusters of highly regulated small RNAs were readily observed. We developed a genome browser (http://mpss.udel.edu/rice) for public access to the transcriptional profiling data for this important crop.
17352128	Since the 1970s, at least 200 hectares (ha) of farm-land has been polluted by the heavy metal cadmium (Cd). Consequently, the Cd pollution has led to contaminate the rice production and caused acute social panic. According to the recent investigation results performed by the Taiwan Environmental Protection Administration (TEPA), it is indicated that most of the Cd pollution incidents in Taiwan resulted from the waste-water discharge of stearate Cd factories. To prevent the Cd pollution incidents from spreading, the TEPA has either forced these factories to close down or assisted them in improving their production processes since the 1980s. Unfortunately, accidental incidents of Cd pollution still emerge in an endless stream, despite the strict governmental controls placed on these questionable factories. Whether this pollution has resulted from undetected or hidden pollution sources stemming from two decades ago or comes from some new source, will be an outstanding issue. Therefore, this study attempts to identify the pollution sources of Cd in soil in Taiwan as well as to find the solution to the above-mentioned, outstanding issue by way of a methodology termed Material Flow Analysis (MFA). The MFA has proved to be a useful tool on providing quantitative information of the flow of substances through an economic to an environmental system. Based upon the supply-and-demand theory of MFA, researchers have successfully conducted an overview of the use of materials in many industries, the construction industry being one of these. Therefore, this study tries to establish a set of analytical processes by way of MFA for identifying the pollution source of Cd in soil in Taiwan. In addition, the spirit of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) technique was also employed to identify the materials, and products should be ignored as a crucial pollution source in this study. According to the MFA methodology applied in this study and on the basis of related studies performed by Taiwanese governmental authorities, we arrive at the following analysis results: (1) the total amount of Cd from the economic perspective of material and product flow was approximately 441.2 tons; (2) the wastewater directly discharged into irrigation water can be concluded to be the major pollution route of Cd in farmland soil in Taiwan; (3) material plastic stabilizer (cadmium oxide, CdO), Zn-Pd compounds and Cu compounds should be the crucial pollution sources to contaminate environment through the route of wastewater in Cd flow analysis; (4) the crucial pollution sources to contaminate environment through the route of wastewater in Cd flow analysis were five factories, Coin, Jili, Taiwan Dye, Guangzheng and Mingguan, and they were all categorized as stearate Cd industries; (5) the typical source of the Cd pollution in soil in Changhua County through the pollution route of wastewater should be the metal surfacing process industries. This study proved that MFA can be a good tool for identifying Cd flow as well as for recognizing the crux of the problem concerning incidents of Cd pollution. This study led to the conclusion that the causal relationship between farmland pollution caused by Cd and stearate Cd factories in Taiwan seemed quite close by way of MFA methodology. In addition, this study also found that the wastewater discharged from a single metal surfacing process factory will not cause remarkable farmland pollution. However, the wastewater simultaneously discharged from a group of pollution factories can result in a significant pollution incident. This case study is only a small contribution to the understanding of the toxic material flow related to Cd in the environment. This study recommends that Taiwanese governmental authorities should not deal with problems on an ad hoc basis, but should instead deal with Cd pollution problems overall employing control measures. Finally, the more accurate information or data we can collect, the more reliable results we can identify. Therefore, the quality and quantity of related data used in this MFA model should be closely scrutinized in order to ensure the most correct and comprehensive investigation on the toxic material flow.
17352530	MicroRNAs are short, noncoding RNAs that play important roles in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Although many functions of microRNAs in plants and animals have been revealed in recent years, the transcriptional mechanism of microRNA genes is not well-understood. To elucidate the transcriptional regulation of microRNA genes, we study and characterize, in a genome scale, the promoters of intergenic microRNA genes in Caenorhabditis elegans, Homo sapiens, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Oryza sativa. We show that most known microRNA genes in these four species have the same type of promoters as protein-coding genes have. To further characterize the promoters of microRNA genes, we developed a novel promoter prediction method, called common query voting (CoVote), which is more effective than available promoter prediction methods. Using this new method, we identify putative core promoters of most known microRNA genes in the four model species. Moreover, we characterize the promoters of microRNA genes in these four species. We discover many significant, characteristic sequence motifs in these core promoters, several of which match or resemble the known cis-acting elements for transcription initiation. Among these motifs, some are conserved across different species while some are specific to microRNA genes of individual species.
17352905	Magnaporthe oryzae is the most destructive fungal pathogen of rice worldwide and because of its amenability to classical and molecular genetic manipulation, availability of a genome sequence, and other resources it has emerged as a leading model system to study host-pathogen interactions. This chapter reviews recent progress toward elucidation of the molecular basis of infection-related morphogenesis, host penetration, invasive growth, and host-pathogen interactions. Related information on genome analysis and genomic studies of plant infection processes is summarized under specific topics where appropriate. Particular emphasis is placed on the role of MAP kinase and cAMP signal transduction pathways and unique features in the genome such as repetitive sequences and expanded gene families. Emerging developments in functional genome analysis through large-scale insertional mutagenesis and gene expression profiling are detailed. The chapter concludes with new prospects in the area of systems biology, such as protein expression profiling, and highlighting remaining crucial information needed to fully appreciate host-pathogen interactions.
17354416	Orv'za gluniaepatula is a perennial wild rice species, endemic to tropical America, previously known as the Latin American race of Orrza rufipogon. In Costa Rica, it is found in the northern region of the country, mainly in the wetland of the Medio Queso River, Los Chiles, Alajuela. It is diploid, of AA type genome and because of its genetic relatedness to cultivated rice it is included in the O. saliva complex. We describe the ultrastructure of leaf blade, spikelet, ligule and auricles. Special emphasis is given to those traits of major taxonomic value for O. glumaepatula and to those characters that distinguish this species from O. rufipogon and O. sativa. O. glumaepatula has a leaf blade covered with tombstone-shaped, oblong and spheroid epicuticular wax papillae. It has diamond-shaped stomata surrounded by spherical papillae, rows of zipper-like silica cells, bulky prickle trichomes of ca. 40 microm in length and small hirsute trichomes of ca. 32 tpm in length. The central vein is covered with large, globular papillae of ca. 146 microm in length, a characteristic that distinguishes this species from O. rufipogon and O. sativa. The border of the leaf blade exhibits a row of even-sized bulky prickle trichomes of ca. 42.5 microm in length. Auricles have attenuated trichomes of ca. 5.5 mm in length on the edges and small bicellular trichomes of 120 microm in length on the surface. The ligule has a large number of short attenuated trichomes on its surface of 100 microm in length. These latter two traits have important taxonomic value since they were found in O. glumaepatula but not found in O. sativa or in O. rufipogon. The spikelet has the typical morphology of the Oryza genus. Fertile lemmas have abundant spines, a trait shared with O. rufipogon but not with O. sativa. The sterile lemmas are wing-shaped with serrated borders, a characteristic that distinguishes this species from O. rufipogon and O. sativa. All the ultrastructure characters observed in O. glumaepatula from Costa Rica are also common to the specimens from Brazil.
17354447	With the purpose of increasing the embryogenesis regeneration process in vitroplants obtained from somatic embryos of the indica rice variety CR-5272 (Oryza sativa L.), two independent experiments were performed. The first experiment consisted in the effect of combination of three concentrations of the gelling agent Phytagel (1.8. 2.4. and 3 gL(-1)) and four 2,4-D concentrations (2.26, 4.52. 6.78, and 9.05 microM) on the induction and subsequent regeneration of embryogenic calli. On the second experiment, the pre-regeneration phase was modified: calli were subjected to darkness or diffuse light conditions for one, two, and three weeks. In embryogenesis induction, 35% calligenesis was obtained using the MS culture medium supplemented with 6.78 microM of 2.4-D and 2.4 gL(-1) Phytagel, whereas on the control treatment (MS medium supplemented with 9.05 microM of 2.4-D and 3 gL(-1) Phytagel) 24% calligenesis was obtained. In addition, regeneration percentages were improved (22% and 16% for calli induced with the above treatments, respectively). Furthermore, in light exposure experiments, the best result was obtained by exposing the embryogenic calli to darkness for one week in pre-regeneration, followed by direct light exposure during the regeneration phase.
17354454	Biomass of the crustacean Artemia sp. has multiple uses. The biochemical composition and biomass production of Artemia grown from cysts produced by a native population from Real de Salinas were evaluated under laboratory conditions. Nauplii (instar I) were stocked at density of 10 nauplii/ml in 1.5 l tanks, fed with rice bran from day 2 to day 6, and with the microalgae Tetraselmis suecica from day 7 to day 15. At the end of the trial (day 15) the average length was 5.34 mm, biomass production was 15.72 g/l (wet weight), and survival was 79%. The proximal analysis and biochemical composition of Artemia biomass indicated that its nutrient percentages are closely similar to Artemia from other regions, making this species a suitable food for cultured fish and crustacean.
17356864	One way to use a crop germplasm collection directly to map QTLs without using line-crossing experiments is the whole genome association mapping. A major problem with association mapping is the presence of population structure, which can lead to both false positives and failure to detect genuine associations (i.e., false negatives). Particularly in highly selfing species such as Asian cultivated rice, high levels of population structure are expected and therefore the efficiency of association mapping remains almost unknown. Here, we propose an approach that combines a Bayesian method for mapping multiple QTLs with a regression method that directly incorporates estimates of population structure. That is, the effects due to both multiple QTLs and population structure were included in our statistical model. We evaluated the efficiency of our approach in simulated- and real-trait analyses of a rice germplasm collection. Simulation analyses based on real marker data showed that our model could suppress both false-positive and false-negative rates and the error of estimation of genetic effects over single QTL models, indicating that our model has statistically desirable attributes over single QTL models. As real traits, we analyzed the size and shape of milled rice grains and found significant markers that may be linked to QTLs reported previously. Association mapping should have good prospects in highly selfing species such as rice if proper methods are adopted. Our approach will be useful for the whole genome association mapping of various selfing crop species.
17359280	Bacteriophages, the viruses that infect bacteria, are the most abundant biological entities in the biosphere and play a key role in global biogeochemical cycling. All T4-type bacteriophage isolates tested so far have a conserved genetic module that encodes the virion components including gene 23 (g23), the major capsid protein. Molecular analysis of the g23 sequence revealed a remarkable level of diversity of T4-type bacteriophages isolated from rice straw and surface soil in a Japanese rice field. It was found that g23 sequences obtained from the rice field were quite distinctive from those obtained in marine environments. Phylogenetic analysis showed that most of these g23 sequences belonged to two novel subgroups of T4-type bacteriophages, although some of them were related to well-studied subgroups of T4-type bacteriophages, such as marine cyanophage isolates of exoT-evens.
17359927	Because free-insecticide treated net distribution is planned in Benin (West Africa) during the next few years, we investigated the type, frequency and distribution of insecticide resistance mechanisms in Anopheles gambiae and Culex quinquefasciatus mosquitoes in four localities selected on the basis of contrasting agricultural practices, use of insecticides and environment. Bioassays with WHO diagnostic test kits were carried out using pyrethroid, carbamate, organophosphate and organochlorine insecticides. An. gambiae mosquitoes were identified to species and to M or S molecular forms using PCR techniques. Molecular and biochemical assays were carried out to identify kdr and Ace.1 mutations in individual mosquitoes and to detect any increase in the activity of enzymes typically involved in insecticide metabolism (oxidase, esterase and glutathion-S-transfrases). WHO diagnostic tests showed high frequency of resistance in An. gambiae and Cx. quinquefasciatus to permethrin and DDT in three areas. This was consistent with the presence of target site insensitivity due to kdr mutation and to increased metabolism through enzymatic activity. Kdr was expressed in both M and S forms. However, less than 1% of An. gambiae or Cx. quiqnuefasciatus showed the presence of the Ace.1(R) mutation. Carbamate/OP resistance was present at higher frequency in Culex than in An. gambiae. Dieldrin resistance was present in both species at all four localities. A higher frequency of pyrethroid-resistance was found in An. gambiae mosquitoes collected in urban areas compared to those collected in rice growing areas. The expansion of vegetable growing within urban areas probably contributed to selection pressure on mosquitoes. The detection of multiple resistance mechanisms in both An. gambiae and Cx. quinquefasciatus in Benin may represent a threat for the efficacy of ITNs and other forms of vector control such as indoor residual spraying in the future.
17360591	Roots display hydrotropism in response to moisture gradients, which is thought to be important for controlling their growth orientation, obtaining water, and establishing their stand in the terrestrial environment. However, the molecular mechanism underlying hydrotropism remains unknown. Here, we report that roots of the Arabidopsis mutant mizu-kussei1 (miz1), which are impaired in hydrotropism, show normal gravitropism and elongation growth. The roots of miz1 plants showed reduced phototropism and a modified wavy growth response. There were no distinct differences in morphological features and root structure between miz1 and wild-type plants. These results suggest that the pathway inducing hydrotropism is independent of the pathways used in other tropic responses. The phenotype results from a single recessive mutation in MIZ1, which encodes a protein containing a domain (the MIZ domain) that is highly conserved among terrestrial plants such as rice and moss. The MIZ domain was not found in known genomes of organisms such as green algae, red algae, cyanobacteria, or animals. We hypothesize that MIZ1 has evolved to play an important role in adaptation to terrestrial life because hydrotropism could contribute to drought avoidance in higher plants. In addition, a pMIZ1::GUS fusion gene was expressed strongly in columella cells of the root cap but not in the elongation zone, suggesting that MIZ1 functions in the early phase of the hydrotropic response.
17361569	The non-structural NS3 protein gene from the rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV) was fused to the glutathione-S-transferase carboxilic end and expressed in Escherichia coli strain JM83. Large quantities of fusion protein were produced in insoluble form. The fusion protein was fractionated in SDS-PAGE and purified by electroelution, polyclonal antibodies were raised in rabbit and the antiserum was absorbed with bacterial crude extract. A band of similar size as that of NS3 protein was observed in Western blots using extracts from RHBV-infected rice plants. Immunoelectron microscopy with colloidal gold-labeled antibodies against NS3 protein and the viral nucleocapsid protein revealed in situ accumulation of NS3 protein in the cytoplasm but not in the viral inclusion bodies, vacuoles or chloroplasts of RHBV-infected plants, following the same pattern of distribution as the RHBV nucleocapsid protein.
17361570	Tagosodes orizicolus Muir (Homoptera: Delphacidae), the endemic delphacid species of tropical America carries yeast-like symbiotes (YLS) in the abdominal fat bodies and the ovarial tissues, like other rice planthoppers of Asia. These YLS are obligate symbiotes, which are transmitted transovarially, and maintain a mutualistic relationship with the insect host. This characteristic has made in vitro culture and classification of YLS rather difficult using conventional methods. Nevertheless, microorganisms of similar characteristics have been successfully classified by using molecular taxonomy. In the present work, the YLS of Tagosodes orizicolus (YLSTo) were purified on Percoll gradients, and specific segments of 18S rDNA were amplified by PCR, cloned and sequenced. Sequences were aligned by means of the CLUSTAL V (DNASTAR) program; phylogenetic trees were constructed with the Phylogeny Inference Package (PHYLIP), showing that YLSTo belong to the fungi class Pyrenomycetes, phylum Ascomycota. Similarities between 98% and 100% were observed among YLS of the rice delphacids Tagosodes orizicolus, Nilaparvata lugens, Laodelphax striatellus and Sogatella fur cifera, and between 89.8% and 90.8% when comparing the above to YLS of the aphid Hamiltonaphis styraci. These comparisons revealed that delphacid YLS are a highly conserved monophyletic group within the Pyrenomycetes and are closely related to Hypomyces chrysospermus.
17361572	Tagosodes orizicolus (Homoptera: Delphacidae) is one of the main constraints of the rice production in the Neotropics. This planthopper produces severe damages as a phloem feeder, causes mechanical injury during oviposition and vectors the rice hoja blanca virus (RHBV). The main objective of this study was to determine the genetic diversity of T. orizicolus populations from three rice growing regions of Costa Rica, using RAPDs. Individuals from Guanacaste, Parrita, San Carlos and Cali-Colombia, as outgroup, were analyzed using the random primers. Phenetic relationships revealed that the Costa Rican populations were clearly separated from Cali-Colombia, sharing less than 25% similarity. Costa Rican populations were divided into two main branches separated at 30% similarity. The first branch included Guanacaste and San Carlos and the second displayed Parrita. In relation to similarity indexes within groups, the Guanacaste cluster showed the highest (over 50%) and Cali-Colombia was the most diverse (28%). The correspondence analysis confirmed the clusters of the phenogram and showed close interactions between the Parrita and San Carlos populations. The genetic separation observed could be the result of the geographic isolation among populations, but it could also be explained by the infection with the rickettsia Wolbachia pipientis. This bacterium causes cytoplasmic incompatibility in its host, which results in non-viable progeny when infected males mate with non-infected females, or when insects hosting different strains of Wolbachia mate. Then, a search for Wolbachia in previously described populations of T orizicolus was initiated. The presence of the bacteria was analyzed by PCR with 16S rDNA-specific primers for Wolbachia. The PCR analyses revealed infections of 86% in the population of San Carlos, 96% in Guanacaste, 37% in Parrita and 100% in Cali-Colombia. Crosses between individuals of T. orizicolus from Parrita and Guanacaste were performed for testing cytoplasmic incompatibility. When infected males were crossed with non-infected females within the same population, a significant reduction in progeny number was obtained as well as when crosses between infected individuals belonging to different populations were performed. These experiments showed cytoplasmic incompatibility not only caused by the presence of Wolbachia within the population, but also by the presence of different strains of the bacteria between populations.
17361739	To reveal the unique microstructure of silica in rice and its absorption of ultra violet, wet digestion was chosen to isolate silica bodies from rice leaves and bract according to the fact that concentrated acid cannot destroy glass made of SiO2. A mixed solution of sulfuric and nitric acids was applied to the leaves and bract of rice, respectively. After keeping the treated samples in 60-70 "C water bath for 30 hours and times of washing and sedimentation in water, pure silica bodies were obtained. The detection by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy(XPS) indicated that there was 35. 05% of carbon 10 nm under the surface of the silica body, much more than the amount of 5. 88% on the out surface which might be due to the contamination of the air contact with the sample. This fact showed that acid couldn't get into the silica body to oxidize the inner organic compounds to alter the structure, therefore the chemical and physical properties of the silica measured could account for the original status in the leaf and bract. Scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy observation revealed that the silica body of rice is made up of inseparable SiO2 particles of 1-2 nm, sticking slackly to form nano-scale rods of average 45 nm wide and arranging in the same direction. Besides, there were lots of pores inside the inner part of the silica body, including both micron-scale pores (< or = 1 microm) and nano interstitial pores(< or =1-2 nm). The bract silica has the greatest absorption at 285 nm of UV-B, while the leaf silica has a very low UV absorption, indicating that silica in the two organs of rice has different mechanism of radiation resistance.
17362027	Glycerol is often added to starches to plasticize the product, but the presence of glycerol may also affect the water content of the samples. To evaluate the effect of glycerol on the sorption properties of starches, waxy maize, rice, and wheat starch were thermomechanically extruded in the presence of glycerol. Sorption isotherms of these extruded samples were ascertained using dynamic vapor sorption (DVS). BET and GAB modeling showed a monolayer (mo) significantly higher for waxy maize than for rice and wheat. Glycerol inclusion changed the model values, indicating reduction in sorption energy at the monolayer and restructuring of the multilayer. An interaction factor (xi) based on weight fraction models was calculated. Differences in xi were obtained when glycerol was added, varying from approximately 0.9 for 5% glycerol to approximately 0.8 for 20% glycerol, supporting the hypothesis of interactions between starch and this polyol.
17362360	Plant height and tiller number are two important characters related to yield in rice (Oriza sativa L.). Zhenshan97 x Minghui63 recombinant inbred lines were employed to dissect the genetic basis of development of plant height and tiller number using conditional and unconditional composite interval mapping approaches. The traits were normally distributed with transgressive segregation in both directions. Increasingly negative correlations were observed between tiller number and plant height at five consecutive growth stages. A total of 23 and 24 QTL were identified for tiller number and plant height, respectively. More QTL were detected by conditional mapping than by conventional mapping. Different QTL/genes apparently controlled the traits at different developmental stages. Three genomic regions were identified as putative co-located QTL, which showed opposite additive effects on tiller number and plant height. Furthermore, in the period reaching maximum tiller number, the expression of QTL for tiller number was active, whereas that of QTL for plant height was inactive. These facts provided a possible genetic explanation for the negative correlations between the traits. The research demonstrates conditional mapping to be superior to conventional mapping for this type of research. Implications of the results for hybrid rice improvement are discussed.
17362859	The type of water management and drainage system could be a potential reason for variation in malaria transmission in rice cultivation areas. To investigate this we have compared the population dynamics of Anopheles mosquitoes (Diptera, Culicidae) in rice plots with controlled and uncontrolled water depth, i.e. casiers and hors-casiers, respectively in the Office du Niger, Mali. We also compared malaria transmission in areas with mixed and casiers plots. Larval collection was performed fortnightly with the standard WHO dipping technique. Adult Anopheles were collected both by pyrethrum spray and landing catches. During the dry season rice cultivation cycle, the larval density in the hors-casier was significantly higher than in the casier plots. The larval peak in the casier plots was considerably smaller than the one in the hors-casier. During the rainy season, no significant difference was observed between the two plot types. However, larval densities begin to rise approximately one month earlier in the casier then in the hors-casier plots, and continued to increase trough the rice development phases until the grain filling/maturation phase, declining thereafter. In contrast, in the hors-casier rice plots larval density increased throughout the rice development. This difference was not significantly reflected in the adult vector density and man biting rate. However, high relative frequencies of Anopheles funestus, survival and entomological inoculation rates of An. gambiae s.l. were observed in the mixed plot sector.
17363107	Four UDP-dependent glucosyltransferase (UGT) genes, UGT706C1, UGT706D1, UGT707A3, and UGT709A4 were cloned from rice, expressed in Escherichia coli, and purified to homogeneity. In order to find out whether these enzymes could use flavonoids as glucose acceptors, apigenin, daidzein, genistein, kaempferol, luteolin, naringenin, and quercetin were used as potential glucose acceptors. UGT706C1 and UGT707A3 could use kaempferol and quercetin as glucose acceptors and the major glycosylation position was the hydroxyl group of carbon 3 based on the comparison of HPLC retention times, UV spectra, and NMR spectra with those of corresponding authentic flavonoid 3-O-glucosides. On the other hand, UGT709A4 only used the isoflavonoids genistein and daidzein and transferred glucose onto 7-hydroxyl group. In addition, UGT706D1 used a broad range of flavonoids including flavone, flavanone, flavonol, and isoflavone, and produced at least two products with glycosylation at different hydroxyl groups. Based on their substrate preferences and the flavonoids present in rice, the in vivo function of UGT706C1, UGT706D1, and UGT707A3 is most likely the biosynthesis of kaempferol and quercetin glucosides.
17364223	We cloned a salicylic acid/benzoic acid carboxyl methyltransferase gene, OsBSMT1, from Oryza sativa. A recombinant OsBSMT1 protein obtained by expressing the gene in Escherichia coli exhibited carboxyl methyltransferase activity in reactions with salicylic acid (SA), benzoic acid (BA), and de-S-methyl benzo(1,2,3)thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid (dSM-BTH), producing methyl salicylate (MeSA), methyl benzoate (MeBA), and methyl dSM-BTH (MeBTH), respectively. Compared to wild-type plants, transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing OsBSMT1 accumulated considerably higher levels of MeSA and MeBA, some of which were vaporized into the environment. Upon infection with the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae or the fungal pathogen Golovinomyces orontii, transgenic plants failed to accumulate SA and its glucoside (SAG), becoming more susceptible to disease than wild-type plants. OsBSMT1-overexpressing Arabidopsis showed little induction of PR-1 when treated with SA or G. orontii. Notably, incubation with the transgenic plant was sufficient to trigger PR-1 induction in neighboring wild-type plants. Together, our results indicate that in the absence of SA, MeSA alone cannot induce a defense response, yet it serves as an airborne signal for plant-to-plant communication. We also found that jasmonic acid (JA) induced AtBSMT1, which may contribute to an antagonistic effect on SA signaling pathways by depleting the SA pool in plants.
17364810	Germin and germin-like proteins (GLPs) are water soluble extracellular proteins reportedly expressed in response to some environmental and developmental signals. Some enzymatic activities have also been associated with germin/GLPs. However, their role in overall metabolism has not been fully understood. Significant insight into their function may also be gained by analysis of their promoter. During this study, about 1107 bp 5'region of OsRGLP2 gene was amplified, cloned and sequenced. The sequence analysis by BLAST showed that this promoter sequence has five common regions (CR1-CR5) of different sizes, which are repeated at 3-6 other locations in 30 kb region in which this gene driven by its promoter is located. Interestingly, all the genes driven by promoter harboring these common regions are GLPs/putative germins. Analysis of these common regions located on OsRGLP2 indicated presence of many elements including those for light responsiveness, dehydration and dark induced senescence, stresses (pathogen and salt), plant growth regulators, pollen specific expression and elements related to seed storage proteins. Analysis of the 30 kb germin/GLP clustered region by GenScan detected each gene to have a putative 40 bp promoter which contains TATA box and Dof factor which turned out to be a part of CR2.
17364931	One hundred samples of dried fruits (20 dried raisins, 20 walnuts, 20 peanuts, 20 dried figs and 20 pistachios) and 20 samples of rice purchased from retail shops in the Rabat and Sal area in Morocco were analysed for ochratoxin A (OTA) by immunoaffinity clean-up (IAC) and liquid chromatography (LC) with fluorescence detection. The limit of quantification (LOQ) (S/N = 10:1) of OTA was 0.02 ng g(-1) in rice, 0.03 ng g(-1) in pistachio, peanut and walnut, and 0.03 ng g(-1) in dried raisins and dried figs. The incidences of occurrence of OTA in dried raisins, walnuts, peanuts, dried figs and rice were 30, 35, 25, 65 and 90%, respectively. Analytical results showed that pistachio samples contained no detectable OTA, but concentrations ranged from 0.02 +/- 0.01 to 32.4 +/- 2.10 ng g(-1) in rice, from 0.10 +/- 0.05 to 2.36 +/- 0.75 in peanut, from 0.03 +/- 0.01 to 1.42 +/- 0.45 in dried figs, from 0.05 +/- 0.02 to 4.95 +/- 0.02 in dried raisins, and from 0.04 +/- 0.01 to 0.23 +/- 0.05 in walnuts. The results also showed that 15% of the total number of rice samples analysed exceeded the 2002 regulatory limit set by European Union regulations for cereals. This is the first report on the occurrence of OTA in dried fruits and rice available in Morocco.
17365296	Two models were used in concert to predict nutrient loads in a waterbody receiving irrigation return flows from a rice paddy production system. Two irrigation scenarios were simulated, one using reclaimed wastewater as the irrigation water source, the other using water from a surface reservoir designed to supply irrigation water. Total nitrogen (TN) and total phosphorus (TP) loads in irrigation return flows from the rice paddy fields were simulated using the field-scale water quality model Chemical, Runoff and Erosion from Agricultural Management System model for rice paddy fields (CREAMS-PADDY). The output from CREAMS-PADDY was then used as input data for Hydrological Simulation Program-FORTRAN (HSPF) model. HSPF was used to evaluate TN and TP loads in the receiving waterbody at the watershed-scale. CREAMS-PADDY and HSPF were calibrated for both hydrology and water quality using observed data. Both CREAMS-PADDY and HSPF showed good agreement between the observed and simulated data during the calibration and validation periods. Simulation indicated that TN and TP loads from the study paddy fields increased by 207% and 1022% when reclaimed wastewater was used for irrigation compared to conventional irrigation. Irrigating paddy fields (18.8% of the 385 ha study watershed) with reclaimed wastewater increased the TN load at the watershed outlet by 10.3% and TP by 14.0%. The increase in nutrient loads was the result of the high nutrient concentration in the reclaimed wastewater. The procedures used in this research can be used to develop wastewater reuse strategies that minimize environmental impacts on watershed water quality.
17365313	The objective of this research was to monitor and assess the impact of reclaimed wastewater irrigation on water quality, soil, and rice cultivation by comparing the effects of various wastewater treatment levels on the growth and yield of rice. A randomized complete block design was used for the application methods of the wastewater effluents to paddy rice, with five treatments and six replications. The treatments were: control with groundwater irrigation (GW); irrigation with polluted water form a nearby stream (SW); and three treatments of reclaimed wastewater irrigation at different treatment levels. The three levels of wastewater treatments included wastewater effluents: (i) directly from the wastewater plant (WW); (ii) after passing through a sand filter (WSF); and (iii) after passing a sand filter followed by an ultraviolet treatment (WSFUV). Each plot was 4 x 4 m and was planted with rice (Oryza sativa L.) in 2002 and 2003. The results indicated that irrigation of rice with reclaimed municipal wastewater caused no adverse effects on the growth and yield of rice. The chemical compositions of the rice from all plots were within the normal ranges of brown rice quality in Korea. No adverse effects were observed on chemical concentrations including the heavy metals Cu, As, Cd, Zn, Hg, and Pb, in either the brown rice or the field. The results showed that treated municipal wastewater can be safely used as an alternative water source for the irrigation of rice, although continued monitoring will be needed to determine the long-term effects with regard to soil contamination and other potential health concerns.
17365960	A series of our SAR and QSAR studies of synthetic moulting hormone agonists, dibenzoylhydrazines (DBH), exhibiting insecticidal/larvicidal activity are reviewed in this article. We prepared a number of analogues where various substituents are introduced into the two benzene rings of DBH and measured their biological activity using various biological systems. Larvicidal activity was against larvae of the rice stem borer Chilo suppressalis and the moulting hormone activity was in terms of the stimulation of N-acetylglucosamine incorporation in a cultured integument system of the same insect species. Binding affinity to the ecdysone receptor was assayed with intact Sf-9 cell lines in which the ADME processes are negligible as well as using receptor proteins obtained by in vitro translation of the responsible cDNA cloned from cell-free preparation of integumentary tissue of C. suppressalis. Variations in the biological activity indices were either correlated between two types of activity or correlated using physicochemical molecular and substituent parameters in terms of the classical QSAR. Comparisons among correlations and with recently revealed X-ray crystallographic findings clearly indicate the physicochemical meaning of parameters significant in the correlation equations to help understanding molecular mechanism of the moulting hormonal action.
17366567	Yusho is a form of food poisoning that occurred in 1968, as a result of consuming rice bran oil contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and various dioxins such as polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs). The victims of Yusho suffered from various dermatological, ophthalmological, and mucosal symptoms in addition to general fatigue, weight loss, anorexia, headache, paresthesia of the extremities, abdominal pain, cough and sputa, dysmenorrhea, and growth retardation in infants and children. We measured the blood levels of dioxins in the annual medical check-up of Yusho patients from 2001 to 2003. To analyze the relationship between the concentrations of PCDFs/PCBs and the subjective/objective/laboratory findings of patients with Yusho. We also compared the present clinical findings with those collected in 1988. The mean blood level of 2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran (PeCDF) in 359 patients with Yusho was 177.50 pg/g lipids, which was much higher than that of normal controls (15.2 +/- 8.9 pg/g lipids). The blood levels of PeCDF were significantly correlated with total PCB levels, hexachlorobiphenyl levels, urinary sugar, 2-h erythrocyte sedimentation rate, thymol turbidity test, and sodium levels. A significant correlation was also noted with dermatological findings (acneform eruption and comedones), mucosal findings (oral pigmentation), constipation, numbness in the extremities, body weight loss, and abnormal abdominal ultrasonography. The incidence and severity of most of the dermatological and ophthalmological symptoms decreased from 1988 to 2001-2003. In conclusion, high amounts of PCBs and PeCDF are still present in a number of patients with Yusho. The patients still suffer from various mucocutaneous and subjective symptoms.
17366772	Arsenic contamination in groundwater in Bangladesh has become an additional concern vis--vis its use for irrigation purposes. Even if arsenic-safe drinking-water is assured, the question of irrigating soils with arsenic-laden groundwater will continue for years to come. Immediate attention should be given to assess the possibility of accumulating arsenic in soils through irrigation-water and its subsequent entry into the food-chain through various food crops and fodders. With this possibility in mind, arsenic content of 2,500 water, soil and vegetable samples from arsenic-affected and arsenic-unaffected areas were analyzed during 1999-2004. Other sources of foods and fodders were also analyzed. Irrigating a rice field with groundwater containing 0.55 mg/L of arsenic with a water requirement of 1,000 mm results in an estimated addition of 5.5 kg of arsenic per ha per annum. Concentration of arsenic as high as 80 mg per kg of soil was found in an area receiving arsenic-contaminated irrigation. A comparison of results from affected and unaffected areas revealed that some commonly-grown vegetables, which would usually be suitable as good sources of nourishment, accumulate substantially-elevated amounts of arsenic. For example, more than 150 mg/kg of arsenic has been found to be accumulated in arum (kochu) vegetable. Implications of arsenic ingested in vegetables and other food materials are discussed in the paper.
17366880	Environmental stresses and the continuing deterioration of arable land, along with an explosive increase in world population, pose serious threats to global agricultural production and food security. Improving the tolerance of the major crop plants to abiotic stresses has been a main goal in agriculture for a long time. As rice is considered one of the major crops, the development of new cultivars with enhanced abiotic stress-tolerance will undoubtedly have an important effect on global food production. The transgenic approach offers an attractive alternative to conventional techniques for the genetic improvement of rice cultivars. In recent years, an array of stress-related genes has already been transferred to rice to improve its resistance against abiotic stresses. Many transgenic rice plants with enhanced abiotic stress-tolerance have been obtained. This article focuses on the progress in the study of abiotic stress tolerance in transgenic rice breeding.
17367160	Hydrolyzed vegetable protein (HVP) was prepared from rice bran protein concentrate (RBPc) by partial hydrolysis with aqueous 0.5 N HCl at 95 degrees C for 12 or 36 h (H-RBPc-12 and H-RBPc-36, respectively). Aroma components of the RBPc and the HVPs were characterized by gas chromatography-olfactometry, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, aroma extract dilution analysis, and calculation of odor activity values (OAVs). The predominant odorants in RBPc were 3-methylbutanal, hexanal, 2-aminoacetophenone, (E)-2-nonenal, phenylacetaldehyde, and beta-damascenone. Among these, the odor of 2-aminoacetophenone, present at 59 ng/g in RBPc, was reminiscent of the typical odor of RBPc. Most of the predominant odorants had higher log3FD factors in the H-RBPc-36 as compared to H-RBPc-12. Aroma impact compounds of H-RBPc-12 and H-RBPc-36 were 2-methoxyphenol (guaiacol), 4-hydroxy-2,5-dimethyl-3(2H)furanone, 3-hydroxy-4,5-dimethyl-2(5H)furanone (sotolon), vanillin, 3-methylbutanal, (E)-2-nonenal, 4-vinyl-2-methoxyphenol (p-vinylguaiacol), and beta-damascenone. Guaiacol had the highest OAV values of 2770 and 17650 in H-RBPc-12 and H-RBPc-36, respectively.
17367786	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a newly discovered class of non-protein-coding small RNAs with roughly 22 nucleotide-long. Increasing evidence has shown that miRNAs play multiple roles in biological processes, including development, cell proliferation and apoptosis and stress responses. In this research, several approaches were combined to make computational prediction of potential miRNAs and their targets in Brassica napus. We used previously known miRNAs from Arabidopsis, rice and other plant species against both expressed sequence tags (EST) and genomic survey sequence (GSS) databases to search for potential miRNAs in B. napus. A total of 21 potential miRNAs were detected following a range of strict filtering criteria. Using these potential miRNA sequences, we could further blast the mRNA database and found 67 potential targets in this species. According to the mRNA target information provided by NCBI (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/), most of the target mRNAs appeared to be involved in plant growth, development and stress responses. To validate the prediction of miRNAs in B. napus, we performed a RT-PCR based assay of mature miRNA expression. Five miRNAs were identified in response to auxin, cadmium stress and phosphate starvation. So far, little is known about experimental or computational identification of miRNA in B. napus species. To improve efficiency for blast search, we developed an implementation (miRNAassist) that can identify homologs of miRNAs and their targets, with high sensitivity and specificity. The program is allowed to be run on Windows Operation System platform. miRNAassist is freely available if required.
17368394	We examined production levels of dye-decolorizing peroxidase (rDyP) by recombinant Aspergillus oryzae using wheat bran and rice bran powders in repeated-batch and fed-batch cultures. Similar average rDyP productivities were observed in repeated-batch cultures using wheat bran powder and rice bran powder. Average rDyP productivities in fed-batch cultures were slightly lower than those in repeated-batch cultures. The rDyP production was affected by the addition of K(2)HPO(4) in the repeated-batch and fed-batch cultures using wheat bran powder. All average rDyP productivities in this study were significantly higher than those for any other peroxidases previously reported.
17369146	Gibberellins (GAs) is a sort of high efficiency plant growth regulator which is very important for cotton fiber initiation and development. Recently, the research of GA signal transduction mostly focuses on Arabidopsis, wheat, barley, maize, rice and so on. Yet we know little about molecular mechanism of GA to cotton fiber initiation and development. In recent years, exciting progress has been made in identifying many important components involved in gibberellin signal transduction pathways, which can help us to understand deeply these pathways and their regulation. This review summarized the recently research process of GA signal transduction and correlation of GA and cotton fiber' molecular development. We hope that the paper can provide some new ideas about the function and mechanism of GA in cotton fiber initiation and development, and for cotton breeding task.
17369160	The present paper compared the major storage proteins in starchy endosperm of four autotetraploid rice lines with that of their corresponding diploid rice lines. The content of albumin, globulin, prolamin and glutelin in each sample was determined respectively. The structure and expression pattern of each storage protein was investigated using one-dimensional SDS-PAGE. Our results showed that the protein content of each fraction in endosperm of autotetraploid rice line is mostly higher than that of its corresponding diploid rice line. However, the SDS-PAGE analysis showed that the subunit types of each storage protein of autotetraploid rice line was generally homologous to that of its corresponding diploid rice line, except for one differential band observed on SDS-PAGE gels of total protein fraction and another on the SDS-PAGE gels of albumin and globulin fraction. These results indicated that duplicated genes in autotetraploid rice ac-quired the same expression patterns as that seen in its corresponding diploid rice. It was suggested that the doubling of chromosome sets did not change the protein expression profile but the protein expression level in the starchy endosperm of autotetraploid rice.
17369161	Sex determination is a complex regulatory process of early embryogenesis. Embryo must make a developmental decision to develop as a male or female during gonadogenesis. This paper reviews genetic systems of sex determination, gonadogenesis, key genes involved in sex determination of vertebrates. Molecular evolution processes of sex chromosomes and sex determination provide a clue to tendency of sex-determining genes to appear on heterotypic sex chromosome.
17369428	Gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis is regulated by feedback control providing a mechanism for GA homeostasis in plants. However, regulatory elements involved in the feedback control are not known. In this report, we show that a rice (Oryza sativa) YABBY1 (YAB1) gene had a similar expression pattern as key rice GA biosynthetic genes GA3ox2 and GA20ox2. Overexpression of YAB1 in transgenic rice resulted in a semidwarf phenotype that could be fully rescued by applied GA. Quantification of the endogenous GA content revealed increases of GA(20) and decreases of GA(1) levels in the overexpression plants, in which the transcripts of the biosynthetic gene GA3ox2 were decreased. Cosuppression of YAB1 in transgenic plants induced expression of GA3ox2. The repression of GA3ox2 could be obtained upon treatment by dexamethasone of transgenic plants expressing a YAB1-glucocorticoid receptor fusion. Importantly, we show that YAB1 bound to a GA-responsive element within the GA3ox2 promoter. In addition, the expression of YAB1 was deregulated in GA biosynthesis and signaling mutants and could be either transiently induced by GA or repressed by a GA inhibitor. Finally, either overexpression or cosuppression of YAB1 impaired GA-mediated repression of GA3ox2. These data together suggest that YAB1 is involved in the feedback regulation of GA biosynthesis in rice.
17369434	Rice (Oryza sativa) seeds can germinate in the complete absence of oxygen. Under anoxia, the rice coleoptile elongates, reaching a length greater than that of the aerobic one. In this article, we compared and investigated the transcriptome of rice coleoptiles grown under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The results allow drawing a detailed picture of the modulation of the transcripts involved in anaerobic carbohydrate metabolism, suggesting up-regulation of the steps required to produce and metabolize pyruvate and its derivatives. Sugars appear to play a signaling role under anoxia, with several genes indirectly up-regulated by anoxia-driven sugar starvation. Analysis of the effects of anoxia on the expansin gene families revealed that EXPA7 and EXPB12 are likely to be involved in rice coleoptile elongation under anoxia. Genes coding for ethylene response factors and heat shock proteins are among the genes modulated by anoxia in both rice and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Identification of anoxia-induced ethylene response factors is suggestive because genes belonging to this gene family play a crucial role in rice tolerance to submergence, a process closely related to, but independent from, the ability to germinate under anoxia. Genes coding for some enzymes requiring oxygen for their activity are dramatically down-regulated under anoxia, suggesting the existence of an energy-saving strategy in the regulation of gene expression.
17370809	Pheromone-baited traps were used to monitor the movement of the Mexican rice borer, Eoreuma loftini (Dyar) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), through the Texas rice belt from 2000 to 2005. Based on location of discovery in each county and year, the average rate of spread from 1980 to 2005 was 23 km/yr. From 2000 to 2005, the leading edge of the infestation has moved 16.5 km/yr toward Louisiana. The 1.8-fold increase (99% confidence interval) of the area occupied from 2000 to 2005 in the Texas rice belt indicates an expansion of the distribution of E. loftini. If movement continues to occur at similar rates, E. loftini will reach Louisiana by 2008.
17371296	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) transcription factors RF2a and RF2b are bZIP (basic leucine zipper) proteins that interact with, and activate transcription from the RTBV (rice tungro bacilliform virus) promoter. Here we characterize the C-terminal domains of RF2a and RF2b: these domains are rich in glutamine and proline/glutamine, respectively. Affinity pull-down assays demonstrated that the C-terminal domains of RF2a and RF2b can associate to form either homodimers or heterodimers; however, they do not interact with other domains of RF2a or RF2b. Results of in vitro transcription assays using a rice whole-cell extract demonstrate that the C-terminal domains of both RF2a and RF2b activate transcription from the RTBV promoter. In addition, dimerization of the RF2a C-terminal domain is involved in regulating the transcription activation function of RF2a. The predicted helical region within the RF2a C-terminal glutamine-rich domain was determined to be involved in inter-molecular dimerization, and contributed to the regulatory functions of RF2a in these assays.
17372626	The discovery of nucleotide diversity captured as single feature polymorphism (SFP) by using the expression array is a high-throughput and effective method in detecting genome-wide polymorphism. The efficacy of such method was tested in rice, and the results presented in the paper indicate high sensitivity in predicting SFP. The sensitivity of polymorphism detection was further demonstrated by the fact that no biasness was observed in detecting SFP with either single or multiple nucleotide polymorphisms. The high density SFP data that can be generated quite effectively by the current method has promise for high resolution genetic mapping studies, as physical location of features are well-defined on rice genome.
17372628	Genome tiling microarray studies have consistently documented rich transcriptional activity beyond the annotated genes. However, systematic characterization and transcriptional profiling of the putative novel transcripts on the genome scale are still lacking. We report here the identification of 25,352 and 27,744 transcriptionally active regions (TARs) not encoded by annotated exons in the rice (Oryza. sativa) subspecies japonica and indica, respectively. The non-exonic TARs account for approximately two thirds of the total TARs detected by tiling arrays and represent transcripts likely conserved between japonica and indica. Transcription of 21,018 (83%) japonica non-exonic TARs was verified through expression profiling in 10 tissue types using a re-array in which annotated genes and TARs were each represented by five independent probes. Subsequent analyses indicate that about 80% of the japonica TARs that were not assigned to annotated exons can be assigned to various putatively functional or structural elements of the rice genome, including splice variants, uncharacterized portions of incompletely annotated genes, antisense transcripts, duplicated gene fragments, and potential non-coding RNAs. These results provide a systematic characterization of non-exonic transcripts in rice and thus expand the current view of the complexity and dynamics of the rice transcriptome.
17373454	A preliminary interlaboratory study was conducted to evaluate the validity of the modified AOAC method for determination of total dietary fiber by Tada and Innami, in which the 3-step enzymatic digestion process in AOAC Method 991.43 is modified to a 2-step process without pH adjustment. Total dietary fiber contents in 8 representative foodstuffs were measured using both the original AOAC Method 991.43 and the modified method in 6 research facilities in Japan. Repeatability relative standard deviations, reproducibility relative standard deviations, and Horwitz ratio values from the modified method were equivalent to those from AOAC Method 991.43, except in the rice sample. However, this exceptional case shown in the modified method was entirely dissolved by the addition of alpha-amylase stabilizing agents. The modified method, which shortens the process of enzymatic digestion from 3 to 2 steps and in which only reaction temperature is adjusted under the same pH, was found not only to give accurate values comparable to the original method, but also to substantially reduce the labor required by the laboratory staff in the process of routine analysis. This study revealed that the validity of the modified method was further ensured by adding alpha-amylase stabilizing agents to the reaction system.
17375108	To obtain distinct dietary patterns in the third trimester of pregnancy using principal components analysis (PCA); to determine associations with socio-demographic and lifestyle factors. A total of 12 053 pregnant women partaking in a population-based cohort study recorded current frequency of food consumption via questionnaire in 1991-1992. Dietary patterns identified using PCA were related to social and demographic characteristics and lifestyle factors. Five dietary patterns were established and labelled to best describe the types of diet being consumed in pregnancy. The 'health conscious' component described a diet based on salad, fruit, rice, pasta, breakfast cereals, fish, eggs, pulses, fruit juices, white meat and non-white bread. The 'traditional' component loaded highly on all types of vegetables, red meat and poultry. The 'processed' component was associated with high-fat processed foods. The 'confectionery' component was characterized by snack foods with high sugar content and the final 'vegetarian' component loaded highly on meat substitutes, pulses, nuts and herbal tea and high negative loadings were seen with red meat and poultry. There were strong associations between various socio-demographic variables and all dietary components; in particular, a 'health conscious' diet was positively associated with increasing education and age and non-white women. There was a negative association with increased parity, single, non-working women, those who smoked and who were overweight pre-pregnancy. Opposite associations were seen with the 'processed' component. Distinct dietary patterns in pregnancy have been identified. There is clear evidence of social patterning associated with the dietary patterns, these social factors need to be accounted for in future studies using dietary patterns. This study will form the basis for further work investigating pregnancy outcome.
17375279	Hybrid weakness is a reproductive barrier that is found in many plant species. In rice, the hybrid weakness caused by two complementary genes, Hwc1 and Hwc2, has been surveyed intensively. However, their gene products and the molecular mechanism that causes hybrid weakness have remained unknown. We performed linkage analyses of Hwc1, narrowed down the area of interest to 60 kb, and identified eight candidate genes. In the F(2) population, in which both Hwc1 and Hwc2 genes were segregated, plants were separable into four classes according to their respective phenotypes: severe type, semi-severe type, F(1) type, and normal type. Severe type plants show such severe symptoms that they could produce only tiny shoot-like structures; they were unable to generate roots. Genetic analyses using closely linked DNA markers of the two genes showed that the symptoms of the F(2) plants were explainable by the genotypes of Hwc1 and Hwc2. Weakness was observed in plants that have both Hwc1 and Hwc2. In Hwc1 homozygote, the symptoms worsened and severe type or semi-severe type plants appeared. Consequently, Hwc1 should have a gene dosage effect and be a semi-dominant gene. The dosage effect of Hwc2 was recognizable, but it was not so severe as that in Hwc1. These results are useful to elucidate the mechanism that causes the hybrid weakness phenomenon and the role of each causal gene in hybrid weakness.
17375281	In cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare), six-rowed spikes produce three times as many seeds per spike as do two-rowed spikes. The determinant of this trait is the Mendelian gene vrs1, located on chromosome 2H, which is syntenous with rice (Oryza sativa) chromosomes 4 and 7. We exploited barley-rice micro-synteny to increase marker density in the vrs1 region as a prelude to its map-based cloning. The rice genomic sequence, covering a 980 kb contig, identified barley ESTs linked to vrs1. A high level of conservation of gene sequence was obtained between barley chromosome 2H and rice chromosome 4. A total of 22 EST-based STS markers were placed within the target region, and the linear order of these markers in barley and rice was identical. The genetic window containing vrs1 was narrowed from 0.5 to 0.06 cM, which facilitated covering the vrs1 region by a 518 kb barley BAC contig. An analysis of the contig sequence revealed that a rice Vrs1 orthologue is present on chromosome 7, suggesting a transposition of the chromosomal segment containing Vrs1 within barley chromosome 2H. The breakdown of micro-collinearity illustrates the limitations of synteny cloning, and stresses the importance of implementing genomic studies directly in the target species.
17375359	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial leaf blight, one of the most widespread and destructive bacterial diseases in rice. In order to understand the gene of zinc uptake regulator (zur) involved in virulence of the pathogen in rice, we generated a mutant OSZRM by homologous suicide plasmid integration. The mutant failed to grow in NYGB medium supplemented with Zn(2+) or Fe(3+) at a concentration of 500 muM or 6 mM, whereas the wild-type strain grew well at the same conditions. The zur mutant was hypersensitive to hydrogen peroxide and exhibited reduction catalase activity and the production of extracellular polysaccharide (EPS). Interestingly, the mutant showed a reduction in virulence on rice but still kept triggering hypersensitive response (HR) in tobacco. When the mutant was complemented with the zur gene, the response was recovered to wild-type. These results suggested that zur gene is a functional member of the Zur regulator family that controls zinc and iron homeostasis, oxidative stress, and EPS production, which is necessary for virulence in X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
17376046	The presence of oats in gluten-free diet is controversial. The aim of this work is to evaluate if different varieties of oats exert different toxicity in coeliac disease. Three varieties of oats were tested by two in vitro assay based on the known ability of peptic-tryptic digests of coeliac-active proteins to agglutinate K562 cells and to disrupt lysosomes, respectively. Avenins from the Italian variety Astra and the Australian variety Mortlook were much more active than the Australian variety Lampton. Gliadin, digested in the same way, certainly displayed more activity than all three avenins, but rice (var. Roma) did not have measurable activity. The results indicate that some varieties of oats may be potentially harmful to individuals with coeliac disease and therefore should be excluded from the gluten-free diet required to maintain good health in coeliac disease. It is important to realize that constant, small amounts of active proteins in the diet, such as certain avenins, may prevent complete recovery of the intestinal mucosa in this disease.
17376080	The bacterium Burkholderia glumae causes rice grain rot by producing toxoflavin, whose expression is regulated by quorum sensing (QS). We report a major deviation from the current paradigm for the regulation of bacterial polar flagellum genes. The N-octanoyl homoserine lactone (C8-HSL)-deficient mutant of B. glumae is aflagellate and has lost the ability to swim and swarm at 37 degrees C. Mutagenesis of the bacterium with the mini-Tn5rescue identified an IclR-type transcriptional regulator, called QsmR, which is important for flagellum formation. TofR, which is a cognate C8-HSL receptor, activated qsmR expression by binding directly to the qsmR promoter region. From the flagellum gene cluster, we identified flhDC homologues that are directly activated by QsmR. FlhDC in turn activates the expression of genes involved in flagellum biosynthesis, motor functions and chemotaxis in B. glumae. Non-motile qsmR, fliA and flhDC mutants produced toxoflavin, but lost pathogenicity for rice. The unexpected discovery of FlhDC in a polarly flagellate bacterium suggests that exceptions to the typical regulatory mechanisms of flagellum genes exist in Gram-negative bacteria. The finding that functional flagella play critical roles in the pathogenicity of B. glumae suggests that either QS or flagellum formation constitutes a good target for the control of rice grain rot.
17376611	Lipoic acid is an essential disulfide cofactor required for the lipoate-dependent enzymes including pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (KGDH), and glycine cleavage enzymes that function in key metabolic pathways in most prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Lipoic acid is covalently bound to lipoate-dependent enzymes by lipoate-protein ligase or lipoate transferase. Here, we characterized a lipoyl-protein ligase A (OsLPLA) gene of rice. The OsLPLA gene, which encoded 270 amino acids, was located on an approximately 21 Mb of chromosome 8 on the physical map of Oryza sativa Japonica type. OsLPLA transcripts were abundantly expressed in leaves and developing seeds. The OsLPLA gene functionally complemented an Escherichia coli lplA null mutant. Furthermore, the protein expressed from the OsLPLA gene in an E. coli lplA mutant successfully transferred exogenous lipoate to lipoate-dependent enzymes, including the E2 subunits of the PDH, the E2 subunit of KGDH and the H-protein of glycine decarboxylase, confirming that rice OsLPLA successfully catalyzed covalent attachment of lipoate onto lipoate-dependent enzymes.
17378427	An analysis, using microarrays, of gene expression in rice plants infected with Rice dwarf virus revealed significant decreases in levels of expression of genes that are involved in the formation of cell walls, reflecting the stunted growth of diseased plants. The expression of plastid-related genes also was suppressed, as anticipated from the white chlorotic appearance of infected leaves. By contrast, the expression of defense- and stress-related genes was enhanced after viral infection. These results suggest that virus-infected rice plants attempt to survive viral infection and replication by raising the levels of expression of defense- and stress-related genes while suppressing the expression of genes required for the elongation of cells and photosynthesis.
17378431	Isolates of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. trifolii (the clover root-nodule endosymbiont) from the Nile River delta have been found to infect rice roots and colonize the intercellular spaces of the rice roots. Some of these isolates inhibit rice seedling growth but one in particular, R4, has been found in rice roots which develop and grow normally. We present evidence that the induced growth inhibition is due to a toxic accumulation of nitric oxide (NO), from the reduction of nitrate, and suggest that the reason that R4 does not inhibit rice root growth is because it is capable of completing the reduction of NO through to nitrogen gas. Thus, strain R4 is a candidate for engineering into a future biological nitrogen fixation system within these roots.
17379459	High levels of inter-specific diversity are expected due to genetic isolation, the reproductive or geographical barriers, which lead to the accumulation of nucleotide variation. However, high levels of genetic variation are repeatedly observed even within species, notably at loci of the human major histocompatability complex and of plant resistance genes. Are molecular isolations responsible for the high intra-specific variation? To address this issue, we performed a genome-wide survey of the relationship between the possible factors that could cause genetic isolation, and the level of polymorphism, based on two rice genome comparisons. Here, we show that the levels of polymorphism in rice genes are positively correlated with the proportions of non-alignable flanking sequences, and that the correlation is observed even in single-copy genes. The physical locations of the genes were also investigated, and a strong association between the asymmetric architecture of genomes and the levels of polymorphism was revealed. These results suggest that the flank heterogeneity and the asymmetric architecture between genomes serve as isolation mechanisms at the molecular level that result in accumulation of higher genetic variation. This mechanism is of fundamental importance to understand natural genetic variation within species.
17379511	This study was focused on investigating the optimum fluidising velocity during the combustion of rice husk in a bench-scale fluidised bed combustor (ID 210mm) to obtain low carbon ash in the amorphous form. When all other parameters are held constant, the optimum fluidizing velocity aids in almost complete combustion, thereby releasing the entrapped carbon for further conversion. This results in ash with consistently low carbon content (less than 2wt%). The range of fluidising velocities investigated was from as low as 1.5U(mf) to as high as 8U(mf). It was found that the optimum fluidising velocity was approximately 3.3U(mf) as the mixing of rice husk with the bed was good with a high degree of penetration into the sand bed. The resulting ash retained its amorphous form with low residual carbon content (at 2.88wt%) and minimal sand contamination as shown by the X-ray diffraction analysis.
17379695	Rice microarray analysis showed that a number of stress-related genes are induced by external addition of L-ascorbic acid (AsA). The gene designated as AK073843 which is homologous to class capital SHA, Cyrillic chitinase was found to exhibit the highest induction among these genes. However, its crucial residues within the chitinase active site are substituted with other residues, suggesting that the protein has no chitinase activity. The recombinant protein which is encoded by the AK073843 gene produced in Escherichia coli has xylanase inhibitor activity, indicating that the gene encodes a novel rice XIP-type xylanase inhibitor protein (OsXIP). The expression of OsXIP was enhanced not only by exogenous AsA treatment but also by various stresses such as citrate and sodium chloride treatments, and wounding; however, it was not influenced by increasing endogenous AsA content. External AsA treatment caused a significant increase in electrolyte leakage from rice root. These results suggested that OsXIP was induced by stress which is caused by external AsA treatment. Rice XIP-family genes, OsXIP, riceXIP and RIXI, showed differential organ-specific expression. Also, these genes were differentially induced by stress and stress-related phytohormones. The transcripts of OsXIP and riceXIP were undetectable under normal conditions, and were drastically induced by wounding and methyl jasmonate (MeJA) treatment in the root. RIXI was constitutively expressed in the shoot but not induced by wounding and stress-related phytohormones. Thus, XIP-type xylanase inhibitors were suggested to be specialized in their function and involved in defense mechanisms in rice.
17379698	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants with substantially increased Rubisco content were obtained by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation with the rice rbcS sense gene under the control of the rice rbcS promoter. The primary transformants were screened for the ratio of Rubisco to leaf-N content, and the transformants with >120% wild-type levels of Rubisco were selected. In the progeny of the selected lines of the transformants, the mRNA levels of one member of the rbcS gene family were increased from 3.9- to 6.2-fold, whereas those of other members of the rbcS gene family were unchanged. The total levels of rbcS mRNA were increased from 2.1- to 2.8-fold. The levels of rbcL mRNA were increased from 1.2- to 1.9-fold. Rubisco protein content was significantly increased by 30% on a leaf area basis. The ratio of Rubisco-N to leaf-N was also increased by 10-20%, irrespective of N treatment. The specific activity of Rubisco per unit of enzyme protein was not different. However, light-saturated photosynthesis was not enhanced even when the rate was measured at low [CO2] where Rubisco becomes limiting for photosynthesis. Some lines showed lower photosynthesis at high [CO2] (>60 Pa). We conclude that introduction of additional sense rbcS leads to overexpression of rbcS and that this overexpression slightly up-regulates the gene expression of rbcL at the transcript level and enhances the amount of Rubisco holoenzyme. However, overproduction of Rubisco protein does not improve photosynthesis.
17380428	The SNAP25-type proteins belong to the superfamily of the SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors), and function as important components of the vesical trafficking machinery in eukaryotic cells. In this paper, we report the cloning and expression characterization of OsSNAP32 gene, and the subcellular localization of its encoded protein. The OsSNAP32 gene contains five exons and four introns, and is located between RFLP markers C12276S and S1917 on chromosome 2 in rice. The OsSNAP32 has a molecular weight of 31.3 kD, comprises 283 amino acid residues, and contains Qb-SNARE and Qc-SNARE domains in the N- and C-terminal, respectively. Multiple sequence alignment of the SNARE domains indicates that OsSNAP32 protein is homologous to HvSNAP34 and HvSNAP28 (63% and 55% of amino acid identity respectively) from barley. The transient expression method in onion epidermal cells, revealed that OsSNAP32 is located in the plasma membrane, like other SNAP25-type proteins. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR assay showed that the OsSNAP32 is highly expressed in leaves and culms, and low in roots of rice, while hardly detected in immature spikes and flowering spikes. The expression of OsSNAP32 was significantly activated in rice seedlings treated with H2O2, PEG6000, and low temperature or after inoculation with rice blast (Magnaporthe grisea strain Hoku 1). The results suggest that this gene belongs to a novel member of this gene family encoding SNAP25-type proteins, involved in the rice responses to biotic and abiotic stresses.
17380535	Low temperature is one of the important environmental changes that affect plant growth and agricultural production. To investigate the responses of rice to cold stress, changes in protein expression were analyzed using a proteomic approach. Two-week-old rice seedlings were exposed to 5 degrees C for 48 h, then total crude proteins were extracted from leaf blades, leaf sheaths and roots, separated by 2-DE and stained with CBB. Of the 250-400 protein spots from each organ, 39 proteins changed in abundance after cold stress, with 19 proteins increasing, and 20 proteins decreasing. In leaf blades, it was difficult to detect the changes in stress-responsive proteins due to the presence of an abundant protein, ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase large subunit (RuBisCO LSU), which accounted for about 50% of the total proteins. To overcome this problem, an antibody-affinity column was prepared to trap RuBisCO LSU, and the remaining proteins in the flow through from the column were subsequently separated using 2-DE. As a result, slight changes in stress responsive proteins were clearly displayed, and four proteins were newly detected after cold stress. From identified proteins, it was concluded that proteins related to energy metabolism were up-regulated, and defense-related proteins were down-regulated in leaf blades, by cold stress. These results suggest that energy production is activated in the chilling environment; furthermore, stress-related proteins are rapidly up-regulated, while defense-related proteins disappear, under long-term cold stress.
17381741	This study has been aimed (i) to isolate and identify diazotrophs from Korean rice varieties; (ii) to examine the long-term effect of N and compost on the population dynamics of diazotrophs and (iii) to realize the shot-term inoculation effect of these diazotrophs on rice seedlings. Diazotrophic and heterotrophic bacterial numbers were enumerated by most probable number method and the isolates were identified based on morphological, physiological, biochemical and 16s rDNA sequence analysis. Long-term application of fertilizer N with compost enhanced both these numbers in rice plants and its environment. Bacteria were high in numbers when malate and azelaic acids were used as carbon source, but less when sucrose was used as a carbon substrate. The combined application promoted the association of diazotrophic bacteria like Azospirillum spp., Herbaspirillum spp., Burkholderia spp., Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus and Pseudomonas spp. in wetland rice plants. Detection of nifD genes from different diazotrophic isolates indicated their nitrogen fixing ability. Inoculation of a representative isolate from each group onto rice seedlings of the variety IR 36 grown in test tubes indicated the positive effect of these diazotrophs on the growth of rice seedlings though the percentage of N present in the plants did not differ much. Application of compost with fertilizer N promoted the diazotrophic and heterotrophic bacterial numbers and their association with wetland rice and its environment. Compost application in high N fertilized fields would avert the reduction of N(2)-fixing bacterial numbers and their association was beneficial to the growth of rice plants. The inhibitory effect of high N fertilization on diazotrophic bacterial numbers could be reduced by the application of compost and this observation would encourage more usage of organic manure. This study has also thrown light on the wider geographic distribution of G. diazotrophicus with wetland rice in temperate region where sugarcane (from which this bacterium was first reported to be associating and thereon from other plant species) is not cultivated.
17381924	To conduct a needs assessment of all aspects of food provision in a residential home and to evaluate a subsequent nutrition intervention. An intervention study using a before and after design. A participatory approach was adopted and quantitative and qualitative methods used throughout. The intervention involved a revised menu, kitchen equipment, and establishing wholesale shopping and food donations. A residential home for senior citizens in Guyana. Meals at the home were nutritionally inadequate and deeply unpopular with the residents. Intakes of fruits and vegetables were low and the home was heavily reliant on donated soya mince and rice. Meals were served within an eight-hour period to accommodate the staff's hours of work. Cutbacks in the food budget indicated that the financial state of the home explained some of the problems. The intervention was unable to address all problems identified, but led to substantial improvements in the nutritional adequacy of the food provided following the inclusion in the menu of a number of nutrient-dense foods such as chicken liver. The new menu was acceptable to the cooks and largely popular with the residents, although some problems persisted. The results show that improvements in the nutrient profile of the diet could be achieved with a flexible, community-based, participatory approach that addressed all elements of a home's food provision system. The changes also proved largely popular with the residents, thus potentially contributing to their quality of life.
17382356	There has been considerable research progress over the past decade on elucidating biosynthetic pathways for important human health components of crops. This has enabled the use of genetic modification (GM) techniques to develop crop varieties with increased amounts of essential vitamins and minerals, and improved profiles of 'nutraceutical' compounds. Much of the research into vitamins and minerals has focused on generating new varieties of staple crops to improve the diet of populations in developing nations. Of particular note is the development of new rice lines with increased amounts of provitamin A and iron. Research on modifying production of nutraceuticals has generally been aimed at generating new crops for markets in the developed nations, commonly to deliver distinctive cultivars with high consumer appeal. Most progress on nutraceuticals has been made with just a few types of metabolites to date, in particular in the production of novel long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids in oil-seed crops and to increase amounts of flavonoids and carotenoids in tomato and potato. However, given the rapid progress on elucidating plant metabolite biosynthetic pathways, wide-ranging success with metabolic engineering for levels of human health-related compounds in plants would be expected in the near future. A key aspect for future success will be better medical information to guide metabolic engineering endeavors. Although the desired levels of many vitamins are known, detailed information is lacking for most of the nutraceuticals that have attracted much interest over the past few years.
17382540	This work examined 19 carbon samples prepared by acid and thermal activation of various agro-residues viz. bagasse, bagasse flyash, sawdust, wood ash and rice husk ash for color removal from biomethanated distillery effluent. Phosphoric acid carbonized bagasse B (PH) showed the maximum color removal (50%). However, commercial activated carbons AC (ME) and AC (LB) showed better performance of over 80% color removal. Besides color removal, activated carbon treatment also showed reduction in chemical oxygen demand (COD), total organic carbon (TOC), phenol and total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN). The performance was related to the characteristics of the investigated samples. Further, adsorption isotherms for melanoidins, which is the primary coloring compound in distillery spentwash, followed the Langmuir isotherm implying monolayer adsorption.
17383266	To assess the validity and reproducibility of a newly developed, cost-effective, and easy to administer, Web-based food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) for the dietary assessment of adolescents. Cross-sectional validation of a Web-based FFQ, which contained 15 food groups (water; soft drinks, including fruit juice and diet soft drinks; alcoholic beverages; soup; milk and milk products; fruit; sweet and savory snacks/fillings; sauces and fat spreads; breakfast cereals; bread; cheese, fish/eggs/meat; pasta/rice; vegetables; and potatoes). Reference data for validation were 3-day estimated food records. Analyses were done for all participants and for consumers only (consumer in both Web-based FFQ and food record). A selected group of adolescents (12 to 18 years of age, n=104) from participating secondary schools in Ghent, Belgium. For all participants, the measured intakes of water, fruit, breakfast cereals, fish/eggs/meat, pasta/rice, and potatoes were not significantly different between the two methods. The Spearman correlation for all foods was on average 0.38 (ranging from 0.20 for pasta/rice to 0.64 for breakfast cereals). When analyzed for consumers only, the Web-based FFQ showed significantly lower estimates for soft drinks, sweet and savory snacks/fillings, sauces and fat spreads, cheese, pasta/rice, and vegetables. The average Spearman correlation for all foods collectively was 0.30. When reproducibility of the Web-based FFQ was assessed, the average Spearman correlation coefficient for all foods collectively was 0.62. Most questions on the 15 food groups had acceptable reproducibility, whereas validation only showed reliable intakes for water, fruit, bread, and fish/eggs/meat. This Web-based FFQ could be a start for development of dietary assessment methods in public health nutrition contexts.
17383966	Rice growth under aerobic and anaerobic conditions allowed aspects of mitochondrial biogenesis to be identified as dependent on or independent of an oxygen signal. Analysis of transcripts encoding mitochondrial components found that a subset of these genes respond to oxygen (defined as aerobic), whereas others are relatively unaffected by oxygen availability. Mitochondria formed during growth in anaerobic conditions had reduced protein levels of tricarboxylic acid cycle components and cytochrome-containing complexes of the respiratory chain and repressed respiratory functionality. In general, the capacity of the general import pathway was found to be significantly lower in mitochondria isolated from tissue grown under anaerobic conditions, whereas the carrier import pathway capacity was not affected by changes in oxygen availability. Transcript levels of genes encoding components of the protein import apparatus were generally not affected by the absence of oxygen, and their protein abundance was severalfold higher in mitochondria isolated from anaerobically grown tissue. However, both transcript and protein abundances of the subunits of the mitochondrial processing peptidase, which in plants is integrated into the cytochrome bc(1) complex, were repressed under anaerobic conditions. Therefore, in this system, an increase in import capacity is correlated with an increase in the abundance of the cytochrome bc(1) complex, which is ultimately dependent on the presence of oxygen, providing a link between the respiratory chain and protein import apparatus.
17383991	Auxin transport plays a significant role modifying plant growth and development in response to environmental signals such as light and gravity. However, the effect of humidity on auxin transport is rarely documented. It is shown here that the transport of labelled indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) from the shoot to the root is accelerated in rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica cv. IR8) seedlings grown under saturated humidity (SH-seedlings) compared with plants grown under normal humidity (NH-seedlings). The development of lateral roots in SH-seedlings was greatly enhanced compared with NH-seedlings. Removal of the shoot from SH-seedlings reduced the density of lateral roots, and the application of IAA to the cut stem restored the lateral root density, while the decapitation of NH-seedlings did not alter lateral root development. Phloem-based auxin transport appeared responsible for enhanced lateral root formation in SH-seedlings since (i) the rate of IAA transport from the shoot to the root tip was greater than 3.5 cm h-1 and (ii) naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA)-induced reduction of polar auxin transport in the shoot did not influence the number of lateral roots in SH-seedlings. It is proposed that high humidity conditions accelerate the phloem-based transport of IAA from the leaf to the root, resulting in an increase in the number of lateral roots.
17384160	To elucidate the effect of high temperature on grain-filling metabolism, developing rice (Oryza sativa) "Nipponbare" caryopses were exposed to high temperature (33 degrees C/28 degrees C) or control temperature (25 degrees C/20 degrees C) during the milky stage. Comprehensive gene screening by a 22-K DNA microarray and differential hybridization, followed by expression analysis by semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR, revealed that several starch synthesis-related genes, such as granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) and branching enzymes, especially BEIIb, and a cytosolic pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase gene were down-regulated by high temperature, whereas those for starch-consuming alpha-amylases and heat shock proteins were up-regulated. Biochemical analyses of starch showed that the high temperature-ripened grains contained decreased levels of amylose and long chain-enriched amylopectin, which might be attributed to the repressed expression of GBSSI and BEIIb, respectively. SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis of storage proteins revealed decreased accumulation of 13-kD prolamin, which is consistent with the diminished expression of prolamin genes under elevated temperature. Ripening under high temperature resulted in the occurrence of grains with various degrees of chalky appearance and decreased weight. Among them, severely chalky grains contained amylopectin enriched particularly with long chains compared to slightly chalky grains, suggesting that such alterations of amylopectin structure might be involved in grain chalkiness. However, among high temperature-tolerant and sensitive cultivars, alterations of neither amylopectin chain-length distribution nor amylose content were correlated to the degree of grain chalkiness, but rather seemed to be correlated to grain weight decrease, implying different underlying mechanisms for the varietal difference in grain chalkiness. The possible metabolic pathways affected by high temperature and their relevance to grain chalkiness are discussed.
17385511	The entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria brongniartii (Saccardo) Petch has emerged as a promising biological control agent for soil-inhabiting scarabs including Holotrichia serrata F., a serious constraint to the production of rainy season (July-October) crops in India. Use of these fungi in practical biocontrol programmes will require production of large amounts of inoculum. In the present study, a two-stage system of mass production method was used to produce infective propagules in which fungal inoculum of mycelium or hyphal bodies are produced in liquid culture and transferred to solid substrates. The effects of various solid substrate inocula and other production parameters were evaluated for their suitability to virulent B. brongniartii isolates production. The results showed that the moisture content of the solid media is the most important factor for the growth and nutrient consumption of the fungi. Solid substrate rice was most suitable for growth and sporulation of B. brongniartii as compared to other solid substrates tested. The maximum conidia production reached >1 x 10(9) conidia/g rice substrate with 50% moisture content after 14 days incubation at 25 degrees C. There was a general decline in the number of conidia viability with time of storage at--20, 4 and 25 degrees C, with the highest decline occurring from 90-120 days. The maximum conidial viability was reduced with time and at 25 degrees C, except for conidia stored at--20 degrees C. Fresh fungus-colonized rice grains (FCRG) obtained from B. brongniartii resulted in high mortality (> 80%) to third-instar H. serrata larvae. These results show that rice grains has potential as substrate for production of B. brongniartii, suitable rice formulation for soil application and could be a feasible method to produce conidia in a village co-operative scenario in India.
17385515	Brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens Stal., (BPH) was the most devastating insect pest on rice in many partS of Asia. The Outbreak of BPH? which is resistant to many synthetic insecticides can cause total rice crop loss. This research was done to evaluate the efficiency of mangostin from the pericarp of mangosteen fruit extract (Garcina mangostana L.) as the alternative control of BPH. The pericarp of mangosteen fruit was extracted by Soxhlet apparatus using ethanol as a solvent and purified by chromatography method then qualified structure by 2D-NMR, MS and IR. The crude extracts contained mangostin ca. 2.956% w/w. This extract was trailed by the topical sprayer method with 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th nymph and adult BPH shows toxicity in term of LC50 ca. 1.39, 2.26, 5.44, 4.49, 4.03 and 3.84 % w/v at 24 h exposure, respectively. The in vitro enzyme activity from BPH survived after 24 h exposure and showed to inhibit the carboxylesterase (CarE), acetylchoinesterase (AchE) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activities which the correction factors of CarE, AchE and GST indicated ca. 1.21-2.05 fold, 1.24-2.50 fold and 1.01-3.34 fold, respectively. Moreover, the data shows that the carboxylesterase may play an important role to detoxify this extract. The results suggested that pericarp of mangosteen fruit extract which have mangostin as active ingredient compound shows mechanism as the inhibitor of detoxification enzymes. Thus, it is likely to be uses this extract as an insecticide alternative to the control of BPH.
17385804	An analytical procedure using accelerated solvent extraction and gas chromatography with an electron capture detector has been optimized to simultaneously determine the residue of two insecticides (diazinon and EPN) and one fungicide (isoprothiolane) in polished rice and was confirmed by GC-mass spectrometry. Several parameters, including temperature, pressure, solvent ratio, cell size and cell cycle, were thoroughly investigated to find the optimal extraction conditions. The average recoveries of the three pesticides were between 82.7 and 126.4% at spiking levels of 0.1 and 0.5 ppm. The relative standard deviations were less than 7% for all of the recovery tests. The optimum accelerated solvent extraction operating conditions were 100 degrees C, 1500 atm, acetone-n-hexane (20:80 v/v) as the extraction solvent, two cycles, and a cell size of 33 ml. The total extraction time was approximately 20 min. The optimized procedure has also been applied to the determination of diazinon, isoprothiolane and EPN in real rice samples. In conclusion, accelerated solvent extraction was used for the first time for the analysis of diazinon, isoprothiolane and EPN in polished rice and offers the possibility of a fast and simple process for obtaining a quantitative extraction of the studied pesticides.
17385905	Salinity stress is a major abiotic stress that limits agriculture productivity worldwide. Rice is a model plant of monocotyledons, including cereal crops. Studies have suggested a critical role of protein phosphorylation in salt stress response in plants. However, the phosphoproteome in rice, particularly under salinity stress, has not been well studied. Here, we use Pro-Q Diamond Phosphoprotein Stain to study rice phosphoproteome differential expression under salt stress. Seventeen differentially upregulated and 11 differentially downregulated putative phosphoproteins have been identified. Further analyses indicate that 10 of the 17 upregulated proteins are probably upregulated at post-translational level instead of the protein concentration. Meanwhile, we have identified 31 salt stress differentially regulated proteins using SYPRO Ruby stain. While eight of them are known salt stress response proteins, the majority has not been reported in the literature. Our studies have provided valuable new insight into plant response to salinity stress.
17386450	The biosorption of copper(II), lead(II), iron(III) and cobalt(II) on Bacillus sphaericus-loaded Diaion SP-850 resin for preconcentration-separation of them have been investigated. The sorbed analytes on biosorbent were eluted by using 1 mol L(-1) HCl and analytes were determined by flame atomic absorption spectrometry. The influences of analytical parameters including amounts of pH, B. sphaericus, sample volume etc. on the quantitative recoveries of analytes were investigated. The effects of alkaline, earth alkaline ions and some metal ions on the retentions of the analytes on the biosorbent were also examined. Separation and preconcentration of Cu, Pb, Fe and Co ions from real samples was achieved quantitatively. The detection limits by 3 sigma for analyte ions were in the range of 0.20-0.75 microg L(-1) for aqueous samples and in the range of 2.5-9.4 ng g(-1) for solid samples. The validation of the procedure was performed by the analysis of the certified standard reference materials (NRCC-SLRS 4 Riverine Water, SRM 2711 Montana soil and GBW 07605 Tea). The presented method was applied to the determination of analyte ions in green tea, black tea, cultivated mushroom, boiled wheat, rice and soil samples with successfully results.
17387504	Recent reports of cases of malignant mesothelioma (MM) in "non-traditional" areas of employment are an indication of the numerous occasions in which exposure to asbestos has occurred in the workplace. We describe an unusual case of occupational exposure to asbestos to stress the importance of careful history taking when assessing a patient's work history, especially in generic occupations in which there is apparently no exposure to asbestos. Malignant mesothelioma was diagnosed in a woman worker employed in a factory making rice starch. She had worked in the storehouse of the factory for approximately 40 years. From circumstantial interviews with relatives and workmates, it emerged that her job involved retrieving, for re-use, the jute sacks in which the rice was transported. More than one source remembered distinctly that some of the sacks had "Asbestos" written on the outside. This case provides further confirmation of the importance of careful history taking among workers with mesothelioma to avoid failing to diagnose occupational disease. It also highlights the risk of asbestos exposure represented by recycling asbestos-contaminated sacks in both occupational and non-occupational settings.
17387627	Earlier we have shown the role of glyoxalase overexpression in conferring salinity tolerance in transgenic tobacco. We now demonstrate the feasibility of same in a crop like rice through overproduction of glyoxalase II. The rice glyoxalase II was cloned in pCAMBIA1304 and transformed into rice (Oryza sativa cv PB1) via Agrobacterium. The transgenic plants showed higher constitutive activity of glyoxalase II that increased further upon salt stress, reflecting the upregulation of endogenous glyoxalase II. The transgenic rice showed higher tolerance to toxic concentrations of methylglyoxal (MG) and NaCl. Compared with non-transgenics, transgenic plants at the T1 generation exhibited sustained growth and more favorable ion balance under salt stress conditions.
17388291	The reaction kinetics for the thermal decomposition of monomethylhydrazine (MMH) was studied with quantum Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (QRRK) theory and a master equation analysis for pressure falloff. Thermochemical properties were determined by ab initio and density functional calculations. The entropies, S degrees (298.15 K), and heat capacities, Cp degrees (T) (0 < or = T/K < or = 1500), from vibrational, translational, and external rotational contributions were calculated using statistical mechanics based on the vibrational frequencies and structures obtained from the density functional study. Potential barriers for internal rotations were calculated at the B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level, and hindered rotational contributions to S degrees (298.15 K) and Cp degrees (T) were calculated by solving the Schrdinger equation with free rotor wave functions, and the partition coefficients were treated by direct integration over energy levels of the internal rotation potentials. Enthalpies of formation, DeltafH degrees (298.15 K), for the parent MMH (CH3NHNH2) and its corresponding radicals CH3N*NH2, CH3NHN*H, and C*H2NHNH2 were determined to be 21.6, 48.5, 51.1, and 62.8 kcal mol(-1) by use of isodesmic reaction analysis and various ab initio methods. The kinetic analysis of the thermal decomposition, abstraction, and substitution reactions of MMH was performed at the CBS-QB3 level, with those of N-N and C-N bond scissions determined by high level CCSD(T)/6-311++G(3df,2p)//MPWB1K/6-31+G(d,p) calculations. Rate constants of thermally activated MMH to dissociation products were calculated as functions of pressure and temperature. An elementary reaction mechanism based on the calculated rate constants, thermochemical properties, and literature data was developed to model the experimental data on the overall MMH thermal decomposition rate. The reactions of N-N and C-N bond scission were found to be the major reaction paths for the modeling of MMH homogeneous decomposition at atmospheric conditions.
17388302	The reaction of CF2(a3B1) with NO(X2Pi) was theoretically investigated using the B3LYP, MP2, CCSD(T), G2M, CASSCF, and CASPT2 quantum chemical methods with various basis sets including 6-31G(d), 6-311G(d), 6-311+G(3df), cc-pVDZ, and cc-pVTZ. In agreement with the experimental kinetic data, the CF2(a3B1)+NO(X2Pi) reaction is found to proceed via a fast, barrier-free combination. This process, occurring on the doublet potential energy surface, leads to the electronically excited adduct F2C-NO(22A''), which readily undergoes a surface hopping to the 12A' electronic surface, with a Landau-Zener transition probability estimated to be close to 90% per C-N vibration. The metastable adduct F2C-NO(12A') can then either spontaneously decompose into CF2(X1A1)+NO(X2Pi) in a direct chemical quenching mechanism or relax to its ground-state equilibrium structure F2CNO(X2A'). The product distribution resulting from the latter, chemically activated intermediate was evaluated by solution of the master equation (ME), under different reaction conditions, using the exact stochastic simulation method; microcanonical rate constants were computed using Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory, based on the potential energy surfaces (PESs) constructed using both G2M and CASPT2 methods. The RRKM/ME analysis reveals that the hot F2CNO(X2A') rapidly fragments almost exclusively to the same products as above, CF2(X1A1)+NO(X2Pi), which amounts to an indirect chemical quenching mechanism. The reaction on the quartet PES is unlikely to be significant except at very high temperatures. The high crossing probability (up to 90%) between the two "avoided" doublet PESs points out the inherent difficulty in treating chemically activated reactions with fast-moving nuclei within the Born-Oppenheimer approximation.
17388792	Statistical methods established for the genetic analysis of quantitative traits can be applied to gene expression data. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis can associate the expression of genes or groups of genes with particular genomic regions, and thereby identify regions regulating gene expression. A segregating population of 41 doubled haploid (DH) lines from the hard red spring wheat cross RL4452 x 'AC Domain' was used to map expression level polymorphisms. This population had previously been mapped with microsatellites, and includes a full QTL analysis for agronomic and seed quality traits. Expression analysis on mRNA from developing seed grown in two field locations was conducted on 39 of the 41 DH lines using the Affymetrix GeneChip Wheat Genome Array. Analysis of the hybridization intensity identified 1484 Affymetrix probe sets in the first location and 10,280 probe sets in the second location, where the hybridization intensity varied significantly between genotypes of the population. A common set of 1455 probe sets differing in intensity between genotypes in both locations was used for mapping, and 542 QTLs were identified that each mapped to a single chromosome interval, illustrating that major gene expression QTLs could be found in wheat. Genomic regions corresponding to multiple gene expression QTLs were identified. Comparison of expression mapping data with physical mapping of wheat expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences using rice synteny, as well as logarithm of odds (LOD) score analysis, showed that both cis- and trans-acting expression QTLs were present. Chromosomes 1D and 4B may contain significant trans-regulatory regions in this population.
17388894	Enzymatic reduction of arsenate to arsenite is the first step in arsenate metabolism in all organisms studied. The rice genome contains two ACR2-like genes, OsACR2.1 and OsACR2.2, which may be involved in regulating arsenic metabolism in rice. Here, we cloned both OsACR2 genes and expressed them in an Escherichia coli strain in which the arsC gene was deleted and in a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) strain with a disrupted ACR2 gene. OsACR2.1 complemented the arsenate hypersensitive phenotype of E. coli and yeast. OsACR2.2 showed much less ability to complement. The gene products were purified and demonstrated to reduce arsenate to arsenite in vitro, and both exhibited phosphatase activity. In agreement with the complementation results, OsACR2.1 exhibited higher reductase activity than OsACR2.2. Mutagenesis of cysteine residues in the putative active site HC(X)(5)R motif led to nearly complete loss of both phosphatase and arsenate reductase activities. In planta expression of OsACR2.1 increased dramatically after exposure to arsenate. OsACR2.2 was observed only in roots following arsenate exposure, and its expression was less than OsACR2.1.
17389586	The present study supports the view that the retinoblastoma functions are shared by two distinct retinoblastoma-related (RBR) protein subfamilies in the monocot cereal species, whereas dicot plants have only a single RBR protein. Genes encoding RBR proteins were identified and characterized in alfalfa (Medicago sativa), rice (Oryza sativa), and wheat (Triticum aestivum). The alfalfa MsRBR gene encodes a new member of the dicot RBR proteins (subfamily A). A comparison was made of two rice genes, OsRBR1 (subfamily B) and OsRBR2 (subfamily C), which exhibit differences in exon-intron organization and share only 52% amino acid sequence identity. The plant RBR proteins can be categorized into three distinct subfamilies, in which the similarity between members is greater than the similarity to other RBR proteins from the same species. Comparison of the transcript levels in various tissues revealed that the expression of the OsRBR1 gene was high in embryos or cultured cells and gradually decreased from the basal region to the tip of the leaves. The OsRBR2 gene displayed more transcripts in differentiated tissues, such as leaves and roots. In contrast, the mRNA level of the MsRBR gene did not differ significantly in either mature leaves or cultured cells. The results of yeast two-hybrid pairwise interaction assays demonstrated differences between the rice RBR variants in the interactions with the phosphatase 2A B'' regulatory subunit and an unknown protein. The in silico and functional data presented in this work highlight considerable differences between dicot and monocot species in the retinoblastoma regulatory pathways and permit an improved classification of RBR proteins in higher plants.
17390108	It is well known that abscisic acid (ABA) antagonizes gibberellin (GA)-promoted seed germination. Recent circumstantial evidence suggests that salicylic acid (SA) also inhibits seed germination in maize and Arabidopsis. Our study shows that SA blocks barley seed germination in a dosage dependent manner. As an initial effort to addressing the mechanism controlling the crosstalk of SA, GA and ABA signaling in barley, we studied the regulation of alpha-amylases by SA and a WRKY gene whose expression is modulated by these hormones. Assays of alpha-amylase activity reveal that GA-induced alpha-amylase production in aleurone cells is inhibited by bioactive SA, but not its analogs, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid. This inhibitory effect is unlikely due to repressing alpha-amylase secretion or inhibiting alpha-amylase enzyme activities. Northern blot analyses indicate that SA suppresses GA-induced expression of a barley low pI alpha-amylase gene (Amy32b). Because our previous data indicate that ABA-inducible and GA-suppressible WRKY genes inhibit the expression of alpha-amylase genes in rice, we studied the steady state mRNA levels of a barley WRKY gene, HvWRKY38. The expression of HvWRKY38 in barley aleurone cells is down-regulated by GA, but up-regulated by SA and ABA. However, the regulation of HvWRKY38 by SA appears to be different from that of ABA in term of the kinetics and levels of induction. Over-expression of HvWRKY38 in aleurone cells by particle bombardment blocks GA induction of the Amy32b promoter reporter construct (Amy32b-GUS). Therefore, HvWRKY38 might serve as a converging node of SA and ABA signal pathways involved in suppressing GA-induced seed germination.
17390679	Cadmium and arsenic in rice and flour was determined by microware digestion and direct digestion with electrothermal board. Mastering the characters of the pre-disposal mode for these samples, and depending on the phenomena during the experiment and the results determined by the machine, the authors can analyse the merit and disadvantage of the different digestion mode to find out the most excellent conditions and methods for experiment, then give out reasonable and applicable method based on unsuccessful experiments, analyse the reasons for unsuccessful experiments, and perfect two digestion methods which the authors used to determine cadmium and arsenic.
17390826	Metam-sodium is a soil fumigant with herbicidal properties. A field experiment was conducted in 2000 at Copiano (Pavia, Italy) to determine the efficacy of three rates of metam-sodium (300, 450 and 600 l/ha) at three different planting times (5, 12 and 18 days after chemical treatments) for the control of weeds in rice cultivation. The study mainly focused on the control of red rice (Oryza sativa var. selvatica), a weed which is worldwide distributed in rice fields and difficult to eradicate Test design was a split-plot with four replications. The main plot size was 13, 5 by 15 m and the subplot size was 13, 5 by 5 m. The chemical treatments were carried out as pre-sowing. Two days after chemical treatments, all field plots were flooded with 10 cm of water as practiced locally. An early variety of rice (Loto) was sown at 150 kg/ha. Weed control was visually evaluated as a percentage of ground covering by all weeds and by each weed individually at three, four and five weeks after treatments. Observations were made also on rice selectivity, and rice grain yield was assessed at the end. Metam-sodium did not injure the rice plants. Metam-sodium at 450 l/ha controlled 100%, 97% and 92% of red rice at the first, second and third observations, respectively. Good results were also obtained with metam-sodium at 300 and 600 l/ha, which controlled 94 to 82% of red rice during the season. Echinochloa crus-galli was better controlled with the higher rates of metam-sodium, particularly in the early part of the season. Metam-sodium did not show enough efficacy in this study against Heteranthera reniformis, Bulboschoenus maritimus and Lindernia spp. The best rice grain yield was obtained with all rates of metam-sodium, when rice was sown 5 days after treatment.
17390876	There were some plant diseases on potato, wheat, corn, bean and animal diseases such as feed refusal, weight loss, death of cattle and sheep as well as chicken mortality in northwest Iran. Infected plants were collected and cultured in PDA as common medium and Peptone PCNB Agar (PPA) as selective medium for Fusarium species after surface sterilization with sodium hypochlorite. Several Fusarium species were isolated from samples counting potato tubers, wheat, corn, plant residues and animal feeds in the fields and storages. Actually, Fusarium species were the major pathogens causing significant diseases on potato, bean, wheat, corn, rice and alfalfa as the key human food and animal feed in that areas. Study showed most plant and animal diseases especially chickens mortality were attributed to feeding infected plant straw and contaminated feeds in considered areas. Mycotoxin producing species including F. solani, F. oxysporum, F. graminearum, F. moniliformei, F. sambutinum, F. culmorum and F. equiseti were dominant recognized isolates. The common Fusarium mycotoxins such as zearalenone, moniliformin and fusaric acid have been also discovered from these species. The results put emphasis that Fusarium contamination of feeds or foods can be capable of the harmful consequences on animal and human health.
17391364	Pantoea agglomerans is characterized by the formation of multicellular symplasmata. One unanswered question regarding this bacterium is how these structures are formed. In this study, the rice diazotrophic endophyte P. agglomerans YS19 was selected for exploration of this theme. YS19 was labeled with green fluorescent protein and the resulting recombinant YS19::gfp was observed to grow only slightly more slowly (a decrease of 5.5%) than the wild-type strain, and to show high GFP label stability (label loss rate 8.9218 x 10(-6) per generation, nearly reaching the generally accepted spontaneous mutation rate for most bacteria). YS19::gfp resembled the wild-type YS19 in symplasmata formation and growth profiles. Based on associated cultivation of both strains by mixing their individually cultivated single cells, symplasmata were formed and composed of both YS19::gfp and YS19, suggesting that YS19 formed symplasmata via aggregation, not proliferation, of the original single cells.
17391688	Iron and 4-(methylamino)benzoic acid have been successfully incorporated into silica extracted from rice husk. The silica/Fe/amine complex, RH-Fe(5% amine), showed a ca. 24% increase in specific surface area compared to RH-Fe. This increase was attributed to the templated formation of regular pores. The XRD showed the RH-Fe(5% amine) to be amorphous. The Friedel-Crafts benzylation reaction with toluene using RH-Fe(5% amine) showed a drastic reduction in the di-substituted products to ca. 1.0%.
17391694	Beauveria bassiana is considered a virulent pathogen against the banana weevil Cosmopolites sordidus. However, current field application techniques for effective control against this pest remain a limitation and an alternative method for effective field application needs to be investigated. Three screenhouse experiments were conducted to determine the ability of B. bassiana to form an endophytic relationship with tissue culture banana (Musa spp.) plants and to evaluate the plants for possible harmful effects resulting from this relationship. Three Ugandan strains of B. bassiana (G41, S204 and WA) were applied by dipping the roots and rhizome in a conidial suspension, by injecting a conidial suspension into the plant rhizome and by growing the plants in sterile soil mixed with B. bassiana-colonized rice substrate. Four weeks after inoculation, plant growth parameters were determined and plant tissue colonization assessed through re-isolation of B. bassiana. All B. bassiana strains were able to colonize banana plant roots, rhizomes and pseudostem bases. Dipping plants in a conidial suspension achieved the highest colonization with no negative effect on plant growth or survival. Beauveria bassiana strain G41 was the best colonizer (up to 68%, 79% and 41% in roots, rhizome and pseudostem base, respectively) when plants were dipped. This study demonstrated that, depending on strain and inoculation method, B. bassiana can form an endophytic relationship with tissue culture banana plants, causing no harmful effects and might provide an alternative method for biological control of C. sordidus.
17392068	Food culture is most influenced by the locality of its origin, which will have been one of food acquisition and processing by various means. It is generally agreed, and is the basis of much United Nations, especially Food and Agriculture Organisation strategic development policy, that successful agriculture, horticulture and aquaculture along with fishing, underpin economically viable and healthy communities with their various food cultures. We also know that this must be in tandem with maternal literacy and operational health care systems. These elements are best represented on a regional basis. There is a growing consumer interest in knowing where one's food comes from as a measure of "food integrity". However, food production alone can be a precarious business and relate to a lesser or greater extent to local food culture and to trade, which may be complementary or at-odds with each other. Likewise, the local food culture may have its strengths and weaknesses as far as its ability to meet nutritional and health needs is concerned. Local food production may be restricted because of geographical or socio-economic conditions which preclude food diversity, although this may be compensated for by trade. Where food adequacy and diversity is compromised, and soils poor, various macronutrient, micronutrient (from animals and plants) and phytonutrient (nutritionally-advantageous food component from plants) deficiencies may be in evidence. These food system problems may be intertwined with food culture--for example, "rice-based and water-soluble vitamin poor"; "few animal-derived foods like meat, fish, eggs and milk with associated low calcium, vitamin D, Vitamin B12 and long chain n-3 fatty acid intakes"; "low fruit and vegetable intake with limited carotenoids and other phytonutrients". Geo-satellite surveillance and mapping as identifying such "hot spots": for regional food problems, as well as hot spots where most of the world's biodiversity is found (1.4 % of land on earth). On the other hand, regional food culture can confer considerable advantage for health and economic development, but does not necessarily do so. The challenge is to respect and retain traditional food knowledge and sustainable food systems, with good governance for food security. There has been a recent awakening of interest and concern about the lack of documentation of traditional and indigenous food cultures which are important not only for their own sake, but for the legacy of food knowledge which they can confer on future generations, provided they are not lost. Hence, the value of a special focus on African food cultures (www.healthyeatingclub.org/Africa), including Rift and Nile Valleys and North West African foods, which are the cradles of human food systems and habits. This is the case too with indigenous foods and food cultures (whether hunter-gatherer or subsistence agriculture); with relatively long-living food cultures in North East Asia, with food cultural distinction and fusion (FHILL and SENECA studies) and with migratory Food Habits. By and large, there is a remarkable resilience and ingenuity of people and their food systems, but monoculture and lack of diversity encourage food system failure.
17392074	Cratoxylum formosum Dyer is consumed throughout the year as food and medicine in Thailand. It contains large amounts of chlorogenic acid and quinic acid derivatives. The antioxidative activity of the extract was studied in refined soybean oil coating on rice crackers without any seasoning. They were stored in accelerated oxidation conditions at 40oC, 80% relative humidity (RH) in the dark for 18 days. The oxidative state of each sample was monitored by analyzing of the peroxide value (PV) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) as well as by odor analysis by quantitative descriptive analysis (QDA). The C. formosum extract was more effective than alpha-tocopherol due to metal ions present in the crackers, which resulted in alpha-tocopherol being less effective as an antioxidant. Sensory odor attributes of rice crackers were related more closely to TBARS than to PV values by linear regression analysis. The present study indicated that C. formosum extract was a promising source of a natural food antioxidant and was effective in inhibiting lipid oxidation in rice crackers.
17392078	Poverty persists at an alarming level in Bangladesh. To reduce extreme poverty and create the foundation for a sustainable livelihood change, BRAC undertook a targeted programme since 2002 named, Challenging the Frontiers of Poverty Reduction/Targeting the Ultra Poor (CFPR/TUP). To investigate the impact of the CFPR/TUP programme on food and energy consumption. Two cross sectional surveys on food consumption were conducted, a pre-intervention survey in 2002 and a post-intervention survey in 2004 covering 180 intervention and 193 non-intervention households. Three days' recall method was administrated in both the survey rounds. The baseline food consumption survey showed an inadequate food intake in all households, which did not differ between the two groups. At post-intervention, the quality and quantity of food intake improved significantly in the intervention households as compared to baseline. In this group, the consumption of various food items such as rice, pulse, vegetables, fish, fruit, milk and egg showed significant improvement (p<0.001), particularly, the level of fish consumption doubled in intervention households while in control households it remained almost unchanged (14 g/day to 27 g/day for intervention vs. 11 g/day to 13 g/day for control). Energy intake increased from 1750+/-650 Kcal/day to 2138+/-704 Kcal/day in intervention households (p<0.001), whereas no significant change was observed in control households. Percentages of energy from cereals decreased from 85% to 78% in intervention households (p<0.001) while it remained unchanged in control households. CFPR/TUP programme seems to have direct impact on ultra poor family's ability to significantly increase consumption of food and energy.
17392118	Angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) plays a crucial role in the regulation of blood pressure as well as cardiovascular function. ACE catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to vasoconstrictor angiotensin II, and also inactivates the antihypertensive vasodilator bradykinin. Inhibition of ACE mainly results an overall antihypertensive effect. Food protein-derived peptides can have ACE-inhibiting properties and thus may be used as a novel functional food for preventing hypertension as well as for therapeutic purposes. In the present study, rice protein was hydrolyzed by protease Alcalase for 2 h and the resulted hydrolysate was determined for ACE inhibitory activity in vitro. The antihypertensive effect of rice protein hydrolysate was also investigated in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). The Alcalase-generated hydrolysate showed strong in vitro ACE inhibitory activity with the IC50 value of 0.14 mg/ml. A significant decrease in systolic blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats was observed following single oral administration of this hydrolysate at a dose of 600 mg/kg of body weight. A potent ACE inhibitory peptide with the amino acid sequence of Thr-Gln-Val-Tyr (IC50, 18.2 microM) was isolated and identified from the hydrolysate. Single oral administration of Thr-Gln-Val-Tyr at a dose of 30 mg/kg of body weight also significantly decreased blood pressure in SHR. These results suggest that in vitro ACE inhibitory activity and in vivo antihypertensive activity could be generated from rice protein by enzymatic hydrolysis. The rice protein hydrolysate prepared with Alcalase might be utilized to develop physiologically functional food with antihypertensive activity.
17392119	Angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory peptide has good effect on blood pressure regulation. Therefore, research to find and develop safer, effective and economical ACE inhibitors is necessary for the prevention and remedy of hypertension. So food-derived ACE inhibitory peptides isolated from food or from enzymatic digestion of food proteins are the safe and efficient substitution for human health. To investigate the effect of rice dreg enzymatic hydrolysates as an anti-hypertensive in vivo with spontaneous hypertension rats (SHRs). The once-oral administration experiments with rice dreg hydrolysates peptide (RDHP) in different doses were conducted using 6 weeks old spontaneous hypertension rats as the test model. Twenty five SHRs were randomized into five groups according to blood-pressure level. The group A is blank control group, the group B positive control group (Captopril), the group C (1.0 mg/kg), the group D (RDHP 10 mg/kg) and group E (RDHP 50 mg/kg). The administration approach is to fill in stomach by mouth. The blood pressure value was observed for each group. The long term oral administration design was conducted for one month. Twenty four SHRs were randomized into 3 groups. The first group is the blank control, the second group is low dose (RDHP 10 mg/kg) and the third group is high dose (RDHP 20 mg/kg). In administration period, blood pressure was measured for once a week. The once-oral administration animal experiments showed that the blood pressure of SHR drop was 11 mmHg, 17 mmHg, 26.00 mmHg, 17 mmHg at a dosage of 1 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg hydrolysates and 1 mg/kg captopril, respectively, after 1h administration. The results of long-term oral administration indicated that the blood pressure drop was 17 mmHg, 26 mmHg in 10 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg, respectively after 30 days administration. RDHP not only promoted the growth of SHR, but also had no adverse effect on heart rate. The present study indicated the inhibitory peptides from rice dreg hydrolysate had significant antihypertensive action and no other side effects by oral administration in SHR.
17392122	Black rice and its pigment fraction have shown anti-atherogenic activities in several animal models, but whether their beneficial effects will recur in humans remains unknown. The aim of the present study is to investigate the influence of black rice pigment fraction (BRF) supplementation on selected cardiovascular risk factors in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). Sixty patients with CHD aged 45-75 years were recruited from the Second Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University in Guangzhou, China and randomly divided into two groups. In the test group, the diet was supplemented with 10 grams of BRF derived from black rice for 6 months; While in the placebo group, the diet was supplemented with 10 grams of white rice pigment fraction (WRF) derived from white rice. At baseline, plasma antioxidant status and the levels of inflammatory biomarkers and other measured variables were similar between two groups. After 6 months' intervention, compared to WRF supplementation, BRF supplementation greatly enhanced plasma total antioxidant capacity (TAC) (p=0.003), significantly reduce plasma levels of soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) (p=0.03), soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) (p=0.002) and high sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) (p=0.002) in the test group. No significant changes were observed in plasma total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD) activity, lipids level and carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT) between two groups. These results may suggest that BRF could exert cardioprotective effects on patients with CHD by improving plasma antioxidant status and inhibiting inflammatory factors.
17392330	The database of poplar transcription factors (DPTF) is a plant transcription factor (TF) database containing 2576 putative poplar TFs distributed in 64 families. These TFs were identified from both computational prediction and manual curation. We have provided extensive annotations including sequence features, functional domains, GO assignment and expression evidence for all TFs. In addition, DPTF contains cross-links to the Arabidopsis and rice transcription factor databases making it a unique resource for genome-scale comparative studies of transcriptional regulation in model plants. Availiability: DPTF is available at http://dptf.cbi.pku.edu.cn.
17392699	To identify and address caregivers' perceived barriers to compliance with dietary guidelines for children. Information on family socioeconomic status, child's consumption frequency of nine food items, and caregiver's attitudes and behaviors regarding meal preparation were collected through structured interviews with caregivers (70 mothers, four grandmothers and one father) of first-grade children (39 boys and 36 girls) living in five barangays of New Corella, Mindanao Island, Philippines. If the child's intake did not reach the level recommended in the dietary guidelines, the reasons were investigated from the economic, social, cultural and environmental viewpoints. Their diet relied heavily on rice and others. The percentages of children who did not consume each of the food items on a daily basis were 77.3% for eggs; 57.3% for milk; 41.3% for fish/meat/poultry/dried beans/nuts (FMPDBN); 42.7% for fruits; 17.4% for green, leafy and yellow (GLY) vegetables; and 38.5% for other vegetables. The most reported reasons for the infrequent consumption of FMPDBN (87.1%), milk (81.4%) and eggs (36.2%) were 'no money to buy,' that of fruits (59.4%) was 'out of season' and that of GLY (61.5%) and other vegetables (55.2%) was 'child's dislike.' The expansion of homestead food production and the national feeding program contribute to increased animal food consumption. Nutrition education aimed at overcoming food preferences and increasing the awareness of micronutrient intake are perhaps the most effective means to promote vegetable intake.
17392707	Segregation analysis is a method of detecting major genes for quantitative traits without using marker information. It serves as an important tool in helping investigators to plan further studies such as quantitative trait loci mapping or more sophisticated genomic analyses. However, current methods of segregation analysis for a single trait typically have low statistical power. We propose a multivariate segregation analysis (MSA) that takes advantage of the correlation structure of multiple quantitative traits to detect major genes. This method not only increases the statistical power, but allows dissection of the genetic architecture underlying the trait complex. In MSA the observed phenotypes of multiple correlated traits are fitted to a multivariate Gaussian mixture model. Model parameters are estimated under the maximum likelihood framework via the expectation-maximization algorithm. The presence of major genes is tested using likelihood ratio test statistics. Pleiotropy is distinguished from close linkage by comparing three possible models using the Bayesian information criterion. Two simulation experiments were performed based on the F(2) mating design. In the first, the statistical properties of MSA under varying heritabilities and sample sizes were investigated and the results compared with those obtained from single-trait analysis. In the second simulation the efficacy of MSA in separating pleiotropy from close linkage was demonstrated. Finally, the new method was applied to real data and detected a major gene responsible for both plant height and tiller number in rice.
17393080	A plant expression vector harboring four antifungal genes was delivered into the embryogenic calli of '9311', an indica restorer line of Super Hybrid Rice, via modified biolistic particle bombardment. Southern blot analysis indicated that in the regenerated hygromycin-resistant plants, all the four antifungal genes, including RCH10, RAC22, beta-Glu and B-RIP, were integrated into the genome of '9311', co-transmitted altogether with the marker gene hpt in a Mendelian pattern. Some transgenic R1 and R2 progenies, with all transgenes displaying a normal expression level in the Northern blot analysis, showed high resistance to Magnaporthe grisea when tested in the typical blast nurseries located in Yanxi and Sanya respectively. Furthermore, transgenic F1 plants, resulting from a cross of R2 homozygous lines with high resistance to rice blast with the non-transgenic male sterile line Peiai 64S, showed not only high resistance to M. grisea but also enhanced resistance to rice false smut (a disease caused by Ustilaginoidea virens) and rice kernel smut (another disease caused by Tilletia barclayana).
17394352	Density functional theory calculations (B3LYP and BH&HLYP functionals) of the potential energy surface have been performed to investigate the mechanisms of decalin breakdown, and the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus and transition state theory methods have been used to compute the high-pressure limit thermal rate constants for the new reaction pathways. The new pathways connect decalin to five primary monoaromatic species: benzene, toluene, styrene, ethylbenzene, and xylene. The reactions used for the new routes are carbon-carbon bond cleavage reaction, dissociation reaction, and hydrogen abstraction and addition reactions. A kinetic analysis was performed for pyrolytic conditions, and benzene, toluene, and xylene were identified as major products.
17395495	Phylogenetic relationships of the nucleotide binding site (NBS)-encoding resistance gene homologues (RGHs) among 12 species in five genera of Rosaceae fruit crops were evaluated. A total of 228 Rosaceous RGHs were deeply separated into two distinct clades, designated as TIR (sequences within this clade containing a Toll Interleukin-1 Receptor domain) and NonTIR (sequences lacking a TIR domain). Most Rosaceous RGH genes were phylogenetically distinct from Arabidopsis, Rice or Pine genes, except for a few Rosaceous members which grouped closely with Arabidopsis genes. Within Rosaceae, sequences from multiple species were often phylogenetically clustered together, forming heterogenous groups, however, apple- and chestnut rose-specific groups really exist. Gene duplication followed by sequence divergence were proposed as the mode for the evolution of a large number of distantly or closely related RGH genes in Rosaceae, and this mode may play a role in the generation of new resistance specificity. Positively selected sites within NBS-coding region were detected and thus nucleotide variation within NBS domain may function in determining disease resistance specificity. This study also discusses the synteny of a genomic region that encompass powdery mildew resistance locus among Malus, Prunus and Rosa, which may have potential use for fruit tree disease breeding and important gene cloning.
17396500	With closed static chamber and modified gas chromatograph (HP5890 II), the in situ measurements were made on the CO2, CH4 and N2O emissions from winter-fallowed paddy fields in the hilly area of South China. Gas samples were taken simultaneously from the fields with and without rice stubble. The results showed that both of the fields had the peak value of CO2 flux in the late afternoon. In the fields with and without rice stubble, the CH4 flux was positive in the day time while negative in the night, and the N2O flux in the day time was 1.79 and 1.58 times as much as that in the night, respectively. The diurnal average CO2 flux in the field with rice stubble was significantly higher than that in bare field (P < 0.05). Correlation analysis demonstrated that the CO2 flux in winter-fallowed paddy fields had significant correlations with soil temperature, aboveground temperature, and air temperature, suggesting that temperature was the main factor affecting the CO2 emission from rice field after harvesting. During the observation time (from 2003-11-10 to 2004-01-18), the average CO2, CH4 and N2O fluxes in the field with rice stubble were (180.69 +/- 21.21) mg x m(-2) x h(-1), (-0.04 +/- 0.01) mg x m(-2) x h(-1) and (21.26 +/- 19.31) microg x m(-2) x h(-1), respectively. Compared with bare field, the CO2 flux in the field with rice stubble was 13.06% higher, CH4 absorption increased by 50%, while N2O flux was 60.75% lower. It was concluded that the winter fallowed paddy field in hilly area of South China was the source of atmospheric CO2 and N2O, and the sink of atmospheric CH4.
17397507	Rice cultivars vary widely in their sensitivity to ultraviolet B (UVB) and this has been correlated with cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) photolyase mutations that alter the structure/function of this photorepair enzyme. Here, we tested whether CPD photolyase function determines the UVB sensitivity of rice (Oryza sativa) by generating transgenic rice plants bearing the CPD photolyase gene of the UV-resistant rice cultivar Sasanishiki in the sense orientation (S-B and S-C lines) or the antisense orientation (AS-D line). The S-B and S-C plants had 5.1- and 45.7-fold higher CPD photolyase activities than the wild-type, respectively, were significantly more resistant to UVB-induced growth damage, and maintained significantly lower CPD levels in their leaves during growth under elevated UVB radiation. Conversely, the AS-D plant had little photolyase activity, was severely damaged by elevated UVB radiation, and maintained higher CPD levels in its leaves during growth under UVB radiation. Notably, the S-C plant was not more resistant to UVB-induced growth inhibition than the S-B plant, even though it had much higher CPD photolyase activity. These results strongly indicate that UVB-induced CPDs are one of principal causes of UVB-induced growth inhibition in rice plants grown under supplementary UVB radiation, and that increasing CPD photolyase activity can significantly alleviate UVB-caused growth inhibition in rice. However, further protection from UVB-induced damage may require the genetic enhancement of other systems as well.
17397955	The objective of this study was to conduct a preliminary microbial risk assessment for Staphylococcus aureus in kimbab, and then propose appropriate guidelines for its preparation and storage. Kimbab is a ready-to-eat product, popular in Korea, made of various foods surrounded by rice and seaweed. Because it is usually prepared by hand and stored at room temperature, it can be contaminated with S. aureus. Data on the prevalence, concentration and growth of S. aureus in kimbab as well as typical ambient temperatures in Seoul were collected; probability distributions were then selected to describe these data. A Monte Carlo simulation model was created using @risk. When current Korean retail data on S. aureus prevalence and concentration were used as inputs, the simulation predicted that the S. aureus concentration would be between 4.0 and 4.9 log CFU/g after 1 h of storage at ambient temperature during the warmest part of the year (March through November). Conversely, by assuming a starting concentration of 1 cell/g, the simulation predicted that the S. aureus concentration would reach 4.4 log CFU/g after 5 h of ambient storage in May and 3.4 log CFU/g in October. Our results suggest that, given the current prevalence and concentration of S. aureus found in kimbab at retail outlets, the product should be consumed within 1 h of purchase. Our results also indicate that if Korean consumers wish to safely store kimbab for 5 h at ambient temperature, S. aureus concentration should not exceed 1 CFU/g at the time of preparation.
17399684	Histone acetylation levels are determined by the action of histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases (HDACs). Sequence similarity and profile searching tools were used to analyze the genome sequence of rice (Oryzae sativa) for genes encoding HDAC proteins. The rice RPD3/HDA1-family HDAC proteins can be divided into four classes based on sequence similarity and phylogenetic analysis of sequences obtained from the rice genome. The spatial expression pattern of rice HDACs genes indicated that some HDAC genes have different expression profiles. Furthermore, our analysis indicated that expression of HDA705, HDT701, and HDT702 could be affected by salicylic acid, jasmonic acid or abscisic acid. Expression of HDA714, SRT702, and SRT701 could be modulated by abiotic stresses, such as cold, mannitol and salt. These results indicate that different HDAC genes have distinct expression patterns and members of rice HDAC families may be involved in plant response to environmental stresses.
17400446	Wastewaters from textile industries may contain a variety of dyes that have to be removed before their discharge into waterways. Rice hull, an agricultural by-product, was modified using ethylenediamine to introduce active sites on its surface to enable it to function as a sorbent for both basic and reactive dyes. The sorption characteristics of Basic Blue 3 (BB3) and Reactive Orange 16 (RO16) by ethylenediamine modified rice hull (MRH) were studied under various experimental conditions. Sorption was pH and concentration dependent. Simultaneous removal of BB3 and RO16 occurred at pH greater than 4. The kinetics of dye sorption fitted a pseudo-second order rate expression. Increase in agitation rate had no effect on the sorption of BB3 but increased uptake of RO16 on MRH. Decreasing particle size increased the uptake of dyes in binary dye solutions. Equilibrium data could be fitted into both the Langmuir and Freundlich isotherms. Maximum sorption capacities calculated from the Langmuir model are 14.68 and 60.24 mg/g for BB3 and RO16, respectively in binary dye solutions. This corresponds to an enhancement of 4.5 and 2.4 fold, respectively, compared to single dye solutions. MRH therefore has the potential of being used as an efficient sorbent for the removal of both dyes in textile wastewaters.
17400897	UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (UGPase) catalyzes the reversible production of glucose-1-phosphate and UTP to UDP-glucose and pyrophosphate. The rice (Oryza sativa) genome contains two homologous UGPase genes, Ugp1 and Ugp2. We report a functional characterization of rice Ugp1, which is expressed throughout the plant, with highest expression in florets, especially in pollen during anther development. Ugp1 silencing by RNA interference or cosuppression results in male sterility. Expressing a double-stranded RNA interference construct in Ugp1-RI plants resulted in complete suppression of both Ugp1 and Ugp2, together with various pleiotropic developmental abnormalities, suggesting that UGPase plays critical roles in plant growth and development. More importantly, Ugp1-cosuppressing plants contained unprocessed intron-containing primary transcripts derived from transcription of the overexpression construct. These aberrant transcripts undergo temperature-sensitive splicing in florets, leading to a novel thermosensitive genic male sterility. Pollen mother cells (PMCs) of Ugp1-silenced plants appeared normal before meiosis, but during meiosis, normal callose deposition was disrupted. Consequently, the PMCs began to degenerate at the early meiosis stage, eventually resulting in complete pollen collapse. In addition, the degeneration of the tapetum and middle layer was inhibited. These results demonstrate that rice Ugp1 is required for callose deposition during PMC meiosis and bridges the apoplastic unloading pathway and pollen development.
17402249	The severity of Zn deficiency increased with increase in soil exchangeable sodium percentage (ESP) with salt sensitive variety M1-48 scoring 6 at ESP 62 as against only score 3 by salt tolerant variety Pokkali under similar soil conditions. Strikingly, zinc contents were much higher in salt tolerant variety than in salt sensitive one. Zinc application increased zinc concentration in the roots by a factor of 2.85 to 3.87 in Pokkali whereas it rose from 2.37 to 4.35 times in M1-48 depending upon ESP but in the leaves it registered increase of 1.5 to 1.8 times only. In general, the concentrations of reducing sugar were less (about 2.2%) than that of non-reducing (about 3.8%) in both the varieties under normal soil conditions. However, the concentration of reducing sugar doubled (4.2-4.4%) at the highest ESP 62, whereas the concentration of non-reducing sugar though increased (4.1 to 5.1%) but not as vigorously as reducing one. Zinc application reduced the concentration of reducing sugar but not that of non-reducing at similar ESP values. In Pokkali, the concentrations of total sugar increased from 6% at ESP 20 to 9.34% at ESP 62, whereas it registered enhancements of 5.98 to 8.6% in M1-48 under similar conditions. The nitrate reductase (NR) activity decreased with increase in soil sodicity however, the varietal differences in NR activity were wider under Zn-stress than under conditions of applied zinc with Pokkali registering higher NR activities. Carbonic anhydrase activities were higher in salt tolerant variety. Inhibition in carbonic anhydrase activity amounted to 23 and 45% in salt-sensitive variely M1-48 whereas only 19 and 33% in salt-tolerant variety Pokkali at ESP 41 and 62, respectively. The effects of zinc application at higher soil sodicity were more obvious in salt-sensitive variety than in salt-tolerant one. The findings suggest that the tolerance to Zn stress runs parallel to salt tolerance abilities of rice varieties.
17402498	Quarter Horses are particularly susceptible to polysaccharide storage myopathy (PSSM). Nutritional therapy and possibly prophylaxis includes fat-supplemented diets whilst starch supply should be kept to a minimum. To investigate the glycaemic and insulinaemic response of clinically normal Quarter Horses to concentrates high in fat and low in starch. Twelve Quarter Horses were studied. The precondition for inclusion in the study population was that the horses had not shown clinical signs of myopathy. The Quarter Horses were fed according to a 4 x 4 Latin square design haylage plus isocaloric concentrates based on barley and oats as control (CO), sugar beet pulp, grass meal and soybean oil (SB), rice bran and grass meal (RB) and rice bran, grass meal, sugar beet pulp and soybean oil (CP), each over 2 weeks after 1 week of adaptation. At the end of each period, 1 kg of concentrate was fed and blood sampled 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, and 300 min post prandial (ppr.). Creatine kinase (CK; 0 min ppr. only), glucose and insulin were analysed. Glycaemic and insulinaemic index was calculated from each concentrates area under the curve (AUC) relative to CO. Rice bran containing concentrates were partially refused at the beginning of the trial periods. CK activity, and glucose and insulin patterns (ppr. mean, peak, AUC, index) were highest with CO (P<0.05). The correlation between glucose and insulin (P<0.001) ranged from r = 0.570 (CO) to r = 0.364 (RB). Basal CK was highly correlated (P<0.001) to the mean ppr. plasma glucose. Rice bran, sugar beet pulp, grass meal and soybean oil are suitable to include in concentrates that induce low glycaemic and insulinaemic response. Its acceptance seems to be a question of habituation. Although the mechanism is not completely understood, glucose patterns and basal CK activity are highly positively correlated. Both were affected by the type of concentrate used. Results support the suggestion that low-starch and high-fat feeding may be helpful not only in the nutrition of affected horses, but also to prevent future PSSM associated discomfort in particularly susceptible horses.
1740436	Chitinase isolated from Zea mays seeds is inactivated by 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide (EDC) in the absence of exogenous nucleophiles. Oligomers of N-acetylglucosamine,N,N',N",N"'-tetra-N-acetylchitotetraose (GlcNAc4), and to a lesser extent, N,N',N"-tri-N-acetylchitotriose (GlcNAc3) and N,N'-di-N-acetylchitobiose (GlcNAc2) provide partial protection against inactivation by the reagent. An examination of the concentration dependence of the protection afforded by GlcNAc4 revealed direct competition between the substrate analog and the reagent for the same binding sites on the enzyme. Isolation and Edman degradation of a "new" tryptic fragment, observed after inactivation of chitinase with EDC, revealed the sequence G-P-L-Q-I-S-W-N-*-N-Y-G-P-A-G-R, where the asterisk represents a cycle in which no amino acid was detected, presumably as a consequence of derivatization with EDC. In basic chitinases from dicotyledonous plants such as Arabidopsis thaliana, Phaseolis vulgaris (bean), Nicotiana tabacum (tobacco), and Solanum tuberosum (potato), as well as in the chitinase isolated from the monocotyledonous plant Hordeum vulgare (barley), this position is invariably occupied by a tyrosine. However, in the Oryza sativa (rice) basic chitinase, this position is occupied by a phenylalanine. The following additional evidence supports identification of this residue as tyrosine in Z. mays chitinase. (a) Inactivation of chitinase with EDC is reversible by treatment with hydroxylamine. (b) Liquid secondary ion mass spectrometric analysis of the isolated derivatized peptide revealed the presence of a molecular ion with a mass to charge ratio consistent with the peptide containing a derivatized tyrosine residue. These results provide evidence for an essential tyrosine residue at or near the catalytic site of chitinase that is selectively modified during inactivation with EDC.
17404686	Oryzain alpha-A, a cysteine proteinase gene was cloned from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Aichi-asahi) leaves infected with Magnaporthe grisea. The protein sequence deduced for oryzain alpha-A shares high identity with that of oryzain alpha, a gene expressed in germinating rice seed. Oryzain alpha-A gene expression was induced by the blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, and the transcript level was even higher in the compatible interaction with rice than in the incompatible interaction. Expression of oryzain alpha-A was also inducible by wounding, ultraviolet radiation, and treatment with salicylic acid and abscisic acid, with no expression induced by methyl jasmonate. The function of oryzain alpha-A in cell death in rice is discussed.
17405625	Farmer's cattle were treated with triclabendazole and used as tracer animals to detect new infections with Fasciola gigantica in three villages located on the bank of the Bassac River (a major tributary of the Mekong River) and in a fourth village located on farmland away from the river, from April 1999 until January 2001. The month of infection was estimated by subtracting 4 months from the date when eggs of F. gigantica were detected in faeces. Farmers were interviewed each month to record the nature of the agricultural and animal husbandry activities that occurred during the previous month, especially events that might have exposed cattle to infection with F. gigantica. Results support the conclusions that infection of cattle in riverbank villages acquired from about August or September until November originated from herbage and water in irrigation canals and dams on the riverbank, and that the progressively increasing monthly incidence from December until April (up to 87% per month in April 2000) was derived from herbage and water in recently harvested rice fields and lakes adjacent to the riverbank. The abrupt cessation of new infection in riverbank villages in May coincided with flooding of low-lying land, the movement of cattle to land above flood height on the riverbank, and a change of diet to dry-land crop residues, stored dry rice stalks, and herbage and water that were unlikely to contain metacercariae. It was concluded that snails in dams and canals on the riverbank became infected with E gigantica after cattle were moved to the riverbank in May, and cercariae shed from these snails provided the new infections that occurred in cattle in August and September. In the village located away from the river, infection of cattle between September and March coincided with the rice harvest, supporting the conclusion that feeding of fresh rice stalks and stubble after the rice was harvested was the main source of infection. The low monthly incidence observed (up to 6.4% per month) was consistent with the hypothesis that snails did not survive in the dry rice fields between crops and that few snails would have been available from the small number of aquatic refuges that persisted through the dry season to recolonize rice fields during the wet season. Between April and August there was no opportunity for new infection because cattle were fed forage from around houses and headlands, and on dry-land crop residues and stored dry rice stalks. Control of fasciolosis was proposed using a single treatment of cattle with triclabendazole in riverbank villages in May when cattle were moved to the riverbank, and after harvest of the last rice field in villages located away from the river.
17405771	Rice BGlu1 beta-glucosidase is a glycosyl hydrolase family 1 enzyme that acts as an exoglucanase on beta-(1,4)- and short beta-(1,3)-linked gluco-oligosaccharides. Mutations of BGlu1 beta-glucosidase at glutamate residue 414 of its natural precursor destroyed the enzyme's catalytic activity, but the enzyme could be rescued in the presence of the anionic nucleophiles such as formate and azide, which verifies that this residue is the catalytic nucleophile. The catalytic activities of three candidate mutants, E414G, E414S, and E414A, in the presence of the nucleophiles were compared. The E414G mutant had approximately 25- and 1400-fold higher catalytic efficiency than E414A and E414S, respectively. All three mutants could catalyze the synthesis of mixed length oligosaccharides by transglucosylation, when alpha-glucosyl fluoride was used as donor and pNP-cellobioside as acceptor. The E414G mutant gave the fastest transglucosylation rate, which was approximately 3- and 19-fold faster than that of E414S and E414A, respectively, and gave yields of up to 70-80% insoluble products with a donor-acceptor ratio of 5:1. (13)C-NMR, methylation analysis, and electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry showed that the insoluble products were beta-(1,4)-linked oligomers with a degree of polymerization of 5 to at least 11. The BGlu1 E414G glycosynthase was found to prefer longer chain length oligosaccharides that occupy at least three sugar residue-binding subsites as acceptors for productive transglucosylation. This is the first report of a beta-glucansynthase derived from an exoglycosidase that can produce long-chain cello-oligosaccharides, which likely reflects the extended oligosaccharide-binding site of rice BGlu1 beta-glucosidase.
17406093
17406537	Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice is an important method that has been widely adopted by many laboratories. However, because current approaches rely on culture systems, routine protocols have been established only in japonica rice, especially those varieties with higher regeneration potential. Some very efficient methods have been developed for japonica varieties that enable high-throughput functional analysis in rice; however, many elite japonica, and most indica, varieties are difficult to regenerate, leading to low transformation efficiencies. Much effort has been devoted to improving transformation efficiency for all rice genotypes. Here, we describe an Agrobacterium-mediated rice transformation method that is applicable to easily cultured varieties in addition to elite japonica varieties that are more difficult to culture. Using this method, transgenic rice plants can be obtained in about 2-3 months with a transformation frequency of 30-50%, both in easily cultured varieties and recalcitrant elite japonica rice.
17406674	Since the creation of "Golden Rice", biofortification of plant-derived foods is a promising strategy for the alleviation of nutritional deficiencies. Potato is the most important staple food for mankind after the cereals rice, wheat and maize, and is extremely poor in provitamin A carotenoids. We transformed potato with a mini-pathway of bacterial origin, driving the synthesis of beta-carotene (Provitamin A) from geranylgeranyl diphosphate. Three genes, encoding phytoene synthase (CrtB), phytoene desaturase (CrtI) and lycopene beta-cyclase (CrtY) from Erwinia, under tuber-specific or constitutive promoter control, were used. 86 independent transgenic lines, containing six different promoter/gene combinations, were produced and analyzed. Extensive regulatory effects on the expression of endogenous genes for carotenoid biosynthesis are observed in transgenic lines. Constitutive expression of the CrtY and/or CrtI genes interferes with the establishment of transgenosis and with the accumulation of leaf carotenoids. Expression of all three genes, under tuber-specific promoter control, results in tubers with a deep yellow ("golden") phenotype without any adverse leaf phenotypes. In these tubers, carotenoids increase approx. 20-fold, to 114 mcg/g dry weight and beta-carotene 3600-fold, to 47 mcg/g dry weight. This is the highest carotenoid and beta-carotene content reported for biofortified potato as well as for any of the four major staple foods (the next best event being "Golden Rice 2", with 31 mcg/g dry weight beta-carotene). Assuming a beta-carotene to retinol conversion of 6ratio1, this is sufficient to provide 50% of the Recommended Daily Allowance of Vitamin A with 250 gms (fresh weight) of "golden" potatoes.
17406771	During a survey of endophytic diazotrophic bacteria associated with different rice varieties in Tamilnadu, some "endophytes" were obtained. Thirteen bacterial isolates from surface-sterilized roots and shoots were obtained in pure culture, which produced indole acetic acid (IAA) and reduced acetylene to ethylene. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification confirmed the presence of nif-H gene in all the isolates. Morphological, biochemical, and molecular characteristics indicated that all of them belonged to the genus Burkholderia One of them, MGK3, was consistently more active in reducing acetylene, and 16S rDNA sequences of isolate MGK3 confirmed its identification as Burkholderia vietnamiensis. Colonization of rice root was confirmed by strain MGK3 marked with gusA gene. The inoculated roots showed a blue color, which was most intense at the points of lateral root emergence and at the root tip. Transverse sections of roots, 15 days after inoculation, revealed beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity within many of the cortical intercellular spaces next to the stele and within the aerenchyma. Nitrogen fixation was quantified by using (15)N isotope dilution method with two different cultivars grown in pot and field experiments. Higher nitrogen fixation was observed in variety Ponni than in ADT-43, where nearly 42% (field) and 40% (pot) of the nitrogen was derived from the atmosphere (% Ndfa). Isolate MGK3 was used to inoculate rice seedlings in a comparison with four other diazotrophs, viz., Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus LMG7603, Herbaspirillum seropedicae LMG6513, Azospirillum lipoferum 4B LMG4348, and B. vietnamiensis LMG10929. They were used to conduct two pot and four field inoculation experiments. MGK3 alone, and combined with other diazotrophs, performed best under both pot and field conditions: combined inoculation produced yield increases between 9.5 and 23.6%, while MGK3 alone increased yield by 5.6 to 12.16% over the uninoculated control treatment.
17406793	ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGP) catalyzes the first committed step of starch biosynthesis in higher plants. To identify AGP isoforms essential for this biosynthetic process in sink and source tissues of rice plants, we analyzed the rice AGP gene family which consists of two genes, OsAGPS1 and OsAGPS2, encoding small subunits (SSU) and four genes, OsAGPL1, OsAGPL2, OsAGPL3 and OsAGPL4, encoding large subunits (LSU) of this enzyme heterotetrameric complex. Subcellular localization studies using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion constructs indicate that OsAGPS2a, the product of the leaf-preferential transcript of OsAGPS2, and OsAGPS1, OsAGPL1, OsAGPL3, and OsAGPL4 are plastid-targeted isoforms. In contrast, two isoforms, SSU OsAGPS2b which is a product of a seed-specific transcript of OsAGPS2, and LSU OsAGPL2, are localized in the cytosol. Analysis of osagps2 and osagpl2 mutants revealed that a lesion of one of the two cytosolic isoforms, OsAGPL2 and OsAGPS2b, causes a shrunken endosperm due to a remarkable reduction in starch synthesis. In leaves, however, only the osagps2 mutant appears to severely reduce the transitory starch content. Interestingly, the osagps2 mutant was indistinguishable from wild type during vegetative plant growth. Western blot analysis of the osagp mutants and wild type plants demonstrated that OsAGPS2a is an SSU isoform mainly present in leaves, and that OsAGPS2b and OsAGPL2 are the major SSU and LSU isoforms, respectively, in the endosperm. Finally, we propose a spatiotemporal complex model of OsAGP SSU and LSU isoforms in leaves and in developing endosperm of rice plants.
17407182	Plant plasma membrane (PM) proteins play important roles in signal transduction during defense response to an attacking pathogen. By using an improved method of PM protein preparation and PM-bound green fluorescent protein fusion protein as a visible marker, we conducted PM proteomic analysis of the rice suspension cells expressing the disease resistance gene Xa21, to identify PM components involved in the early defense response to bacterial blight (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae). A total of 20 regulated protein spots were observed on 2-D gels of PM fractions at 12 and 24 h after pathogen inoculation, of which some were differentially regulated between the incompatible and compatible interactions mediated by Xa21, with good correlation between biological repeats. Eleven protein spots with predicted functions in plant defense were identified by MS/MS, including nine putative PM-associated proteins H+-ATPase, protein phosphatase, hypersensitive-induced response protein (OsHIR1), prohibitin (OsPHB2), zinc finger and C2 domain protein, universal stress protein (USP), and heat shock protein. OsHIR1 was modified by the microbial challenge, leading to two differentially accumulated protein spots. Transcript analysis showed that most of the genes were also regulated at transcriptional levels. Our study would provide a starting point for functionality of PM proteins in the rice defense.
17407537	Plant growth and development are coordinately controlled by environmental signals and internal factors. Light signals, mediated by phytochromes, regulate photomorphogenesis by interacting with endogenous programmes that involve multiple phytohormones. Brassinosteroids (BRs) are a group of growth-promoting phytohormones with a crucial role in the light-dependent development of plants. However, the interaction between light-signalling pathways and BR signalling is not well understood. Here, we examined the responses of lamina joint inclination and coleoptile elongation to exogenous brassinolide (BL) under light or dark conditions. Both responses were more pronounced under darkness, implying that BR signalling is inhibited by light. To elucidate which phytochrome is involved in this interaction, we isolated rice phytochrome-deficient mutants (osphyA, osphyB and osphyC) from a T-DNA insertional population. Whereas the osphyA and osphyC knockout mutants did not differ from the wild-type plants in their BL responses, osphyB mutants were more sensitive. In addition, RT-PCR analysis revealed enhanced expression of BR-inducible genes and decreased transcript levels of BR-biosynthetic genes in osphyB plants. These results suggest that Phytochrome B acts as a negative regulator of BL-regulated growth and development processes in rice.
17407896	Measurements of otoacoustic emission (OAE) magnitude are often made at low signal/noise ratios (SNRs) where measurement noise generates bias and variability errors that have led to the misinterpretation of OAE data. To gain an understanding for these errors and their effects, a two part investigation was carried out. First, the nature of OAE measurement noise was investigated using human data from 50 stimulus-frequency OAE experiments involving medial olivocochlear reflex (MOCR) activation. The noise was found to be reasonably approximated by circular Gaussian noise. Furthermore, when bias errors were taken into account, measurement variability was not found to be affected by MOCR activation as had been previously reported. Second, to quantify the errors circular Gaussian noise produces for different methods of OAE magnitude estimation for distortion-product, stimulus-frequency, and spontaneous OAEs, simulated OAE measurements were analyzed via four different magnitude estimation methods and compared. At low SNRs (below -6 dB), estimators involving Rice probability density functions produced less biased estimates of OAE magnitudes than conventional estimation methods, and less total rms error-particularly for spontaneous OAEs. They also enabled the calculation of probability density functions for OAE magnitudes from experimental data.
17408247	In this article, we discuss the reactions of i-C4H5 and n-C4H5 with acetylene. Both have been proposed as possible cyclization steps, forming benzene or fulvene, in rich flames burning aliphatic fuels. The relevant parts of the potential energy surface were determined from rQCISD(T) calculations extrapolated to the infinite-basis-set limit. Using this information in a Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus-based master equation, we have calculated thermal rate coefficients and product distributions for both reactions as a function of temperature and pressure. The results are cast in forms that can be used in modeling, and the implications of the results for flame chemistry are discussed.
17408724	This study was conducted to measure the levels of 23 PCB congeners and 6 organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) in human milk and three food types collected from Luqiao and Pingqiao in Zhejiang Province, China. An effort was also made to explore the potential health risk for the mothers and breast-fed infants living in these two localities. Luqiao was selected as the sampling site because it is the largest place for the disassembly of obsolete transformers and electrical waste in China. Pingqiao, located 100 km NW of Luqiao, is not known to be a place for any electronic or electrical waste and hence was chosen as the control site. Both localities are important agricultural places in the province. The organochlorines were measured in the samples using the GC-muECD technique. Micro-EROD bioassay method was also used as a complement of the chemical analysis to estimate the TEQ levels of dioxin-like PCBs in human milk. The data showed that the human milk, rice, hen egg, and fish samples from Luqiao were more heavily contaminated with PCBs than those from Pingqiao, suggesting that the mothers and their breast-fed infants in Luqiao tended to receive greater exposure to PCBs than those living in Pingqiao. The OCP levels in the two localities were found comparable, suggesting that the major source of contamination with these pesticides was from their agricultural uses. Significant correlation (R2 = 0.87, P<0.001) of PCB TEQs was found between the bioassay and chemical analysis method, suggesting that micro-EROD is an effective method for comprehensive determination of TEQ levels in human milk. Comparison with literature data showed that the PCB levels in milk samples from Luqiao were significantly higher than those from localities in other Chinese provinces and comparable to those in developed or industrialized countries.
17408882	Auxin response factors (ARFs) are transcription factors that bind with specificity to TGTCTC-containing auxin response elements (AuxREs) found in promoters of primary/early auxin response genes and mediate responses to the plant hormone auxin. The ARF genes are represented by a large multigene family in plants. A comprehensive genome-wide analysis was carried out in this study to find all ARFs in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa subsp. japonica), 23 and 25 ARF genes, named as AtARFs and OsARFs, were identified, respectively. Chromosomal locations of all OsARFs were presented and it was found that the duplication of OsARFs was associated with only the chromosomal block duplications but not local tandem duplications. A phylogenetic tree was generated from alignments of the full-length protein sequences of 25 OsARFs and 23 AtARFs to examine the phylogenetic relationships of rice and Arabidopsis ARF proteins. All 48 members of ARF gene families fell into three major classes, a total of 13 sister pairs, including 9 OsARF-OsARF, 2 AtARF-AtARF and 2 AtARF-OsARF sister pairs were formed, showing different orthologous relationships between AtARFs and OsARFs. EST analysis and RT-PCR assays demonstrated that 24 of all 25 OsARF genes were active and the transcript abundance of some OsARF genes was affected by auxin treatment or light- and dark-grown conditions. The outcome of the present study provides basic genomic information for the rice ARF gene family and will pave the way for elucidating the precise role of OsARFs in plant growth and development in the future.
17408884	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of non-coding RNAs that regulate gene post-transcriptional expression in animals and plants. Comparatively genomic computational methods have been developed to predict new miRNAs in worms, humans, and Arabidopsis. Here we present an EST (Expressed Sequence Tags)--and GSS (Genomic Survey Sequences)-based combined approach for the detection of novel miRNAs in Gossypium hirsutum. This was initiated by using previously known miRNA sequences from Arabidopsis, rice and other plant species and an algorithm called miRNAassist to blast the databases of G. hirsutum EST and GSS. A total of 37 potential miRNAs were detected following a range of filtering criteria. Using these potential miRNAs sequences, we further blasted the publicly available mRNA database and detected 96 potential targets in G. hirsutum. According to the mRNA information provided by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/), most of the miRNA targeted genes were predicted to encode transcription factors that regulate cell growth and development, signaling, and metabolism. So far, little is known about experimental or computational identification of miRNA in G. hirsutum species. These new miRNAs and their targets in G. hirsutum have been run through miRNAassist to yield data that may help us better understanding of the possible role of miRNAs in regulating the growth and development of G. hirsutum.
17408920	In this report we define the genes of two-component regulatory systems in rice through a comprehensive computational analysis of rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome sequence databases. Thirty-seven genes were identified, including 5 HKs (cytokinin-response histidine protein kinase) (OsHK1-4, OsHKL1), 5 HPs (histidine phosphotransfer proteins) (OsHP1-5), 15 type-A RRs (response regulators) (OsRR1-15), 7 type B RR genes (OsRR16-22), and 5 predicted pseudo-response regulators (OsPRR1-5). Protein motif organization, gene structure, phylogenetic analysis, chromosomal location, and comparative analysis between rice, maize, and Arabidopsis are described. Full-length cDNA clones of each gene were isolated from rice. Heterologous expression of each of the OsHKs in yeast mutants conferred histidine kinase function in a cytokinin-dependent manner. Nonconserved regions of individual cDNAs were used as probes in expression profiling experiments. This work provides a foundation for future functional dissection of the rice cytokinin two-component signaling pathway.
17408956	Alternative respiratory pathway was investigated in rice seedlings grown under total darkness, light/dark cycle, or continuous light. The capacity of the alternative pathway was relatively higher in leaves that had longer light exposure. An analysis of rice AOX1 multigene family revealed that AOX1c, but not AOX1a and AOX1b, had a light-independent expression. The alternative oxidase (AOX) inhibitor, salicylhydroxamic acid (SHAM, 1mM), inhibited nearly 68% of the capacity of the alternative pathway in leaves grown under different light conditions. The plants grown under different light periods were treated with SHAM and then were exposed to illumination for 4h. The transition from dark to 4h of light stimulated the capacity of alternative pathway in etiolated rice seedlings and in those grown under light/dark cycle, whereas the capacity of the alternative pathway was constant in seedlings grown under continuous light with additional 4h of illumination. Etiolated leaves did not show any CO(2) fixation after 4h of illumination, and the increase in chlorophyll content was delayed by the SHAM pretreatment. When seedlings grown under light/dark cycle were moved from dark and exposed to 4h of light, increases in chlorophyll content and CO(2) fixation rate were reduced by SHAM. Although these parameters were stable in plants grown under continuous light, SHAM decreased CO(2) fixation rate but not the chlorophyll content. These results indicate that the role and regulation of AOX in light are determined by the developmental stage of plant photosynthetic apparatus.
17409063	Retrotransposons consist of significant portions of many complex eukaryotic genomes and are often enriched in heterochromatin. The centromeric retrotransposon (CR) family in grass species is colonized in the centromeres and highly conserved among species that have been diverged for >50 MY. These unique characteristics have inspired scientists to speculate about the roles of CR elements in organization and function of centromeric chromatin. Here we report that the CRR (CR of rice) elements in rice are highly enriched in chromatin associated with H3K9me2, a hallmark for heterochromatin. CRR elements were transcribed in root, leaf, and panicle tissues, suggesting a constitutive transcription of this retrotransposon family. However, the overall transcription level was low and the CRR transcripts appeared to be derived from relatively few loci. The majority of the CRR transcripts had chimerical structures and contained only partial CRR sequences. We detected small RNAs (smRNAs) cognate to nonautonomous CRR1 (noaCRR1) and CRR1, but not CRR2 elements. This result was also confirmed by in silico analysis of rice smRNA sequences. These results suggest that different CRR subfamilies may play different roles in the RNAi-mediated pathway for formation and maintenance of centromeric heterochromatin.
17409064	Functional diversification of duplicated genes can contribute to the emergence of new organ morphologies. Model eudicot plants like Arabidopsis thaliana and Antirrhinum majus have a single PI/GLO gene that together with AP3/DEF regulate petal and stamen formation. Lodicules of grass flowers are morphologically distinct reduced organs occupying the position of petals in other flowers. They serve a distinct function in partial and transient flower opening to allow stamen emergence and cross-pollination. Grasses have duplicated PI/GLO-like genes and in rice (Oryza sativa) one these genes, OsMADS2, controls lodicule formation without affecting stamen development. In this study, we investigate the mechanistic roles played by OsMADS2. We ascribe a function for OsMADS2 in controlling cell division and differentiation along the proximal-distal axis. OsMADS2 is required to trigger parenchymatous and lodicule-specific vascular development while maintaining a small organ size. Our data implicate the developmentally late spatially restricted accumulation of OsMADS2 transcripts in the differentiating lodicule to control growth of these regions. The global architecture of transcripts regulated by OsMADS2 gives insights into the regulation of cell division and vascular differentiation that together can form this highly modified grass organ with important functions in floret opening and stamen emergence independent of the paralogous gene OsMADS4.
17411466	To develop a quantitative food-frequency questionnaire (QFFQ) for the Barbados National Cancer Study (BNCS) that will permit examination of associations of diet with breast and prostate cancer. Population intake data from the year 2000 Barbados Food Consumption and Anthropometric Surveys (BFCAS 2000) were used to derive a list of foods consumed by the population. A 192-item draft QFFQ was developed from this list. Barbados, West Indies provides an ideal environment to understand cancer risk in African-origin populations, with high relevance to African-Americans. The BNCS is a population-based case-control study examining risk factors for breast and prostate cancer in such populations. A total of 1600 persons, 18 years and older, completed a 24-hour recall in the BFCAS 2000. Fifty of 63 randomly selected residents (79% response rate) gave additional updated information on foods consumed. The 50 participants provided a one-time 24-hour recall and completed the draft QFFQ. The final instrument contains 148 items: breads, cakes, cereals = 17; rice, pastas, noodles = 8; dairy = 10; meat, fish, poultry = 42; fruit = 16; vegetables = 26; soft drinks = 14; alcoholic beverages = 5; others = 10. Additional questions include supplement use and food preparation methods such as grilling. The final instrument is concise, complete and the most up-to-date for assessing the food and nutrient intake of African-origin Barbadians and the associations with breast and prostate cancer.
17411470	To estimate the potential impact of zinc biofortification of rice and wheat on public health in India and to evaluate its cost-effectiveness compared with alternative interventions and international standards. The burden of zinc deficiency (ZnD) in India was expressed in disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) lost. Current zinc intakes were derived from a nationally representative household food consumption survey (30-day recall) and attributed to household members based on adult equivalent weights. Using a dose-response function, projected increased zinc intakes from biofortified rice and wheat were translated into potential health improvements for pessimistic and optimistic scenarios. After estimating the costs of developing and disseminating the new varieties, the cost-effectiveness of zinc biofortification was calculated for both scenarios and compared with alternative micronutrient interventions and international reference standards. India. Representative household survey (n = 119 554). The calculated annual burden of ZnD in India is 2.8 million DALYs lost. Zinc biofortification of rice and wheat may reduce this burden by 20-51% and save 0.6-1.4 million DALYs each year, depending on the scenario. The cost for saving one DALY amounts to $US 0.73-7.31, which is very cost-effective by standards of the World Bank and the World Health Organization, and is lower than that of most other micronutrient interventions. Not only may zinc biofortification save lives and prevent morbidity among millions of people, it may also help accommodate the need to economise and to allocate resources more efficiently. Further research is needed to corroborate these findings.
17412468	This paper reviews the concentrations of persistent organic pollutants such as flame retardants (PBDEs), dioxins/furans (PCDD/Fs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and heavy metals/metalloid concentrations of different environmental media at Guiyu, a traditional rice-growing village located in southeastern Guangdong Province (PR China), which has turned into an intensive electronic-waste (e-waste) recycling site. Incomplete combustion of e-waste in open air and dumping of processed materials are the major sources of various toxic chemicals. By comparing with existing data available in other areas and also guidelines adopted in different countries, it is obvious that the environment is highly contaminated by these toxic chemicals derived from the recycling processes. For example, the monthly concentration of the sum of 22 PBDE congeners contained in PM(2.5) (16.8ngm(-3)) of air samples at Guiyu was 100 times higher than published data. In order to safeguard the environment and human health, detailed investigations are urgently needed, especially on tracking the exposure pathways of different toxic chemicals which may affect the workers and local residents especially mothers, infants and children.
17412576	Microsatellites or simple sequence repeats (SSRs) occur ubiquitously and show complex patterns in length, motif size and sequence. Among SSRs, dinucleotide repeats occur in high abundance in fungi with shorter length as compared to other organisms. In this study, multilocus profiles obtained in Magnaporthe grisea, a model plant pathogen were evaluated. The results showed lower rate of polymorphism by (GT)(n)/(TG)(n) repeat-based primers and suggested occurrence of (GA)(n)/(AG)(n) repeats as integral repeats and (TC)(n)/(CT)(n) and (AC)(n)/(CA)(n) as non-integral repeats. Low repeat length variation was found to be correlated with less number of repeat motifs. The study provides an insight into the possibility of molecular coevolution of mobile elements and dinucleotide repeats in fungi. The study could be applied to other species for wider applications including evolutionary and population genetics.
17412585	Bacterial endosymbionts play essential roles for many organisms, and thus specialized mechanisms have evolved during evolution that guarantee the persistence of the symbiosis during or after host reproduction. The rice seedling blight fungus Rhizopus microsporus represents a unique example of a mutualistic life form in which a fungus harbors endobacteria (Burkholderia sp.) for the production of a phytotoxin. Here we report the unexpected observation that in the absence of endosymbionts, the host is not capable of vegetative reproduction. Formation of sporangia and spores is restored only upon reintroduction of endobacteria. To monitor this process, we succeeded in GFP labeling cultured endosymbionts. We also established a laserbeam transformation technique for the first controlled introduction of bacteria into fungi to observe their migration to the tips of the aseptate hyphae. The persistence of this fungal-bacterial mutualism through symbiont-dependent sporulation is intriguing from an evolutionary point of view and implies that the symbiont produces factors that are essential for the fungal life cycle. Reproduction of the host has become totally dependent on endofungal bacteria, which in return provide a highly potent toxin for defending the habitat and accessing nutrients from decaying plants. This scenario clearly highlights the significance for a controlled maintenance of this fungal-bacterial symbiotic relationship.
17412736	We identified the gene responsible for three allelic lazy1 mutations of Japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) by map-based cloning, complementation and RNA interference. Sequence analysis and database searches indicated that the wild-type gene (LAZY1) encodes a novel and unique protein (LAZY1) and that rice has no homologous gene. Two lazy1 mutants were LAZY1 null. Confirming and advancing the previously reported results on lazy1 mutants, we found the following. (i) Gravitropism is impaired, but only partially, in lazy1 coleoptiles. (ii) Circumnutation, observed in dark-grown coleoptiles, is totally absent from lazy1 coleoptiles. (iii) Primary roots of lazy1 mutants show normal gravitropism and circumnutation. (iv) LAZY1 is expressed in a tissue-specific manner in gravity-sensitive shoot tissues (i.e. coleoptiles, leaf sheath pulvini and lamina joints) and is little expressed in roots. (v) The gravitropic response of lazy1 coleoptiles is kinetically separable from that absent from lazy1 coleoptiles. (vi) Gravity-induced lateral translocation of auxin, found in wild-type coleoptiles, does not occur in lazy1 coleoptiles. Based on the genetic and physiological evidence obtained, it is concluded that LAZY1 is specifically involved in shoot gravitropism and that LAZY1-dependent and -independent signaling pathways occur in coleoptiles. It is further concluded that, in coleoptiles, only the LAZY1-dependent gravity signaling involves asymmetric distribution of auxin between the two lateral halves and is required for circumnutation.
17413115	Children participating in the Integrated Child Development Service (ICDS) in India have high rates of iron and vitamin A deficiency. The objective was to assess the efficacy of a premix fortified with iron and vitamin A and added at the community level to prepared khichdi, a rice and dal mixture, in increasing iron and vitamin A stores and decreasing the prevalence of iron deficiency, anemia, and vitamin A deficiency. This cluster, randomized, double-blind, controlled trial was initiated in 30 Anganwadi centers (daycare centers) in West Bengal state, India. Children aged 36-66 mo (n = 516) attending village-based ICDS centers were randomly assigned to receive either a fortified or a nonfortified premix for 24 wk. Blood was drawn at 0 and 24 wk by venipuncture for the measurement of hemoglobin, serum ferritin, and serum retinol. The change in the hemoglobin concentration of anemic children was significantly different between fortified and nonfortified khichdi groups (P < 0.001). Prevalence rates of anemia, iron deficiency, and iron deficiency anemia were significantly lower after 24 wk in the fortified-khichdi group than in the nonfortified-khichdi group (P < 0.001). There were no significant differences in serum retinol concentrations or in the prevalence of vitamin A deficiency between the fortified- and nonfortified-khichdi groups. A premix fortified with iron, vitamin A, and folic acid and added to supplementary food at the community level can be effective at increasing iron stores and reducing the prevalence of iron deficiency and anemia.
17415587	To date, the majority of plant small RNAs (sRNA) have been identified in rice, poplar and Arabidopsis. To identify novel tomato sRNAs potentially involved in tomato specific processes such as fruit development and/or ripening, we cloned 4,018 sRNAs from tomato fruit tissue at the mature green stage. From this pool of sRNAs, we detected tomato homologues of nine known miRNAs, including miR482; a poplar miRNA not conserved in Arabidopsis or rice. We identified three novel putative miRNAs with flanking sequence that could be folded into a stem-loop precursor structure and which accumulated as 19-24nt RNA. One of these putative miRNAs (Put-miRNA3) exhibited significantly higher expression in fruit compared with leaf tissues, indicating a specific role in fruit development processes. We also identified nine sRNAs that accumulated as 19-24nt RNA species in tomato but genome sequence was not available for these loci. None of the nine sRNAs or three putative miRNAs possessed a homologue in Arabidopsis that had a precursor with a predicted stem-loop structure or that accumulated as a sRNA species, suggesting that the 12 sRNAs we have identified in tomato may have a species specific role in this model fruit species.
17415624	Methyl jasmonate (MeJA) and methyl salicylate (MeSA) are important signaling molecules that induce plant defense against insect herbivores and microbial pathogens. We tested the hypothesis that allelopathy is an inducible defense mechanism, and that the JA and SA signaling pathways may activate allelochemicals release. Exogenous application of MeJA and MeSA to rice (Oryza sativa L.) enhanced rice allelopathic potential and led to accumulation of phenolics, an increase in enzymatic activities, and gene transcription of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and cinnamate 4-hydroxylase (C4H), two key enzymes in the phenylpropanoid pathway. Aqueous extracts of the leaves of rice IAC165, a putative allelopathic variety, treated with MeSA (5 mM) or MeJA (0.05 mM), showed increased inhibitory effects (25 and 21%, respectively) on root growth of barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crus-galli L.), and increased inhibitory effects (18 and 23%, respectively) on shoot growth. Aqueous extracts from leaves of Huajingxian 1 rice, a putative nonallelopathic variety treated with MeJA and MeSA, caused 63 and 24% inhibition of root growth in barnyardgrass seedlings. The root exudates of both IAC165 and Huajingxian 1 plants treated with MeJA and MeSA for 48 hr also showed significant increases in their inhibitory effects on root growth of barnyardgrass seedlings. At the four-leaf stage, levels of 3,4-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, coumaric acid, and ferulic acid that accumulated in the leaves were 5.3-, 31.3-, 2.2-, and 1.7-fold higher in response to MeJA exposure, and 3.3-, 13.1-, 2.0-, and 2.2-fold higher in response to MeSA. Treatments of MeSA and MeJA enhanced the PAL activity in the rice leaves up to 52.3 and 80.1%, respectively, whereas C4H activity was increased by 40.2 and 67%. Gene transcription of PAL and C4H in rice leaves significantly increased after the plants were subjected to treatment with MeJA and MeSA. These results suggest that allelopathy may be an active defense mechanism, and that plant signaling compounds are potentially valuable in its regulation.
17415667	A phosphate starvation-induced acid phosphatase cDNA was cloned from the rice, Oryza sativa. The cDNA encoding O. sativa acid phosphatase (OsACP1) has 1100 bp with an open reading frame of 274 amino acid residues. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsACP1 cDNA showed 53% identity to tomato acid phosphatase and 46-50% identity to several other plant phosphatases. OsACP1 expression was up-regulated in the rice plant and in cell culture in the absence of phosphate (Pi). The induced expression of OsACP1 was a specific response to Pi starvation, and was not affected by the deprivation of other nutrients. OsACP1 expression was responsive to the level of Pi supply, with transcripts of OsACP1 being abundant in Pi-deprived root. The OsACP1 cDNA was expressed as a 30 kDa polypeptide in baculovirus-infected insect Sf9 cells. In addition, the OsACP1 gene was introduced into Arabidopsis via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Functional expression of the OsACP1 gene in the transgenic Arabidopsis lines was confirmed by Northern blot and Western blot analyses, as well as phosphatase activity assays. These results suggest that the OsACP1 gene can be used to develop new transgenic dicotyledonous plants able to adapt to Pi-deficient conditions.
17416733	Chlorophyll degradation is an aspect of leaf senescence, which is an active process to salvage nutrients from old tissues. non-yellow coloring1 (nyc1) is a rice (Oryza sativa) stay-green mutant in which chlorophyll degradation during senescence is impaired. Pigment analysis revealed that degradation of not only chlorophylls but also light-harvesting complex II (LHCII)-bound carotenoids was repressed in nyc1, in which most LHCII isoforms were selectively retained during senescence. Ultrastructural analysis of nyc1 chloroplasts revealed that large and thick grana were present even in the late stage of senescence, suggesting that degradation of LHCII is required for the proper degeneration of thylakoid membranes. Map-based cloning of NYC1 revealed that it encodes a chloroplast-localized short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) with three transmembrane domains. The predicted structure of the NYC1 protein and the phenotype of the nyc1 mutant suggest the possibility that NYC1 is a chlorophyll b reductase. Although we were unable to detect the chlorophyll b reductase activity of NYC1, NOL (for NYC1-like), a protein closely related to NYC1 in rice, showed chlorophyll b reductase activity in vitro. We suggest that NYC1 and NOL encode chlorophyll b reductases with divergent functions. Our data collectively suggest that the identified SDR protein NYC1 plays essential roles in the regulation of LHCII and thylakoid membrane degradation during senescence.
17416896	We isolated an MgATG1 gene encoding a serine/threonine protein kinase from the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. In the DeltaMgatg1 mutant, in which the MgATG1 gene had been deleted, autophagy was blocked; the mutant also showed fewer lipid droplets in its conidia, lower turgor pressure of the appressorium, and such defects in morphogenesis as delayed initiation and slower germination of conidia. As a result of lower turgor pressure of the appressorium, the DeltaMgatg1 mutant lost its ability to penetrate and infect the two host plants, namely, rice and barley. However, normal values of the parameters and infective abilities were restored on reintroducing an intact copy of the MgATG1 gene into the mutant. Autophagy is thus necessary for turnover of organic matter during the formation of conidia and appressoria and for normal development and pathogenicity in M. grisea.
17417637	Grain weight is one of the most important components of grain yield and is controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTLs) derived from natural variations in crops. However, the molecular roles of QTLs in the regulation of grain weight have not been fully elucidated. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of GW2, a new QTL that controls rice grain width and weight. Our data show that GW2 encodes a previously unknown RING-type protein with E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, which is known to function in the degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Loss of GW2 function increased cell numbers, resulting in a larger (wider) spikelet hull, and it accelerated the grain milk filling rate, resulting in enhanced grain width, weight and yield. Our results suggest that GW2 negatively regulates cell division by targeting its substrate(s) to proteasomes for regulated proteolysis. The functional characterization of GW2 provides insight into the mechanism of seed development and is a potential tool for improving grain yield in crops.
17418187	A rapid technique based on dynamic microwave-assisted extraction coupled with on-line solid-phase extraction of high-performance liquid chromatography (DMAE-SPE-HPLC) has been developed. A TM(010) microwave resonance cavity built in the laboratory was applied to concentrate the microwave energy. The sample placed in the zone of microwave irradiation was extracted with 95% acetonitrile (ACN) aqueous solution which was driven by a peristaltic pump at a flow rate of 1.0 mL min(-1). The extraction can be completed in a recirculating system in 10 min. When a number of extraction cycles were completed, the extract (1 mL) was diluted on-line with water. Then the extract was loaded into an SPE column where the analytes were retained while the unretained matrix components were washed away. Subsequently, the analytes were automatically transferred from the SPE column to the analytical column and determined by UV detector at 238 nm. The technique was used for determination of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) in grains, including wheat, rice, corn and bean. The limits of detection of OCPs are in the range of 19-37 ng g(-1). The recoveries obtained by analyzing the four spiked grain samples are in the range of 86-105%, whereas the relative standard deviation (R.S.D.) values are <8.7% ranging from 1.2 to 8.7%. Our method was demonstrated to be fast, accurate, and precise. In addition, only small quantities of solvent and sample were required.
17419846	Oligonucleotide arrays were used to profile gene expression in dissected maize anthers at four stages: after-anther initiation, at the rapid mitotic proliferation stage, pre-meiosis, and meiotic prophase I. Nearly 9200 sense and antisense transcripts were detected, with the most diverse transcriptome present at the pre-meiotic stage. Three male-sterile mutants lacking a range of normal cell types resulting from a temporal progression of anther failure were compared with fertile siblings at equivalent stages by transcription profiles. The msca1 mutant has the earliest visible phenotype, develops none of the normal anther cell types and exhibits the largest deviation from fertile siblings. The mac1 mutant has an excess of archesporial derivative cells and lacks a tapetum and middle layer, resulting in moderate transcriptional deviations. The ms23 mutant lacks a differentiated tapetum and shows the fewest differences from fertile anthers. By combining the data sets from the comparisons between individual sterile and fertile anthers, candidate genes predicted to play important roles during maize anther development were assigned to stages and to likely cell types. Comparative analyses with a data set of anther-specific genes from rice highlight remarkable quantitative similarities in gene expression between these two grasses.
17420570	Members of the small family of Arabidopsis PSEUDO-RESPONSE REGULATORS (PRR1/TOC1, PRR3, PRR5, PRR7, and PRR9) play roles close to the circadian clock in Arabidopsis thaliana. We have reported that the rice (Oryza sativa) genome also encodes a set of PRR counterparts (designated OsPRR1, OsPRR37, OsPRR59, OsPRR73, and OsPRR95 respectively). To gain new insight into the molecular functions of OsPRRs, we carried out genetic complementation analyses by introducing two representative rice genes, OsPRR1 and OsPRR37, into the corresponding Arabidopsis loss-of-function mutants (toc1 and prr7 respectively). The results showed that these OsPRR and AtPRR genes are genetically interchangeable at least in part, suggesting the conserved clock-associated function of these OsPRRs.
17420602	The kinetics of glucoamylase-catalyzed hydrolysis of starch granules from six different botanical sources (rice, wheat, maize, cassava, sweet potato, and potato) was studied by the use of an electrochemical glucose sensor. A higher rate of hydrolysis was obtained as a smaller size of starch granules was used. The adsorbed amount of glucoamylase on the granule surface per unit area did not vary very much with the type of starch granules examined, while the catalytic constants of the adsorbed enzyme (k(0)) were determined to be 23.3+/-4.4, 14.8+/-6.0, 6.2+/-1.8, 7.1+/-4.1, 4.6+/-3.0, and 1.6+/-0.6 s(-1) for rice, wheat, maize, cassava, sweet potato, and potato respectively, showing that k(0) was largely influenced by the type of starch granules. A comparison of the k(0)-values in relation to the crystalline structure of the starch granules suggested that k(0) increases as the crystalline structure becomes dense.
17420749
17425114	A total of 30 bacteria were isolated from the rhizoplane of rice cv. BR29 cultivated in Mymensingh, Bangladesh and from the seedlings obtained from surface-sterilized seeds of BR29. Upon screening, 6 isolates showed varying levels of phosphate solubilizing activity in both agar plate and broth assays using National Botanical Research Institute's phosphate medium. The bacterial isolates were identified based on their phenotypic and 16S rRNA genes sequencing data as Acinetobacter sp. BR-12, Klebsiella sp. BR-15, Acinetobacter sp. BR-25, Enterobacter sp. BR-26, Microbacterium sp. BRS-1 and Pseudomonas sp. BRS-2. The BR-25 exhibited highest phosphate solubilizing activity followed by BR-15. They grew rapidly in the liquid medium at pH 5 and 7 but almost no growth occurred at pH 3. The pH value of the culture medium was decreased with bacterial growth suggesting that they might secrete organic acids to solubilize insoluble phosphorus. Scanning electron microscope analysis of two-week-old rice seedlings germinated from seeds previously inoculated with BR-25 and BR-15 revealed dense colonization at the root surfaces presumably using fimbriae on the bacterial cells.
17425713	Modern sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is an important grass that contributes 60% of the raw sugar produced worldwide and has a high biofuel production potential. It was created about a century ago through hybridization of two highly polyploid species, namely S. officinarum and S. spontaneum. We investigated genome dynamics in this highly polyploid context by analyzing two homoeologous sequences (97 and 126 kb) in a region that has already been studied in several cereals. Our findings indicate that the two Saccharum species diverged 1.5-2 million years ago from one another and 8-9 million years ago from sorghum. The two sugarcane homoeologous haplotypes show perfect colinearity as well as high gene structure conservation. Apart from the insertion of a few retrotransposable elements, high homology was also observed for the non-transcribed regions. Relative to sorghum, the sugarcane sequences displayed colinearity, with the exception of two genes present only in sorghum, and striking homology in most non-coding parts of the genome. The gene distribution highlighted high synteny and colinearity with rice, and partial colinearity with each homoeologous maize region, which became perfect when the sequences were combined. The haplotypes observed in sugarcane may thus closely represent the ancestral Andropogoneae haplotype. This analysis of sugarcane haplotype organization at the sequence level suggests that the high ploidy in sugarcane did not induce generalized reshaping of its genome, thus challenging the idea that polyploidy quickly induces generalized rearrangement of genomes. These results also confirm the view that sorghum is the model of choice for sugarcane.
17425722	Maize has a complex root system composed of different root types formed during different stages of development. The rtcs (rootless concerning crown and seminal roots) mutant is impaired in the initiation of the embryonic seminal roots and the post-embryonic shoot-borne root system. The primary root of the mutant shows a reduced gravitropic response, while its elongation, lateral root density and reaction to exogenously applied auxin is not affected. We report here the map-based cloning of the RTCS gene which encodes a 25.5 kDa LOB domain protein located on chromosome 1S. The RTCS gene has been duplicated during evolution. The RTCS-LIKE (RTCL) gene displays 72% sequence identity on the protein level. Both genes are preferentially expressed in roots. Expression of RTCS in coleoptilar nodes is confined to emerging shoot-borne root primordia. Sequence analyses of the RTCS and RTCL upstream genomic regions identified auxin response elements. Reverse transcriptase-PCR revealed that both genes are auxin induced. Microsynteny analyses between maize and rice genomes revealed co-linearity of 14 genes in the RTCS region. We conclude from our data that RTCS and RTCL are auxin-responsive genes involved in the early events that lead to the initiation and maintenance of seminal and shoot-borne root primordia formation.
17426057	Non-volatile sesquiterpenoids, a trichothecene family of phytotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON) and T-2 toxin, contain numerous molecular species and are synthesized by phytopathogenic Fusarium species. Although trichothecene chemotypes might play a role in the virulence of individual Fusarium strains, the phytotoxic action of individual trichothecenes has not been systematically studied. To perform a comparative analysis of the phytotoxic action of representative trichothecenes, the growth and morphology of Arabidopsis thaliana growing on media containing these compounds was investigated. Both DON and diacetoxyscirpenol (DAS) preferentially inhibited root elongation. DON-treated roots were less organized compared with control roots. Moreover, preferential inhibition of root growth by DON was also observed in wheat plants. In addition, T-2 toxin-treated seedlings exhibited dwarfism with aberrant morphological changes (e.g. petiole shortening, curled dark-green leaves, and reduced cell size). These results imply that the phytotoxic action of trichothecenes differed among their molecular species. Cycloheximide (CHX)-treated seedlings displayed neither feature, although it is known that trichothecenes inhibit translation in eukaryotic ribosomes. Microarray analyses suggested that T-2 toxin caused a defence response, the inactivation of brassinosteroid (BR), and the generation of reactive oxygen species in Arabidopsis. This observation is in agreement with our previous reports in which trichothecenes such as T-2 toxin have an elicitor-like activity when infiltrated into the leaves of Arabidopsis. Since it has been reported that BR plays an important role in a broad range of disease resistance in tobacco and rice, inactivation of BR might affect pathogenicity during the infection of host plants by trichothecene-producing fungi.
17426747	To determine the glycaemic index (GI) of various staple carbohydrate-rich foods in the UK diet, and to consider the factors influencing the GI of foods. Subjects were served with 25 or 50 g portions of glucose on three occasions, followed by a selection of test foods providing an equal amount of available carbohydrate, in random order. Each test food was consumed by 10 subjects. Capillary blood glucose levels were measured in the fasted state and over the 120 min following commencement of consumption of the foods. The study was carried out in a research institute (MRC Human Nutrition Research, Cambridge, UK). Forty-two healthy adult volunteers were studied. The GI values of 33 foods were measured according to the WHO/FAO recommended methodology. These foods included various breads, breakfast cereals, pasta, rice and potatoes, all of which were commercially available in the UK. The results illustrate a number of factors which are important in influencing the GI of a food, highlighting the importance of measuring the GI of a food, rather than assuming a previously published value for a similar food. This is useful both to researchers analysing dietary surveys or planning intervention studies, and also to health professionals advising individuals on their diets.
17426755	Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are nonautonomous elements that are abundant in plant genomes. The rice MITE mPing was shown to be mobilized by anther culture, and the associated transposon Pong was shown to transpose actively in an Oryza sativa 'indica' rice cell-culture line. We have identified 3 sequences in maize named ZmTPAPong-like 1, 2, and 3 that displayed homology with the transposase of Pong. Here, we show that these sequences are differentially expressed during the in vitro androgenetic process in maize. We also demonstrate that the ZmTPAPong-like 1 and 3 sequences reveal somaclonal variations among plants regenerated from the calli of a doubled haploid line. These data suggest that the ZmTPAPong-like sequences could form part of a Zea mays element related to the rice Pong element. The possible activation of this newly discovered element under stress conditions is discussed.
17426763	Three copies of the gene that encodes cytochrome c oxidase subunit Vb were isolated from the pea (PscoxVb-1, PscoxVb-2, and PscoxVb-3). Northern Blot and reverse transcriptase-PCR analyses suggest that all 3 genes are transcribed in the pea. Each pea coxVb gene has an N-terminal extended sequence that can encode a mitochondrial targeting signal, called a presequence. The localization of green fluorescent proteins fused with the presequence strongly suggests the targeting of pea COXVb proteins to mitochondria. Each pea coxVb gene has 5 intron sites within the coding region. These are similar to Arabidopsis and rice, although the intron lengths vary greatly. A phylogenetic analysis of coxVb suggests the occurrence of gene duplication events during angiosperm evolution. In particular, 2 duplication events might have occurred in legumes, grasses, and Solanaceae. A comparison of amino acid sequences in COXVb or its counterpart shows the conservation of several amino acids within a zinc finger motif. Interestingly, a homology search analysis showed that bacterial protein COG4391 and a mitochondrial complex I 13 kDa subunit also have similar amino acid compositions around this motif. Such similarity might reflect evolutionary relationships among the 3 proteins.
17426767	Flowering time (or days to heading) is an important characteristic in crop plants that affects adaptation to cropping cycles and growing seasons. The objectives of this study were to identify molecular markers associated with flowering time in 3 oat populations developed from Brazilian oat varieties, and to compare their map locations with those of other loci that might influence flowering time. Flowering time was studied in recombinant inbred lines from 3 hexaploid oat populations: UFRGS 8 x Pc68/5*Starter; UFRGS 881971 x Pc68/5*Starter; and UFRGS 8 x UFRGS 930605. Bulked segregant analysis, using amplified fragment length polymorphism, was followed by selective mapping in each population and in a reference population, 'Kanota' x 'Ogle' (KxO). One quantitative trait locus (QTL) with major effects on flowering time was identified in each cross. Comparative mapping showed that a major QTL, with earliness alleles originating from UFRGS 8 and UFRGS 881971, is in a region with close homology to KxO linkage group 17 and to a locus that reportedly confers day-length insensitivity in oat (Di1). This is the first report to identify the map location of the Di1 locus, and putatively confirm the presence of Di1 alleles in new germplasm. Further comparative mapping and the alignment of mapped oat markers with the sequenced rice genome suggest that this QTL and (or) Di1 is orthologous to the Hd1 locus in rice and the CONSTANS gene in Arabidopsis and other species. A different QTL with major effects segregated in the UFRGS 8 x UFRGS 930605 cross, where the early-flowering allele for Di1 was probably fixed. Two additional QTLs with smaller effects were identified in the UFRGS 8 x Pc68/5*Starter population. These results suggest that the Brazilian oat line UFRGS 8 contains an optimal set of alleles conditioning earliness under the short-day conditions of the Brazilian winter growing season, and that molecular selection could be used to introgress these alleles into other breeding material.
17427706	The succession of mosquito species and abiotic factors affecting their distribution and abundance in rice (Oryza spp.) fields was investigated over a 16-wk rice growing cycle covering the period between January and May 2006. Fifteen experimental rice plots were sampled for mosquito larvae and characterized based on rice height, number of tillers, floating vegetation cover, water depth, water temperature, turbidity, salinity, pH, dissolved oxygen, total dissolved solids, and conductivity. Microscopic identification of 3,025 larvae yielded nine mosquito species predominated by Anopheles arabiensis Patton (45.0%), Culex quinquefasciatus Say (35.8%), Anopheles pharoensis Theobald (9.0%) and Ficalbia splendens Theobald (7.1%). Other species, including Anopheles rufipes Gough, Anopheles coustani Laveran, Anonopheles maculipalpis Giles, Culex annulioris Theobald, and Culex poicilipes Theobald made up 3.1% of the total collection. Anopheles gambiae s.l., Cx. quinquefasciatus, and An. pharoensis occurred throughout the cycle, but they were more abundant up to 4 wk posttransplanting with peaks after fertilizer application. As rice plants became established, three groups of mosquitoes were recognized: the first groups included An. rufipes, Fl. splendens, and Cx. annulioris, which occurred throughout much of the second half of the rice cycle, whereas the second group included Cx. poicilipes, which was found in the middle of the rice cycle. An. coustani and An. maculipalpis formed the third group occurring toward the end of the cycle. Dissolved oxygen, number of tillers, and rice height were negatively associated with the abundance ofAn. arabiensis and Cx. quinquefasciatus larvae. In addition, Cx. quinquefasciatus also was associated with water depth (-ve) and turbidity (+ve). Abundance of An. pharoensis larvae was significantly associated with water temperature (+ve), the number of tillers (-ve), and rice height (-ve), whereas Fl. splendens was significantly associated with the number of tillers (+ve). The results demonstrate a complex nature of the interactions between some of the factors in the ecosystem and mosquito species abundance and calls for time-dependent and species-specific mosquito control operations.
17427815	Rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe grisea, is a devastating disease of rice throughout the world. Many recent molecular studies have focused on the early infection stages, but our knowledge about molecular events at the infectious hyphae stage is limited. In this study, 750 hygromycin-resistant transformants were isolated by transforming M. grisea Guyll with a promoterless enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) construct. In one of the transformants, L1320, EGFP signals were observed in the nuclei of infectious hyphae. The transforming vector was inserted in a predicted gene named MIR1 and resulted in a Mir1 1-107-EGFP fusion. Mir1 is a low-complexity protein with no known protein domain and has no homolog in GenBank or other sequenced fungal genomes. Quantitative real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis and expression assays of MIR1-EGFP fusion constructs indicated that the expression of MIR1 was highly induced during plant infection. Deletion analyses identified a 458-bp region that was sufficient for the MIR1 promoter activity. Further characterization revealed that a 96-bp sequence was essential for the enhanced in planta expression. MIR1 is an M. grisea-specific gene that is highly conserved among the field isolates belonging to the M. grisea species complex. The mir1 mutants had no obvious defects in appressorial penetration and rice infection. When overexpressed with the RP27 promoter, nuclear localization of the Mir1-EGFP fusion was observed in conidia and vegetative hyphae. These data suggest that the expression but not the nuclear localization of MIR1 is specific to infectious hyphae and that reporter genes based on MIR1 may be suitable for monitoring infectious growth in M. grisea.
17428339	Rice is both a food source for a majority of the world's population and an important model system. Available functional genomics resources include targeted insertion mutagenesis and transgenic tools. While these can be powerful, a non-transgenic, unbiased targeted mutagenesis method that can generate a range of allele types would add considerably to the analysis of the rice genome. TILLING (Targeting Induced Local Lesions in Genomes), a general reverse genetic technique that combines traditional mutagenesis with high throughput methods for mutation discovery, is such a method. To apply TILLING to rice, we developed two mutagenized rice populations. One population was developed by treatment with the chemical mutagen ethyl methanesulphonate (EMS), and the other with a combination of sodium azide plus methyl-nitrosourea (Az-MNU). To find induced mutations, target regions of 0.7-1.5 kilobases were PCR amplified using gene specific primers labeled with fluorescent dyes. Heteroduplexes were formed through denaturation and annealing of PCR products, mismatches digested with a crude preparation of CEL I nuclease and cleaved fragments visualized using denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. In 10 target genes screened, we identified 27 nucleotide changes in the EMS-treated population and 30 in the Az-MNU population. We estimate that the density of induced mutations is two- to threefold higher than previously reported rice populations (about 1/300 kb). By comparison to other plants used in public TILLING services, we conclude that the populations described here would be suitable for use in a large scale TILLING project.
17428569	A lack of effective, easily applied and stable formulation has been a major obstacle to widespread use of biocontrol agents for control of rice sheath blight. In this study, effervescent fast-disintegrating granules containing endospores of Bacillus megaterium were developed for use either by broadcast or spray application. The formulation composed of lactose, polyvinyl pyrrolidone K-30 (PVP, K-30) and effervescent base (citric acid, tartaric acid and sodium bicarbonate). The number of living bacteria in effervescent granules that performed mycelial growth inhibition was in the range of 10(9) CFU/g after 12 months storage at room temperature. The number of viable bacteria after applying into the water and spraying on the rice seedling for 7 days in the greenhouse tests were also satisfactory high (10(9) CFU/g of granules and 10(6) CFU/g of plant, respectively). The scanning electron microscope (SEM) was used to observe bacterial antagonist on the surface of leaf sheath and leaf blade after spraying with formulation. Effervescent formulation applied either broadcasting or spraying reduced incidence of sheath blight disease in the greenhouse experiments.
17428832	Salinity is a widespread soil problem limiting productivity of cereal crops worldwide. Rice is particularly sensitive to salt stress during the seedling stage, with consequent poor crop establishment, as well as during reproduction where salinity can severely disrupt grain formation and yield. Tolerance at the seedling stage is weakly associated with tolerance during reproduction. Physiological responses to salinity were evaluated for contrasting genotypes, during the seedling and reproductive stages. Three rice genotypes differing in their tolerance of salinity were evaluated in a set of greenhouse experiments under salt stress during both seedling stage and reproduction. Photosynthetic CO2 fixation, stomatal conductance (gs) and transpiration decreased substantially because of salt stress, but with greater reduction in the sensitive cultivar IR29. The tolerant lines IR651 and IR632 had more responsive stomata that tended to close faster during the first few hours of stress, followed by partial recovery after a brief period of acclimation. However, in the sensitive line, gs continued to decrease for longer duration and with no recovery afterward. Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements revealed that non-photochemical quenching increased, whereas the electron transport rate decreased under salt stress. Salt-tolerant cultivars exhibited much lower lipid peroxidation, maintained elevated levels of reduced ascorbic acid and showed increased activities of the enzymes involved in the reactive oxygen scavenging system during both developmental stages. Upregulation of the anti-oxidant system appears to play a role in salt tolerance of rice, with tolerant genotypes also maintaining relatively higher photosynthetic function; during both the vegetative and reproductive stages.
17428833	There is increased evidence that partial nitrate (NO3-) nutrition (PNN) improves growth of rice (Oryza sativa), although the crop prefers ammonium (NH4+) to NO3- nutrition. It is not known whether the response to NO3- supply is related to nitrogen (N) use efficiency (NUE) in rice cultivars. Methods Solution culture experiments were carried out to study the response of two rice cultivars, Nanguang (High-NUE) and Elio (Low-NUE), to partial NO3- supply in terms of dry weight, N accumulation, grain yield, NH4+ uptake and ammonium transporter expression [real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)]. A ratio of 75/25 NH4+ -N/NO3- -N increased dry weight, N accumulation and grain yield of 'Nanguang' by 30, 36 and 21 %, respectively, but no effect was found in 'Elio' when compared with those of 100/0 NH4+ -N/NO3- -N. Uptake experiments with 15N-NH4+ showed that NO3- increased NH4+ uptake efficiency in 'Nanguang' by increasing Vmax (14 %), but there was no effect on Km. This indicated that partial replacement of NH4+ by NO3- could increase the number of the ammonium transporters but did not affect the affinity of the transporters for NH4+. Real-time PCR showed that expression of OsAMT1s in 'Nanguang' was improved by PNN, while that in 'Elio' did not change, which is in accordance with the differing responses of these two cultivars to PNN. Conclusions Increased NUE by PNN can be attributed to improved N uptake. The rice cultivar with a higher NUE has a more positive response to PNN than that with a low NUE, suggesting that there might be a relationship between PNN and NUE.
17429742	Activation tagging, as the result of random genomic insertion of either promoter or enhancer sequences, can produce novel, dominant mutations by over-expression of endogenous genes. This powerful genomics tool has been used extensively in dicot species such as Arabidopsis, while rice is the only cereal for which an equivalent system exists. In this study we describe an activation tagging system in barley based upon the maize Ac/Ds transposable element system. A modified Ds element (UbiDs) containing two maize polyubiquitin promoters, transposed in families derived from multiple independent UbiDs transformants and generated new Ds insertion events at frequencies ranging from 0% to 52% per family. The majority of transposed UbiDs elements activated high levels of adjacent flanking sequence transcription. Transposon-mediated expression was detected in all barley cell and tissue types analysed suggesting that this system is applicable to all aspects of plant development and biogenesis. In addition to transcriptional activation, this system is also capable of generating insertional knockout mutants and a UbiDs inactivated allele of the granule bound starch synthase I gene (waxy) was recovered that lead to reduced amylose accumulation. The recovery and analysis of dominant over-expression phenotypes generated by this system will provide a novel approach to understanding gene function in large cereal genomes where gene redundancy may mask conventional loss-of-function mutations.
17430031	Infrared-ultraviolet hole-burning and hole-filling spectroscopies have been used to study IR-induced dissociation of the tryptamine.H2O and tryptamine.D2O complexes. Upon complexation of a single water molecule, the seven conformational isomers of tryptamine collapse to a single structure that retains the same ethylamine side chain conformation present in the most highly populated conformer of tryptamine monomer. Infrared excitation of the tryptamine.H2O complex was carried out using a series of infrared absorptions spanning the range of 2470-3715 cm-1. The authors have determined the conformational product yield over this range and the dissociation rate near threshold, where it is slow enough to be measured by our methods. The observed threshold for dissociation occurred at 2872 cm-1 in tryptamine.H2O and at 2869 cm-1 in tryptamine.D2O, with no dissociation occurring on the time scale of the experiment (approximately 2 micros) at 2745 cm-1. The dissociation time constants varied from approximately 200 ns for the 2869 cm-1 band of tryptamine.D2O to approximately 25 ns for the 2872 cm-1 band of tryptamine.H2O. This large isotope dependence is associated with a zero-point energy effect that increases the binding energy of the deuterated complex by approximately 190 cm-1, thereby reducing the excess energy available at the same excitation energy. At all higher energies, the dissociation lifetime was shorter than the pulse duration of our lasers (8 ns). At all wavelengths, the observed products in the presence of collisions are dominated by conformers A and B of tryptamine monomer, with small contributions from the other minor conformers. In addition, right at threshold (2869 cm-1), tryptamine.D2O dissociates exclusively to conformer A in the absence of collisions with helium, while both A and B conformational products are observed in the presence of collisions with helium. Using resolution-of-identity approximation to second-order Moller-Plesset binding energies extrapolated to the complete basis set limit and harmonic vibrational frequencies and transition states calculated at the density functional limit B3LYP/6-31+G* level of theory, Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) predictions for the dissociation, isomerization, and water shuttling rates as a function of energy are made. At threshold, the experimental dissociation rate is almost 10(3) faster than RRKM predictions. Reasons for this apparent non-RRKM behavior will be discussed.
17431025	In future climates, greater heat tolerance at anthesis will be required in rice. The effect of high temperature at anthesis on spikelet fertility was studied on IR64 (lowland indica) and Azucena (upland japonica) at 29.6 degrees C (control), 33.7 degrees C, and 36.2 degrees C tissue temperatures. The objectives of the study were to: (i) determine the effect of temperature on flowering pattern; (ii) examine the effect of time of day of spikelet anthesis relative to a high temperature episode on spikelet fertility; and (iii) study the interactions between duration of exposure and temperature on spikelet fertility. Plants were grown at 30/24 degrees C day/night temperature in a greenhouse and transferred to growth cabinets for the temperature treatments. Individual spikelets were marked with paint to relate fertility to the time of exposure to different temperatures and durations. In both genotypes the pattern of flowering was similar, and peak anthesis occurred between 10.30 h and 11.30 h at 29.2 degrees C, and about 45 min earlier at 36.2 degrees C. In IR64, high temperature increased the number of spikelets reaching anthesis, whereas in Azucena numbers were reduced. In both genotypes<or=1 h exposure to>or=33.7 degrees C at anthesis caused sterility. In IR64, there was no interaction between temperature and duration of exposure, and spikelet fertility was reduced by about 7% per degrees C>29.6 degrees C. In Azucena there was a significant interaction and spikelet fertility was reduced by 2.4% degrees Cd-1 above a threshold of 33 degrees C. Marking individual spikelets is an effective method to phenotype genotypes and lines for heat tolerance that removes any apparent tolerance due to temporal escape.
17432262	The sequencing of plant genomes which was completed a few years ago for Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa is currently underway for numerous crop plants of commercial value such as maize, poplar, tomato grape or tobacco. In addition, hundreds of thousands of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) are publicly available that may well represent 40-60% of the genes present in plant genomes. Despite its importance for life sciences, genome information is only an initial step towards understanding gene function (functional genomics) and deciphering the complex relationships between individual genes in the framework of gene networks. In this chapter we introduce and discuss means of generating and identifying genetic diversity, i.e., means to genetically perturb a biological system and to subsequently analyse the systems response, e.g., the changes in plant morphology and chemical composition. Generating and identifying genetic diversity is in its own right a highly powerful resource of information and is established as an invaluable tool for systems biology.
17433644	Endophytic populations were isolated from 2400 segments of Oryza sativa collected from Bhadra River Project Area, Southern India during December 2005 (Winter) and April 2006 (Summer). Overall colonization rates from surface sterilized tissues were 40.3% in roots and 25.83% in leaves during winter season, 20.15% in roots and 8.66% in leaves during summer season. Nineteen different fungal taxa, a Streptomyces sp. and bacterial species were isolated. Streptomyces sp., Chaetomium globosum, Penicillium chrysogenum, Fusarium oxysporum and Cladosporium cladosporioides were dominant endophytes in this study. Frequency of colonization between the sites, seasons and rice varieties were found to differ significantly. Dual culture studies revealed that C. globosum, P. chrysogenum and Streptomyces sp. are suitable candidates for extraction of biologically active compounds. Rice harbors many endophytic organisms and some of them have antagonistic properties against fungal pathogens.
17434115	A proteomic approach has been adopted to investigate the low-abundant proteins in rice leaf in response to cold stress. Rice seedlings were exposed to different temperatures, such as 5 or 10 degrees C, and samples were collected after different time course. To eliminate the high-abundant proteins in leaf tissues such as ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco), proteins were fractionated by polyethylene glycol (PEG). The elimination of Rubisco from the protein samples was confirmed by Western blot analysis. The PEG fractionated protein samples were separated by 2-DE and visualized by silver or CBB staining. A total 12 up-regulated protein spots were identified using the analysis of MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry or ESI MS/MS. We identified some novel proteins such as cysteine proteinase, thioredoxin peroxidase, a RING zinc finger protein-like, drought-inducible late embryogenesis abundant, and a fibrillin-like protein that had not yet been reported in the earlier reports on cold proteomic analysis. The identification of some novel low-abundant proteins in response to cold stress may provide a new homeostasis to develop enhanced cold tolerance transgenic plants. Thus, we propose that a PEG fractionation system can be used as an influential protein extraction method from the leaf samples, which can lead to knowledge of the expression pattern of low-abundant proteins in response to various biotic or abiotic stresses.
17434166	The Ajuga reptans L. galactan:galactan galactosyltransferase (ArGGT) is a vacuolar enzyme that synthesizes long-chain raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs), the major storage carbohydrates of this plant. ArGGT is structurally and functionally related to acid plant alpha-galactosidases (alpha-Gals) of the glycosylhydrolase family 27, present in the apoplast or the vacuole. Sequence comparison of acid alpha-Gals with ArGGT revealed that they all contain an N-terminal signal sequence and a highly similar core sequence. Additionally, ArGGT and some acid alpha-Gals contain C-terminal extensions with low sequence similarities to each other. Here, we show that the C-terminal pentapeptide, SLQMS, is a non-sequence-specific vacuolar sorting determinant. Analogously, we demonstrate that the C-terminal extensions of selected acid alpha-Gals from Arabidopsis, barley, and rice, are also non-sequence-specific vacuolar sorting determinants, suggesting the presence of at least one vacuolar form of acid alpha-Gal in every plant species.
17434609	A cDNA for the gene ZFP182, encoding a C2H2-type zinc finger protein, was cloned from rice by RT-PCR. ZFP182 codes an 18.2 kDa protein with two C2H2-type zinc finger motifs, one nuclear localization signal and one Leu-rich domain. The DLN-box/EAR-motif, which exists in most of plant C2H2-type zinc finger proteins, does not exist in ZFP182. The expression analysis showed that ZFP182 gene was constitutively expressed in leaves, culms, roots and spikes at the adult rice plants, and markedly induced in the seedlings by cold (4 degrees C), 150 mM NaCl and 0.1 mM ABA treatments. The approximate 1.4 kb promoter region of ZFP182 gene was fused into GUS reporter gene and transformed into tobacco. The histochemical analysis revealed that GUS expression could not be detected in transformed tobacco seedlings under normal conditions, but strongly observed in tobacco leaf discs and the vascular tissue of roots treated with NaCl or KCl. Expression of ZFP182 in transgenic tobacco and overexpression in rice increased plant tolerance to salt stress. These results demonstrated that ZFP182 might be involved in plant responses to salt stress.
17435277	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is the pathogen that causes bacterial leaf blight in rice. Bacterial leaf blight is the main cause for severe rice underproduction in many countries. However, with conventional methods it is difficult to quickly and reliably distinguish this pathogen from other closely related pathogenic bacteria, especially X. oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causal organism of bacterial leaf streak in rice. We have developed a novel and highly sensitive real-time method for the identification of this specific bacteria based on a TaqMan probe. This probe is designed to recognize the sequence of a putative siderophore receptor gene cds specific to X. oryzae pv. oryzae, and can be identified from either a bacterial culture or naturally infected rice seeds and leaves in only 2 h. The sensitivity of the method is 100 times higher than that of the current polymerase chain reaction (PCR) gel electrophoresis method for diagnosis.
17435318	We report here the isolation of a homologue of the potential anti-apoptotic gene, defender against apoptotic death (dad1)from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii cells.Using polymerase chain reaction (PCR),we investigated its expression in the execution process of programmed cell death (PCD)in UV-C exposed dying C.reinhardtii cells.Reverse- transcriptase (RT)-PCR showed that C.reinhardtii dad1 amplification was drastically reduced in UV-C exposed dying C.reinhardtii cells.We connect the downregulation of dad1 with the upregulation of apoptosis protease activating factor-1 (APAF-1)and the physiological changes that occur in C.reinhardtii cells upon exposure to 12 J/m 2 UV-C in order to show a reciprocal relationship between proapoptotic and inhibitor of apoptosis factors.The temporal changes indicate a correlation between the onset of cell death and dad1 downregulation.The sequence of the PCR product of the cDNA encoding the dad1 homologue was aligned with the annotated dad1 (C_20215)from the Chlamydomonas database (http://genome.jgi-psf.org:8080/annotator/servlet/jgi.annotation.Annotation?pDb=chlre2); Annotation?pDb=chlre2);this sequence was found to show 100% identity,both at the nucleotide and amino acid level. The 327 bp transcript showed an open reading frame of 87 amino acid residues.The deduced amino acid sequence of the putative C.reinhardtii DAD1 homologue showed 54% identity with Oryza sativa, 56 identity with Drosophila melanogaster, 66% identity with Xenopus laevis, and 64% identity with Homo sapiens,Sus scrofa,Gallus gallus,Rattus norvegicus and Mus musculus.
17438760	We report the largest market basket survey of arsenic (As) in U.S. rice to date. Our findings show differences in transitional-metal levels between polished and unpolished rice and geographical variation in As and selenium (Se) between rice processed in California and the South Central U.S. The mean and median As grain levels for the South Central U.S. were 0.30 and 0.27 mimcrog As g(-1), respectively, for 107 samples. Levels for California were 41% lower than the South Central U.S., with a mean of 0.17 microg As g(-1) and a median of 0.16 microg As g(-1) for 27 samples. The mean and median Se grain levels for the South Central U.S. were 0.19 microg Se g(-1). Californian rice levels were lower, averaging only 0.08 and 0.06 microg Se g(-1) for mean and median values, respectively. The difference between the two regions was found to be significant for As and Se (General Linear Model (GLM): As p < 0.001; Se p < 0.001). No statistically significant differences were observed in As or Se levels between polished and unpolished rice (GLM: As p= 0.213; Se p= 0.113). No significant differences in grain levels of manganese (Mn), cobalt (Co), copper (Cu), or zinc (Zn) were observed between California and the South Central U.S. Modeling arsenic intake for the U.S. population based on this survey shows that for certain groups (namely Hispanics, Asians, sufferers of Celiac disease, and infants) dietary exposure to inorganic As from elevated levels in rice potentially exceeds the maximum intake of As from drinking water (based on consumption of 1 L of 0.01 mg L(-1) In. As) and Californian state exposure limits. Further studies on the transformation of As in soil, grain As bioavailability in the human gastrointestinal tract, and grain elemental speciation trends are critical.
17439014	Two new compounds, 14-methyl stigmast-9(11)-en-3alpha-ol-3beta-D-glucopyranoside (1) and cholest-11-en-3beta, 6beta, 7alpha, 22beta-tetraol-24-one-3beta-palmitoleate (2), along with the known compound beta-sitosteryl-3beta-D-glucopyranosyl-6'-linoleiate (3), were isolated from the methanolic extract of rice (Oryza sativa) hulls. The structures of the two new compounds were elucidated using one- and two-dimensional NMR in combination with IR, EI/MS, FAB/MS, HR-EI/MS and HR-FAB/MS. In bioassays with blue-green algae, Microcystis aeruginosa UTEX 2388 and duckweed, Lemna paucicostata Hegelm 381, the efficacy of bioactivity of the two new compounds linearly increased as the concentration increased from 0.3 to 300 IgM. Compared with momilactone A, compounds 1 and 2 showed similar and higher inhibitory activities against the growth of M. aeruginosa at a concentration of 300 microM. However, compound 2 was similar to momilactone A in inhibiting L. paucicostata growth at a concentration of 300 microM. As a result, compound 2 appears to have a strong potential for the environmentally friendly control of weed and algae that are harmful to water-logged rice.
17439809	An outbreak of acute gastroenteritis occurred in September 2006 in a boarding school in eastern Austria. Of 113 cases, 101 were hospitalised. In order to identify the outbreak source, a retrospective cohort study on the group at risk was performed, including 222 pupils and 30 staff members. Food exposure in the canteen of the school was identified as the most relevant common link among the cases in the case series investigation. Although the preliminary microbiological investigation made Norovirus infections possible, an in-depth descriptive epidemiological investigation later pointed to food intoxication rather than a viral infection as the cause of the outbreak. The analytical epidemiological investigation implicated boiled rice and chicken wings served in the canteen as the most likely source of the outbreak. Staphylococcus aureus was identified as the causative agent. Further molecular characterisation revealed that the predominant S. aureus type in this outbreak was a new spa type, t2046. The same spa type was isolated from stool specimens of the majority of the cases investigated, from samples of the incriminated boiled rice, and also from a swab of a palmar skin lesion of one of the healthy kitchen workers, who is therefore the most likely source of contamination. This outbreak underlines again the importance of compliance with the basic guidelines for kitchen hygiene.
17439961	We report mapping of translocation breakpoints using a microarray. We used complex RNA to compare normal hexaploid wheat (17,000 Mb genome) to a ditelosomic stock missing the short arm of chromosome 1B (1BS) and wheat-rye translocations that replace portions of 1BS with rye 1RS. Transcripts detected by a probe set can come from all three Triticeae genomes in ABD hexaploid wheat, and sequences of homoeologous genes on 1AS, 1BS and 1DS often differ from each other. Absence or replacement of 1BS therefore must sometimes result in patterns within a probe set that deviate from hexaploid wheat. We termed these 'high variance probe sets' (HVPs) and examined the extent to which HVPs associated with 1BS aneuploidy are related to rice genes on syntenic rice chromosome 5 short arm (5S). We observed an enrichment of such probe sets to 15-20% of all HVPs, while 1BS represents approximately 2% of the total genome. In total 257 HVPs constitute wheat 1BS markers. Two wheat-rye translocations subdivided 1BS HVPs into three groups, allocating translocation breakpoints to narrow intervals defined by rice 5S coordinates. This approach could be extended to the entire wheat genome or any organism with suitable aneuploid or translocation stocks.
17439966	Wheat biologists face particular problems because of the lack of genomic sequence and the three homoeologous genomes which give rise to three very similar forms for many transcripts. However, over 1.3 million available public-domain Triticeae ESTs (of which approximately 850,000 are wheat) and the full rice genomic sequence can be used to estimate likely transcript sequences present in any wheat cDNA sample to which PCR primers may then be designed. Wheat Estimated Transcript Server (WhETS) is designed to do this in a convenient form, and to provide information on the number of matching EST and high quality cDNA (hq-cDNA) sequences, tissue distribution and likely intron position inferred from rice. Triticeae EST and hq-cDNA sequences are mapped onto rice loci and stored in a database. The user selects a rice locus (directly or via Arabidopsis) and the matching Triticeae sequences are assembled according to user-defined filter and stringency settings. Assembly is achieved initially with the CAP3 program and then with a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-analysis algorithm designed to separate homoeologues. Alignment of the resulting contigs and singlets against the rice template sequence is then displayed. Sequences and assembly details are available for download in fasta and ace formats, respectively. WhETS is accessible at http://www4.rothamsted.bbsrc.ac.uk/whets.
17440029
17441416	To analyze the results of a systematic survey of biological tests in a symptomatic pediatric population consulting for the exploration of a possible food allergy. 406 children included in this study, mean age 3.3+3.2 years (2 months-16 years), 159 girls and 247 boys, had cutaneous tests (Stallergnes, Paris, France), assaying of total and specific IgE, and RAST Fx5 (Pharmacia & Upjohn Diagnostics AB, Uppsala, Sweden). Those children suffering from eczema (34.9%), digestive disorders (26.1%), ORL and pulmonary (8.3%), anaphylactic choc (3.4%) or mixed symptoms (27.3%). The overall positivity of cutaneous tests, all confused age periods, was 34.1% with the following order: egg white (52%, p < 0.05 vs. other food), peanut (46%), egg yolk (42%), fish (34%), wheat (33%), soy (32%), cow's milk (24%) and rice (17%). It decreased significantly with age only for the egg white, 61% (0-1 year) and 68% (1-2 years) vs 31% (> 6 years), p < 0.05. The positivity of cutaneous tests for egg and peanut was more frequent with eczema than with digestive manifestations (64% vs. 44%, 57.6% vs. 34% and 56% vs. 38.7%, p < 0.05). The title of total IgE increased with age, r 0.5 p 0.001. The positivity of specific food IgE was more frequent at 4-6 years (68%) than at 0-1 year (36%), p < 0.05. It revealed, all confused age periods, the following order: egg white (74%) and peanut (64%), p < 0.05 vs. other food, cow's milk (59%), wheat (55%), soy (45%) and fish (24%). The number of high specific food IgE titers was significantly higher than the number of positive cutaneous tests by order of frequency; egg white, peanut, cow's milk, wheat and soy, p < 0.05; the reverse was observed for fish, p < 0.05. Percentage of subjects combining a high title of specific food IgE and a positive cutaneous test for egg white (39.4%) was significantly higher than the percentage of those combining a high RAST Fx5 title and a positive cutaneous test for at least one of 6 corresponding foods (25.2%), p < 0.05. The positivity of different food cutaneous tests, the rate of total and specific IgE titers and the agreement of the results varied according to age, food and symptoms.
17441463	This study was undertaken to evaluate the assay performance of two methods for measuring the water-holding capacity of the skin: Skicon-200 and Tewameter which determine the water content in the stratum corneum and transepidermal water loss, respectively. Based on these findings, we studied the effects of newly developed skin moisturizers made of plant ceramides. The within-run as well as day-to-day reproducibility of the methods were both satisfactory. When rice-derived NIPPN ceramide RC was used topically for 3 weeks by 23 healthy volunteers, the water content in the stratum corneum of the leg was significantly increased to 141% of the baseline value in comparison with that after placebo use (111%) (p < 0.05), and the transepidermal water-loss was significantly suppressed to 23% of the baseline in comparison with that after placebo use (39%) (p < 0.01). When 20 mg or 40 mg/day of corn-derived NIPPN ceramide CP was given orally for 3 weeks, the water content in the stratum corneum of the leg was significantly increased to 290% and 394% of the baseline value, respectively, in comparison with that after placebo administration (141%) (p <0.05), and the transepidermal water loss was suppressed to 33 and 14% (p < 0.05) of the baseline values, respectively, in comparison with that after placebo administration (69%). These data by Skicon-200 and Tewameter suggest that the two plant ceramides are promising as skin-moisturizing agents not only for topical use but also for oral use.
17443292	Cyclins, cyclin-dependent kinases, and a number of other proteins control the progression of plant cell cycle. Although extensive studies have revealed the roles of some cell cycle regulators and the underlying mechanisms in Arabidopsis, relatively a small number of cell cycle regulators were functionally analyzed in rice. In this study, we describe 41 regulators in the rice genome. Our results indicate that the rice genome contains a less number of the core cell cycle regulators than the Arabidopsis one does, although the rice genome is much larger than the Arabidopsis one. Eight groups of CDKs similar to those in Arabidopsis were identified in the rice genome through phylogenetic analysis, and the corresponding members in the different groups include E2F, CKI, Rb, CKS and Wee. The structures of the core cell regulators were relatively conserved between the rice and Arabidopsis genomes. Furthermore, the expression of the majority of the core cell cycle genes was spatially regulated, and the most closely related ones showed very similar patterns of expression, suggesting functional redundancy and conservation between the highly similar core cell cycle genes in rice and Arabidopsis. Following auxin or cytokinin treatment, the expression of the core cell cycle genes was either upregulated or downregulated, suggesting that auxin and/or cytokinin may directly regulate the expression of the core cell cycle genes. Our results provide basic information to understand the mechanism of cell cycle regulation and the functions of the rice cell cycle genes.
17443417	Gene flow from genetically modified (GM) crops to the same species or wild relatives is a major concern in risk assessment. Transgenic rice with insect and/or disease resistance, herbicide, salt and/or drought tolerance and improved quality has been successfully developed. However, data on rice gene flow from environmental risk assessment studies are currently insufficient for the large-scale commercialization of GM rice. We have provided data on the gene flow frequency at 17 distances between a GM japonica line containing the bar gene as a pollen donor and two indica hybrid rice varieties and four male-sterile (ms) lines. The GM line was planted in a 640 m2 in an isolated experimental plot (2.4 ha), which simulates actual conditions of rice production with pollen competition. Results showed that: (1) under parallel plantation at the 0-m zone, the transgene flow frequency to the ms lines ranged from 3.145 to 36.116% and was significantly higher than that to hybrid rice cultivars (0.037-0.045%). (2) Gene flow frequency decreased as the distance increased, with a sharp cutoff point at about 1-2 m; (3) The maximum distance of transgene flow was 30-40 m to rice cultivars and 40-150 m to ms lines. We believe that these data will be useful for the risk assessment and management of transgenic rice lines, especially in Asia where 90% of world's rice is produced and hybrid rice varieties are extensively used.
17444707	The photodissociation of 2-propyl leading to propene+H was investigated with nanosecond time resolution. A supersonic beam of isolated 2-propyl radicals was produced by pyrolysis of 2-bromopopane. The kinetic energy release of the H-atom photofragment was monitored as a function of excitation wavelength by photofragment Doppler spectroscopy via the Lyman-alpha transition. The loss of hydrogen atoms after excitation proceeds in alpha position to the radical center with a rate constant of 5.8x10(7) s-1 at 254 nm. Approximately 20% of the excess energy is deposited as translation in the H-atom photofragment. In contrast 1-propyl does not lose H atoms to a significant extent. The experimental results are compared to simple Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations. The possible reaction pathways are examined in hybrid density functional theory calculations.
17445256	The major intrinsic proteins (MIPs) facilitate the transport of water and neutral solutes across the lipid bilayers. Plant MIPs are believed to be important in cell division and expansion and in water transport properties in response to environmental conditions. More than 30 MIP sequences have been identified in Arabidopsis thaliana, maize and rice. Plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs), tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs), Nod26-like intrinsic protein (NIPs) and small and basic intrinsic proteins (SIPs) are subfamilies of plant MIPs. Despite sequence diversity, all the experimentally determined structures belonging to the MIP superfamily have the same "hour-glass" fold. We have structurally characterized 39 rice and 31 maize MIPs and compared them with that of Arabidopsis. Homology models of 105 MIPs from all three plant species were built. Structure-based sequence alignments were generated and the residues in the helix-helix interfaces were analyzed. Small residues (Gly/Ala/Ser/Thr) are found to be highly conserved as a group in the helix-helix interface of MIP structures. Individual families sometimes prefer one or another of the residues from this group. The narrow aromatic/arginine (ar/R) selectivity filter in MIPs has been shown to provide an important constriction for solute permeability. Ar/R regions were analyzed and compared between the three plant species. Seventeen TIP, NIP and SIP members from rice and maize have ar/R signatures that are not found in Arabidopsis. A subgroup of rice and maize NIPs has small residues in three of the four positions in the ar/R tetrad, resulting in a wider constriction. These MIP members could transport larger solute molecules. Small residues are group-conserved in the helix-helix interface of MIP structures and they seem to be important for close helix-helix interactions. Such conservation might help to preserve the hour-glass fold in MIP structures. Analysis and comparison of ar/R selectivity filters suggest that rice and maize MIPs could transport more diverse solutes than Arabidopsis MIPs. Thus the MIP members show conservation in helix-helix interfaces and diversity in aromatic/arginine selectivity filters. The former is related to structural stability and the later can be linked to functional diversity.
17445272	Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics because of its ability to tolerate drought and grow on poor soils. It is cultivated mostly by poor farmers in developing countries, with 80% of production taking place in the dry savannah of tropical West and Central Africa. Cowpea is largely an underexploited crop with relatively little genomic information available for use in applied plant breeding. The goal of the Cowpea Genomics Initiative (CGI), funded by the Kirkhouse Trust, a UK-based charitable organization, is to leverage modern molecular genetic tools for gene discovery and cowpea improvement. One aspect of the initiative is the sequencing of the gene-rich region of the cowpea genome (termed the genespace) recovered using methylation filtration technology and providing annotation and analysis of the sequence data. CGKB, Cowpea Genespace/Genomics Knowledge Base, is an annotation knowledge base developed under the CGI. The database is based on information derived from 298,848 cowpea genespace sequences (GSS) isolated by methylation filtering of genomic DNA. The CGKB consists of three knowledge bases: GSS annotation and comparative genomics knowledge base, GSS enzyme and metabolic pathway knowledge base, and GSS simple sequence repeats (SSRs) knowledge base for molecular marker discovery. A homology-based approach was applied for annotations of the GSS, mainly using BLASTX against four public FASTA formatted protein databases (NCBI GenBank Proteins, UniProtKB-Swiss-Prot, UniprotKB-PIR (Protein Information Resource), and UniProtKB-TrEMBL). Comparative genome analysis was done by BLASTX searches of the cowpea GSS against four plant proteomes from Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Medicago truncatula, and Populus trichocarpa. The possible exons and introns on each cowpea GSS were predicted using the HMM-based Genscan gene predication program and the potential domains on annotated GSS were analyzed using the HMMER package against the Pfam database. The annotated GSS were also assigned with Gene Ontology annotation terms and integrated with 228 curated plant metabolic pathways from the Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) knowledge base. The UniProtKB-Swiss-Prot ENZYME database was used to assign putative enzymatic function to each GSS. Each GSS was also analyzed with the Tandem Repeat Finder (TRF) program in order to identify potential SSRs for molecular marker discovery. The raw sequence data, processed annotation, and SSR results were stored in relational tables designed in key-value pair fashion using a PostgreSQL relational database management system. The biological knowledge derived from the sequence data and processed results are represented as views or materialized views in the relational database management system. All materialized views are indexed for quick data access and retrieval. Data processing and analysis pipelines were implemented using the Perl programming language. The web interface was implemented in JavaScript and Perl CGI running on an Apache web server. The CPU intensive data processing and analysis pipelines were run on a computer cluster of more than 30 dual-processor Apple XServes. A job management system called Vela was created as a robust way to submit large numbers of jobs to the Portable Batch System (PBS). CGKB is an integrated and annotated resource for cowpea GSS with features of homology-based and HMM-based annotations, enzyme and pathway annotations, GO term annotation, toolkits, and a large number of other facilities to perform complex queries. The cowpea GSS, chloroplast sequences, mitochondrial sequences, retroelements, and SSR sequences are available as FASTA formatted files and downloadable at CGKB. This database and web interface are publicly accessible at http://cowpeagenomics.med.virginia.edu/CGKB/.
17445827	Detached leaf bioassays, open field tests and cage tests were conducted to evaluate the control efficacy of two transgenic rice lines, expressing Cry1Ac and CpTI, against Cnaphalocrocis medinalis (Guene) during 2005-2006 in Fuzhou, China. Bioassay results showed that cumulative feeding areas of C. medinalis on transgenic lines were significantly lower than that on control rice lines at different developmental stages. The corrected mortalities at 96 h after infestation on transgenic lines during six rice growth stages were >90% and 100% during experiments conducted in 2005 and 2006, respectively. In the open field test, there was no significant difference in egg density between transgenic and control lines during early days of infestation, but significant differences were detected in late season, due to serious damage on control lines. Larval densities on control lines were significantly higher than the low larval populations observed on transgenic lines during both seasons. The percentages of plants with folded leaves and percentages of folded leaves on transgenic lines were significantly lower than that on control lines with and without insecticide applications, during the entire season. In cage tests the cumulative numbers of C. medinalis adults derived from transgenic lines were significantly lower than that from control lines with and without insecticide treatments. The high level of efficacy of the two transgenic rice lines against C. medinalis may provide an important basis for reduced insecticide applications, an expansion of alternative pest-control strategies and insect resistance management of Bt rice in the future.
17446093	The effect of feeding whole crop rice (WCR) to growing-finishing pigs at three levels 0 (Control), 10% and 20% on bacterial communities in colon content and feces was analyzed using 16S rDNA-based techniques. Amplicons of the V6-V8 variable regions of bacterial 16S rDNA were analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), cloning and sequencing. The total number of DGGE bands and Shannon index of diversity for feces samples were higher in the pigs fed WCR-containing diets compared with the control, while a decrease trend was observed in these two parameters for colon content samples with the inclusion of WCR in the diets, although statistical differences were not significant. In general, the intestinal bacterial communities were prone to form the cluster for pig fed the same diet. Feeding of WCR induced the presence of special DGGE band with the sequence showing 99% similarity to that of Lactobacillus reuteri (DSM 20016T). The sequences of seven amplicons in total nine clones showed less than 97% similarity with those of previously identified or unidentified bacteria, suggesting that most bacteria in gastrointestinal tracts have not been cultured or identified. The results suggest that the diet containing WCR did not affect the major groups of bacteria, but stimulated the growth of L. reuteri-like species.
17446162	Twenty-five years after the beggining of the policies of adjustment and liberalization which is the situation of the food crops in the countries of the Sahel? The balance-sheet is approached by contrasting the cereals sub sector, facing to a very strong control by the State, and the onion whose growth is related to the increase in the demand of the great urban centers. The increase in the production of cereals was accompanied by deep changes in the structures. The market became more efficient and better integrated on a regional scale. But, the level and the instability of the prices of cereals increased, making difficult the provisioning of the poor. Clear differences in trajectories appear. Mali, which implemented a policy of reforming cereals market and successful the revival of rice sector, must manage at the same time the improvement of the competitiveness of its cereals and the access to cereals of the low incomes consumers. Niger must face the increase in the vulnerability of a great part of the rural households. The production of onion experienced a spectacular increase in Senegal after the devaluation of franc FCA in response to the urban market. That of Niger intended mainly for the close countries progressed more slowly. But in both cases, the regulation of the European onion imports constitutes a paramount stake.
17446351	Florigen, the mobile signal that moves from an induced leaf to the shoot apex and causes flowering, has eluded identification since it was first proposed 70 years ago. Understanding the nature of the mobile flowering signal would provide a key insight into the molecular mechanism of floral induction. Recent studies suggest that the Arabidopsis FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) gene is a candidate for encoding florigen. We show that the protein encoded by Hd3a, a rice ortholog of FT, moves from the leaf to the shoot apical meristem and induces flowering in rice. These results suggest that the Hd3a protein may be the rice florigen.
17446396	Intercellular protein movement plays a critical role in animal and plant development. SHORTROOT (SHR) is a moving transcription factor essential for endodermis specification in the Arabidopsis root. Unlike diffusible animal morphogens, which form a gradient across multiple cell layers, SHR movement is limited to essentially one cell layer. However, the molecular mechanism is unknown. We show that SCARECROW (SCR) blocks SHR movement by sequestering it into the nucleus through protein-protein interaction and a safeguard mechanism that relies on a SHR/SCR-dependent positive feedback loop for SCR transcription. Our studies with SHR and SCR homologs from rice suggest that this mechanism is evolutionarily conserved, providing a plausible explanation why nearly all plants have a single layer of endodermis.
17447911	Class I Knotted-like homeobox (KNOX) transcription factors are important regulators of shoot apical meristem function and leaf morphology by their contribution to dissected leaf development. Palms are of particular interest as they produce dissected leaves generated by a distinct mechanism compared with eudicots. The question addressed here was whether class I KNOX genes might be involved in meristem function and leaf dissection in palms. Here, we characterized the EgKNOX1 gene from oil palm (Elaeis guineensis, Arecaceae) and compared it with available sequences from other plant species using phylogenetic analysis. Gene expression pattern was investigated using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and in situ hybridization. Functional analysis was carried out by ectopic expression in Arabidopsis and rice. EgKNOX1 was orthologous to STM from Arabidopsis and to OSH1 from rice. It was expressed in the central zone of both vegetative and reproductive meristems. During leaf development, its expression was associated with plications from which the leaflets originate. Different modes of leaf dissection are seen to involve a similar class of genes to control meristematic activities, which govern the production of dissected morphologies.
17448674	The Beyer-Swinehart (BS) algorithm, which calculates vibrational state density and sum, was modified for simultaneous treatment of degenerate vibrations. The modified algorithm was used in the grouped-frequency mode of the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) unimolecular reaction rate constant calculation for proteins with relative molecular mass as large as 100,000. Compared to the original BS method, reduction in computation time by a factor of around 3000 was achieved. Even though large systematic errors arising from frequency grouping were observed for state densities and sums, they more or less canceled each other, thus enabling reliable rate constant calculation. The present method is thought to be adequate for efficient and reliable RRKM calculations for any macromolecule in the gas phase such as the molecular ions of proteins, nucleic acids, and carbohydrates generated inside a mass spectrometer. The algorithm can also be used to calculate the internal energy distribution of a macromolecule at thermal equilibrium.
17449639	Iron (Fe) deficiency is a worldwide agricultural problem on calcareous soils with low-Fe availability due to high soil pH. Rice plants use a well documented phytosiderophore-based system (Strategy II) to take up Fe from the soil and also possess a direct Fe2+ transport system. Rice plants are extremely susceptible to low-Fe supply, however, because of low phytosiderophore secretion and low Fe3+ reduction activity. A yeast Fe3+ chelate-reductase gene refre1/372, selected for better performance at high pH, was fused to the promoter of the Fe-regulated transporter, OsIRT1, and introduced into rice plants. The transgene was expressed in response to a low-Fe nutritional status in roots of transformants. Transgenic rice plants expressing the refre1/372 gene showed higher Fe3+ chelate-reductase activity and a higher Fe-uptake rate than vector controls under Fe-deficient conditions. Consequently, transgenic rice plants exhibited an enhanced tolerance to low-Fe availability and 7.9x the grain yield of nontransformed plants in calcareous soils. This report shows that enhancing the Fe3+ chelate-reductase activity of rice plants that normally have low endogenous levels confers resistance to Fe deficiency.
17449648	Organogenesis in plants is controlled by meristems. Axillary meristems, which give rise to branches and flowers, play a critical role in plant architecture and reproduction. Maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa) have additional types of axillary meristems in the inflorescence compared to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and thus provide an excellent model system to study axillary meristem initiation. Previously, we characterized the barren inflorescence2 (bif2) mutant in maize and showed that bif2 plays a key role in axillary meristem and lateral primordia initiation in the inflorescence. In this article, we cloned bif2 by transposon tagging. Isolation of bif2-like genes from seven other grasses, along with phylogenetic analysis, showed that bif2 is a co-ortholog of PINOID (PID), which regulates auxin transport in Arabidopsis. Expression analysis showed that bif2 is expressed in all axillary meristems and lateral primordia during inflorescence and vegetative development in maize and rice. Further phenotypic analysis of bif2 mutants in maize illustrates additional roles of bif2 during vegetative development. We propose that bif2/PID sequence and expression are conserved between grasses and Arabidopsis, attesting to the important role they play in development. We provide further support that bif2, and by analogy PID, is required for initiation of both axillary meristems and lateral primordia.
17449652	The modification of an endogenous gene into a designed sequence by homologous recombination, termed gene targeting (GT), has broad implications for basic and applied research. Rice (Oryza sativa), with a sequenced genome of 389 Mb, is one of the most important crops and a model plant for cereals, and the single-copy gene Waxy on chromosome 6 has been modified with a frequency of 1% per surviving callus by GT using a strong positive-negative selection. Because the strategy is independent of gene-specific selection or screening, it is in principle applicable to any gene. However, a gene in the multigene family or a gene carrying repetitive sequences may preclude efficient homologous recombination-promoted GT due to the occurrence of ectopic recombination. Here, we describe an improved GT procedure whereby we obtained nine independent transformed calli having the alcohol dehydrogenase2 (Adh2) gene modified with a frequency of approximately 2% per surviving callus and subsequently isolated eight fertile transgenic plants without the concomitant occurrence of undesirable ectopic events, even though the rice genome carries four Adh genes, including a newly characterized Adh3 gene, and a copy of highly repetitive retroelements is present adjacent to the Adh2 gene. The results indicate that GT using a strong positive-negative selection can be widely applicable to functional genomics in rice and presumably in other higher plants.
17450740	The study with stronger tillering hybrid rice ' D-you 527' showed that the more the irregularity of the seedlings horizontal distribution, the more colony stem-tillers the plants would have. Such a difference was significant 34 days after transplanting, but not significant at full heading stage. After transplanting, the trend that the variation coefficient increased with increasing irregularity of horizontal distribution presented gradually, and the difference became significant after jointing stage. Comparing with uniform distribution, an irregular horizontal distribution of the seedlings could benefit the canopy light transmittance rate and the panicle characteristics of rice.
17450751	In a water culture experiment, rice seedlings were grown in a nutrient solution containing 10 micromol Cd x L(-1), and harvested after different durations of growth. Two treatments were installed, i. e. , adding 50 mg Fe2+ x L(-1) to induce the formation of iron coating on seedlings root surface (treatment Fe50), and the control. The study on the dynamics of the Cd adsorption on root surface and of the Cd uptake by plant showed that both in the treatment Fe50 and in the control, the amount of adsorbed Cd on root surface was the highest in the first 2 hours, decreased dramatically then and remained relatively stable thereafter, while the Cd concentrations in roots and shoots increased slowly within the first 8 hours and rapidly then. The increment of Cd concentrations in roots and shoots was smaller in treatment Fe50 than in the control, and the amounts of adsorbed and absorbed Cd also showed the same picture, suggesting that the iron coating on rice root surface had little effect on the dynamics of Cd content in different parts of rice seedlings, and the reduced Cd uptake in treatment Fe50 was probably relevant with the Fe concentration in roots.
17450752	This paper studied the effects of exotic and native dissolved organic matter (DOM) on the phenanthrene adsorption by three soils differed in soil organic carbon content (foc). The exotic DOM came from decayed rice straw, while the native DOM was extracted from the test soils. In all cases, the adsorption of phenanthrene by treated soils could be well described with linear-type model, and there was a positive correlation between adsorption coefficient (Kd) and foc Compared with the control, the Kd value of test soils after native DOM removed was increased by 7. 08% -21. 4% , and the increment (deltaKd) was positively correlated with fo,, indicating that the presence of soil native DOM impeded the phenanthrene adsorption by soil. The effects of exotic DOM on phenanthrene adsorption had a close relation with its added concentration in soil-water system. Within the range of 0-106 mg DOC x L(-1) , the K, value increased first, and then decreased with the increase of added exotic DOM concentration. Lower concentrations of added exotic DOM promoted the phenanthrene adsorption by soil, while higher concentrations (I> or =52 mg DOC x L(-1)) of it obviously impeded this adsorption. These effects of exotic and native DOM on soil phenanthrene adsorption were considered to be related to the association of phenanthrene with DOM in solution, and the ' cumulative adsorption effect' between soil solid and aqueous phases.
17451522	To evaluate the fermentation characteristics and the effects of Lactobacillus buchneri inoculation in ensiling whole crop rice. Laboratory-scale silages were prepared from whole crop rice harvested at yellow-ripe stage. The crop was ensiled for 2 months with and without inoculation of L. buchneri at 10(4), 10(5) and 10(6) CFU g(-1). The effect of prolonged ensiling was also studied by using the same crop; the silos were opened at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months, while the inoculation was made at 10(5) CFU g(-1). Enhanced alcoholic fermentation was found in untreated silage; the sum of ethanol and 2,3-butanediol were seven times higher at 2 months than those of lactic and volatile fatty acids, while the differences were diminished at 12 months owing to the reduction of ethanol in the late ensiling period. Inoculation of L. buchneri inhibited the alcohols; however, ethanol yet prevailed over the fermentation until 6 months, after which acetic acid became the main product in the inoculated silage. Regardless of inoculation and ensiling period, yeasts were not found in whole crop rice silage. Substantial amounts of ethanol and 2,3-butanediol would be produced in silage prepared from whole crop rice. The alcoholic fermentation can be suppressed when inoculated with L. buchneri. Inoculation of L. buchneri could be an option to prevent ethanol fermentation in silage.
17451783	Effects of different herbicides on acetylcholinesterase (AChE), catalase and TBARS formation in teleost fish (Leporinus obtusidens) were studied. Fish were exposed during 30 days at concentrations of herbicides used in rice field. AChE activity in the brain decreased significantly after exposure to the herbicides clomazone and quinclorac. However, AChE activity increased significantly in muscle tissue after exposure to clomazone, propanil and metsulfuron methyl. Fish exposed to quinclorac, propanil and metsulfuron methyl showed TBARS decreased levels in brain and muscle tissues. However, TBARS and catalase activity increased in liver tissue after clomazone and propanil exposure. This study pointed out long-term effects on AChE activity, oxidative stress and antioxidant enzyme catalase in tissues of L. obtusidens after exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of rice field herbicides. These parameters have been used to monitor fish toxicity in rice field system.
17452422	Microsatellite (MS) polymorphism is an important source of genetic diversity, providing support for map-based cloning and molecular breeding. We have developed a new database that contains 52 845 polymorphic MS loci between indica and japonica, composed of ample Class II MS markers, and integrated 18 828 MS loci from IRGSP and genetic markers from RGP. Based on genetic marker positions on the rice genome (http://rise.genomics.org.cn/rice2/index.jsp), we determined the approximate genetic distances of these MS loci and validated 100 randomly selected markers experimentally with 90% success rate. In addition, we recorded polymorphic MS positions in indica cv. 9311 that is the most important paternal parent of the two-line hybrid rice in China. Our database will undoubtedly facilitate the application of MS markers in genetic researches and marker-assisted breeding. The data set is freely available from www.wigs.zju.edu.cn/achievment/polySSR.
17452801	Percentage of grains with chalkiness (PGWC), one of the important traits assessing rice grain appearance quality, belonged to qualitative trait controlled by many genes. Our previous study identified a novel quantitative trait locus (QTL), namely qPGWC-9, related to high PGWC using chromosomal segment substitution line (CSSL) population. qPGWC-9 was shown to be expressed stably in eight environments. AIS82 which carried a IR24 chromosomal segment corresponding to qPGWC-9 in the Asominori genetic background was selected and analyzed to clarify the physiological function of qPGWC-9 from the relationship of source and sink of carbohydrates. It showed that AIS82 had higher PGWC than Asominori (control variety with low PGWC). The net photosynthetic rate of flag leaf of AIS82 showed no significant difference from that of Asominori, so photosynthetic ability in flag leaf was not directly related with high PGWC in AIS82. But, the changes in pattern of activity of the key enzymes associated with starch synthesis were different in these plants. Activities of some key enzymes in starch synthesis in AIS82 changed more radically than those in Asominori. These results suggest that qPGWC-9 might determine the activities of some enzymes associated with starch synthesis and therefore affect the degree of grain chalkiness.
17452999	Previous studies have demonstrated the possible role of several aquaporins in seed germination. But systematic investigation of the role of aquaporin family members in this process is lacking. Here, the developmental regulation of plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PIP) expression throughout germination and post-germination processes in rice embryos was analyzed. The expression patterns of the PIPs suggest these aquaporins play different roles in seed germination and seedling growth. Partial silencing of the water channel genes, OsPIP1;1 and OsPIP1;3, reduced seed germination while over-expression of OsPIP1;3 promoted seed germination under water-stress conditions. Moreover, spatial expression analysis indicates that OsPIP1;3 is expressed predominantly in embryo during seed germination. Our data also revealed that the nitric oxide (NO) donors, sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), promoted seed germination; furthermore, the NO scavenger, 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide, inhibited germination and reduced the stimulative effects of SNP and GSNO on rice germination. Exogenous NO stimulated the transcription of OsPIP1;1, OsPIP1;2, OsPIP1;3 and OsPIP2;8 in germinating seeds. These results suggest that water channels play an important role in seed germination, acting, at least partly, in response to the NO signaling pathway.
17453278	The Kathmandu Valley in Nepal has experienced a very rapid increase in population resulting in considerable land use/land cover change and also a series of environmental problems. One of the results of the population increase is an expansion of brick manufacturing within the Valley because most structures are brick. The brick kilns are intense in several locations of the Valley and have an interesting pattern of using the same lands for bricks during the dry season and then conversion to rice during the wet, summer monsoon months. The increase in brick production has contributed to environmental problems including decreased soil productivity, lowered ground water levels, and particularly air pollution. Brick manufacturing has little, if any, effective regulation. There is a lack of current, accurate data on brick production that could be resolved by remote sensing methods. Controls should be established and more information acquired on the location and impacts of brick production.
17453333	Isolation of disease resistance gene analogs (RGAs) using the conserved motifs of the resistance genes has attracted considerable attention since it was first reported more than a decade ago. In this study, RGAs are isolated using homology-based PCR to target the nucleotide binding site (NBS) conserved regions from hexaploid wheat varieties and a few accessions of wild types. Based on sequence similarity analysis, 83 of the sequenced clones were clustered as groups. Of these RGAs, 40 were in the NBS-LLR class, containing kinase-1a (GGVGKTT or GGVGKTA), kinase-2 (KRFLIVLDDXW), kinase-3a (GSXIVVITTR or GCXVLATTR), and the GLPL motif of the NBS-spanning region. Among these, 15 contained possible intron regions, similar to Avena sativa O2 NBS-LLR type disease resistance gene (AF078874), and one to Rpm1 of rice and Yr10 and Lr10 of wheat. To our knowledge, this is the first observation of an intronic site within the P-loop domain of wheat RGAs. We detected an unspecified motif (VMVCVS) between the kinase-1a and kinase-2 domains within our clones. Additionally, one of the clones showed replacement with the kinase-3a motif with an undefined sequence.
17453423	The aim of the study was to assess dental fluorosis (DF) in the deciduous and permanent teeth of children in areas with high-F coal (area A) and high-F water (area C) compared to children from area B, with low-F water and coal. 596 children were examined. DF was assessed by TF-score. F-content of indoor air, drinking water, coal, tea, rice, and maize was analyzed. F-content of air and coal ranged from 3.2 microg/m(3) and 25.8 mg/kg (area B), 3.8 microg/m(3) and 36.3 mg/kg (area C) to 56.8 microg/m(3) and 713.1 mg/kg (area A). Likewise, mean F-content of water ranged from approximately 0.50 mg/l (areas A and B) to 3.64 mg/l (area C). F-content of tea leaves was similar in all three areas. Maize and rice contained <5 mg F/kg. Prevalence of primary teeth with DF was 49.1%, 2.0%, and 66.8% in areas A, B, and C, respectively. Similarly, DF was found in 96.7% (area A), 19.6% (area B), and 94.4% (area C) of the permanent teeth. Severe fluorosis (TF > or = 5) was found in area A (47.0%) and area C (36.1%) (p<0.01). Early erupting teeth had slightly higher mean TF-scores in area A than in area C. DF was prevalent in both dentitions in areas A and C. Similarity in percentages of DF may indicate that indoor air with approximately 60 microg F/m(3) and drinking water with 3.6 mg F/L are similarly toxic to developing permanent teeth. The percentage of deciduous teeth with DF was significantly lower in area A compared to area C. Where low-F coal and low-F water were used (area B), approximately 20% of permanent teeth had DF, indicating a relatively low tolerance to fluoride in Chinese children brought up under the present living conditions.
17455437	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between self-assessed satisfaction with mastication and food acceptability and masticatory performance in a large sample of older adults with various occlusal statuses. The subjects were 708 community-dwelling, independently living elderly persons (351 men and 357 women) with a mean age of 66.0 (SD: 4.2) years. Satisfaction with masticatory function and food acceptability (apples, grilled beef, and hard rice crackers) were evaluated using questionnaires. Masticatory performance was determined using test gummy jellies developed for measuring masticatory performance. Subjects were grouped into 3 categories by posterior occlusal contacts according to the Eichner Index. The Kruskal-Wallis test and a multiple logistic regression analysis for dissatisfaction with masticatory function were conducted. Overall, posterior occlusal contacts, food acceptability, and masticatory performance were associated with satisfaction with masticatory function when evaluated with bivariate analysis. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that the number of foods that could be eaten without difficulty was the most important explanatory variable for dissatisfaction with masticatory function (P < .01). In contrast, objective masticatory performance was not significantly associated with dissatisfaction with masticatory function (P = .057) after controlling for posterior occlusal contacts and food acceptance. The subjective masticatory function was associated not only with objective masticatory performance, but also with an individual's posterior occlusal contacts.
17455922	Ammonium radicals derived from protonated beta-alanine N-methyl amide (BANMA) were generated by femtosecond collisional electron transfer to gas-phase cations prepared by chemical ionization and electrospray. Regardless of the mode of precursor ion preparation, the radicals underwent complete dissociation on the time scale of 5.15 micros. Deuterium isotope labeling and product analysis pointed out several competitive and convergent dissociation pathways that were not completely resolved by experiment. Ab initio calculations, which were extrapolated up to the CCSD(T)/6-311++G(3df,2p) level of theory, provided the proton affinity and gas-phase basicity of BANMA as PA = 971 kJ mol-1 and GB = 932 kJ mol-1 to form the most stable ion structure 1c+ in which the protonated ammonium group was internally solvated by hydrogen bonding to the amide carbonyl. Ion 1c+ was calculated to have an adiabatic recombination energy of 3.33 eV to form ammonium radical 1c*. The potential energy surface for competitive and consecutive isomerizations and dissociations of 1c* was investigated at correlated levels of theory and used for Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) calculations. RRKM unimolecular rate constants suggested that dissociations starting from the ground electronic state of radical 1c* were dominated by loss of an ammonium hydrogen atom. In contrast, dissociations starting from the B excited state were predicted to proceed by reversible isomerization to an aminoketyl radical (1f*). The latter can in part dissociate by N-Calpha bond cleavage leading to the loss of the amide methyl group. This indicates that apparently competitive dissociations observed for larger amide and peptide radicals, such as backbone cleavages and losses of side-chain groups, may originate from different electronic states and proceed on different potential energy surfaces.
17456183	Halisulfate 1, a sesterterpene sulfate and an isocitrate lyase (ICL) inhibitor that is isolated from tropical sponge Hippospongia spp., reduces both appressorium formation and infection of rice plants by the fungus Magnaporthe grisea. Rice plants infected with wild-type M. grisea Guy 11 exhibited significantly lower disease severity after halisulfate 1 treatment than without, and the treatment effect was comparable to the behavior of the Delta icl knockout mutant I-10. The protection observed upon applying halisulfate 1 to rice plants suggests that the ICL inhibitor may be a promising candidate for crop protection, particularly to protect rice plants against M. grisea.
17456599	There have been few insights into the biochemical origins of natural product biosynthesis from primary metabolism. Of particular interest are terpene synthases, which often mediate the committed step in particular biosynthetic pathways so that alteration of their product outcome is a key step in the derivation of novel natural products. These enzymes also catalyze complex reactions of significant mechanistic interest. Following an evolutionary lead from two recently diverged, functionally distinct diterpene synthase orthologs from different subspecies of rice, we have identified a single residue that can switch product outcome. Specifically, the mutation of a conserved isoleucine to threonine that acts to convert not only the originally targeted isokaurene synthase into a specific pimaradiene synthase but also has a much broader effect, which includes conversion of the ent-kaurene synthases found in all higher plants for gibberellin phytohormone biosynthesis to the production of pimaradiene. This surprisingly facile switch for diterpene synthase catalytic specificity indicates the ease with which primary (gibberellin) metabolism can be subverted to secondary biosynthesis and may underlie the widespread occurrence of pimaradiene-derived natural products. In addition, because this isoleucine is required for the mechanistically more complex cyclization to tetracyclic kaurene, whereas substitution with threonine "short-circuits" this mechanism to produce the "simpler" tricyclic pimaradiene, our results have some implications regarding the means by which terpene synthases specify product outcome.
1745684	Rats are capable of tasting or detecting maltooligosaccharides (e.g., Polycose) and starch in water, two substances that are bland to humans. Because both substances are glucose polymers, it has been suggested that they may be detected by the same mechanism. The present experiments examined whether rats conditioned to avoid one of these substances also avoid the other. Rats were injected with lithium chloride after being allowed to drink a 3% corn starch suspension. These rats subsequently avoided corn, potato, rice, and waxy maize (high-amylopectin) starch but did not avoid 0.1-3% Polycose Rats treated with lithium chloride after ingesting 3% Polycose avoided 3% and 0.5% Polycose, but they did not avoid 3% corn starch, 6% corn starch, or 3% waxy maize starch. These results indicate that rats can discriminate between starch and Polycose (maltooligosaccharides). It therefore seems likely that Polycose and starch have different sensory qualities.
17457164	To evaluate prognostic factors and tumor staging in patients after esophagectomy for cancer. Several reports have questioned the appropriateness of the sixth edition of the International Union Against Cancer (UICC) TNM guidelines for staging esophageal cancer. Additional pathologic characteristics, besides the 3 basic facets of anatomic spread (tumor, node, metastases), might also have prognostic value. All patients who underwent resection of the esophagus for carcinoma between January 1995 and March 2003 were extracted from a prospective database. Univariate and multivariate analysis was performed to identify prognostic factors for survival. The goodness of fit and accuracy of 3 staging models (UICC-TNM, Korst classification, Rice classification) predicting survival were assessed. A total of 292 patients (mean age, 63 years) underwent esophagectomy. The 5-year overall survival rate was 29% (median, 21 months). pT-, pN-, pm-stage, and radicality of the resection were independent prognostic factors. Subdivision of T1 tumors into mucosal and submucosal showed significant differences in 5-year survival between both groups: 90% versus 47%, respectively (P = 0.01). Subdivision of pN-stage into 3 groups based on the number of positive nodes (0, 1-2, and >3 nodes positive) or the lymph node ratio (0, 0.01-0.2, and >0.2) also refined staging (P = 0.001 and P < 0.001, respectively). The current subclassification of M1 (M1a and M1b) is not warranted (P = 0.41). The staging model of Rice was more accurate than the UICC-TNM classification in predicting survival. This study supports the view that the current (6th edition) UICC-TNM staging model for esophageal cancer needs to be revised.
17458147	To study the oxidative stress induced by consumption of mercury-contaminated rice in rats, and to assess the possible public health risk of mercury contamination in Wanshan mining area. Sprague Dawley rats were fed the mercury-contaminated rice produced from Wanshan area for 90 days. The antioxidant status and the free radicals in rat serum were evaluated. High mercury accumulation in organs of rats fed the mercury-contaminated rice confirmed the server pollution of mercury in Wanshan mining area. The intensity of electron spin resonance (ESR) signal increased by 87.38% in rats fed the rice from Wanshan compared with that in the control rats fed the rice from Shanghai, suggesting that chronic dietary consumption of rice from mercury mining area could induce an aggravation of free radicals. Feeding the mercury-contaminated rice was associated with significant decreases in the antioxidant enzymatic activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and concentration of serum nitric oxide (NO), but it had no effect on serum nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity. Feeding the mercury-contaminated rice raised the level of serum malonyldialdehyde (MDA), indicating the occurrence of oxidative stress. The long-term dietary consumption of mercury-contaminated rice induces the aggravation of free radicals and exerts oxidative stress.
17458464	Measurements of the concentrations of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) were made in ambient air, ash, and soil impacted by the open burning of wax apple and rice straw residues. Measurements showed that the mean PCDD/F concentration (0.458 pg I-TEQ/Nm3; international toxicity equivalence) in air at two wax apple orchards during open burning increased markedly, -8.1 times higher than that (0.057 pg I-TEQ/Nm3); before open burning. In addition, the mean PCDD/F concentration (0.409 pg I-TEQ/Nm3) in ambient air at a rice straw field was 4.6 times higher than that (0.089 pg I-TEQ/Nm3) before open burning. After burning the residues of wax apple stubble and rice straw, the contents of PCDD/F in ashes were 1.393 and 1.568 ng I-TEQ/kg-ash, respectively, and the contents of PCDD/F in soil were 2.258 and 2.890 ng I-TEQ/kg-soil, respectively. Therefore, the turnover of soil with the ash after open burning over years will result in the accumulation of PCDD/Fs in farm soils.
17459330	The effects of photosystem II antenna size on reaction center-type energy-dependent quenching (qE) were examined in rice plants grown under two different light intensities using both wild type and qE-less (OsPsbS knockout) mutant plants. Reaction center-type qE was detected by measuring non-photochemical quenching at 50 micromol photons m(-2) s(-1) white light intensity. We observed that in low light-grown rice plants, reaction center-type qE was higher than in high light-grown plants, and the amount of reaction center-type qE did not depend on zeaxanthin accumulation. This was confirmed in Arabidopsis npq1-2 mutant plants that lack zeaxanthin due to a mutation in the violaxanthin de-epoxidase enzyme. Although the electron transport rate measured at a light intensity of 50 micromol photons m(-2) s(-1) was the same in high light- and low light-grown wild type and mutant plants lacking PsbS protein, the generation of energy-dependent quenching was completely impaired only in mutant plants. Analyses of the pigment content, Lhcb proteins and D1 protein of PSII showed that the antenna size was larger in low light-grown plants, and this correlated with the amount of reaction center-type qE. Our results mark the first time that the reaction center-type qE has been shown to depend on photosystem II antenna size and, although it depends on the existence of PsbS protein, the extent of reaction center-type qE does not correlate with the transcript levels of PsbS protein. The presence of reaction center-type energy-dependent quenching, in addition to antenna-type quenching, in higher plants for dissipation of excess light energy demonstrates the complexity and flexibility of the photosynthetic apparatus of higher plants to respond to different environmental conditions.
1745937	Prevalences of non-infective bowel diseases are very low in South African urban blacks compared with the white population. In seeking elucidation, using breath hydrogen measurements in series of black and white subjects, small-bowel transit time was determined, and the malabsorption of maize, wheat, and rice investigated. Median transit times in both ethnic groups were similar. Rice was fully, but wheat incompletely absorbed by both groups. Maize, the staple food of blacks, was incompletely absorbed by them, although completely absorbed by the white subjects. Carbohydrate consumption is high in the black population (60-65% of total energy intake). It is probable that in blacks, despite their now eating a low-fibre diet, an expected increase in large-bowel diseases has been inhibited in part by the protective mechanism of fermentation of malabsorbed maize and wheat.
1745938	Diabetes mellitus is uncommon in rural southern African blacks. With urbanisation and lifestyle changes, incidence rises to that in western populations. To assess associated changes in carbohydrate metabolism, glycaemic responses to glucose, refined maize, refined rice and bread were studied in 8 healthy and 8 non-insulin-dependent diabetic urban blacks. Additionally, in the healthy group serum insulin responses were measured. In the healthy, maize (the staple food of blacks) elicited the highest glucose response (207 mmol/l/min) and bread the lowest (107 mmol/l/min). The glycaemic indices of maize and glucose were similar. Serum insulin responses to maize were significantly lower than that of bread at 90 minutes (maize 66 muU/ml; bread 93 muU/ml; P = 0.02). In diabetics, maize and glucose elicited similar glycaemia (928 mmol/l/min and 921 mmol/l/min respectively). The high glucose response to maize could relate to its processing and physical form. The low insulin secretion could be due to inadequate stimulation by the 'entero-insular' axis. Moreover, variability in glucose insulin responses could stem from ethnic or genetic reasons. In the dietary management of black diabetics, refined maize should be replaced by other cereals.
17459962	Understanding how interactions among set of genes affect diverse phenotypes is having a greater impact on biomedical research, agriculture and evolutionary biology. Mapping and characterizing the isolated effects of single quantitative trait locus (QTL) is a first step, but we also need to assemble networks of QTLs and define non-additive interactions (epistasis) together with a host of potential environmental modulators. In this article, we present a full-QTL model with which to explore the genetic architecture of complex trait in multiple environments. Our model includes the effects of multiple QTLs, epistasis, QTL-by-environment interactions and epistasis-by-environment interactions. A new mapping strategy, including marker interval selection, detection of marker interval interactions and genome scans, is used to evaluate putative locations of multiple QTLs and their interactions. All the mapping procedures are performed in the framework of mixed linear model that are flexible to model environmental factors regardless of fix or random effects being assumed. An F-statistic based on Henderson method III is used for hypothesis tests. This method is less computationally greedy than corresponding likelihood ratio test. In each of the mapping procedures, permutation testing is exploited to control for genome-wide false positive rate, and model selection is used to reduce ghost peaks in F-statistic profile. Parameters of the full-QTL model are estimated using a Bayesian method via Gibbs sampling. Monte Carlo simulations help define the reliability and efficiency of the method. Two real-world phenotypes (BXD mouse olfactory bulb weight data and rice yield data) are used as exemplars to demonstrate our methods. A software package is freely available at http://ibi.zju.edu.cn/software/qtlnetwork
17460040
17460688
17461061	The distribution of imidacloprid residue in different parts of rice, Oryza sativa L. (Graminales: Poaceae), plants was investigated for three rice varieties. Changes in larval hormones in Chilo suppressalis (Walker) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) that fed on imidacloprid-treated plant sources and the fecundity of resultant adult females (moths) also were determined. No significant differences in imidacloprid residue were detected in rice stem, leaves, and the unexpanded new leaf 7 d after treatment except in the rice variety Fengyouxiangzhan, in which residue content in leaves and the unexpanded new leaf was significantly lower than that in the stem. The percentage of reduction of imidacloprid residue after treatment varied with rice variety and plant parts. The greatest reduction in the three plant parts was shown in Wujing 15 compared with the other two varieties. The decomposition rate of imidacloprid residue in Wujing 15 was greater in leaves and unexpanded new leaf than in the stem, whereas in Wuyunjing 7 it was lower in leaves than in the unexpanded new leaf and stem. In Fengyouxiangzhan, the decomposition rate of imidacloprid in the stem increased 14 d after treatment. Juvenile hormone III and molting hormone titers in fourth instar larvae that had fed on rice plants treated with imidacloprid since the neonate stage were significantly higher than those in larvae fed on untreated plants (control). Juvenile hormone titer in larvae that had fed on Zizamia lalifolia Turcz galls treated with imidacloprid and the fecundity of the female moths that developed from such larvae were also significantly higher than that on the control counterparts. These results are discussed in relation to the impact of imidacloprid on nontarget insects and pest management.
17462923	Insertional mutagenesis is an effective way to study the infection mechanism of fungal pathogens. In an attempt to identify the genes involved in appressorium formation from Magnaporthe grisea, we carried out Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation (ATMT) of the fungus. Analysis of the region flanking the T-DNA integration site in one of the appressorium mutants showed insertion in a gene coding a 78 amino acid protein (MGA1), showing no significant homology to any of the known proteins. The mutant mga1 caused neither foliar nor root infection. Complementation of the mutated gene with the full length wild type gene restored appressorium formation as well as rice infection demonstrating the involvement of this gene in pathogenicity of M. grisea. In an indirect immunolocalisation assay, the MGA1 expression was seen predominantly in germ tube and appressoria. The mutant was impaired in glycogen and lipid mobilization required for appressorium formation. The glycerol content in the mycelia of the mutant under hyperosmotic stress conditions was less as compared to wild type and was thus unable to tolerate the hyperosmotic stress induced by sorbitol. We hypothesize that MGA1 plays a crucial role in signal transduction leading to the metabolism of glycogen and lipids, which is a part of appressorium differentiation process.
17464192	We identified two alternatively spliced variants of the peroxisomal targeting signal 1 (PTS1) receptor protein Pex5ps in monocot (rice, wheat, and barley) but not in dicot (Arabidopsis and tobacco) plants. We characterized the molecular and functional differences between the rice (Oryza sativa) Pex5 splicing variants OsPex5pL and OsPex5pS. There is only a single-copy of OsPEX5 in the rice genome and RT-PCR analysis points to alternative splicing of the transcripts. Putative light-responsive cis-elements were identified in the 5' region flanking OsPEX5L and Northern blot analysis demonstrated that this region affected light-dependent expression of OsPEX5 transcription. Using the pex5-deficient yeast mutant Scpex5, we showed that OsPex5pL and OsPex5pS are able to restore translocation of a model PTS1 protein (GFP-SKL) into peroxisomes. OsPex5pL and OsPex5pS formed homo-complexes via specific interaction domains, and interacted with each other and OsPex14p to form hetero-complexes. Although overexpression of OsPex5pL in the Arabidopsis pex5 mutant (Atpex5) rescued the mutant phenotype, overexpression of OsPex5pS only resulted in partial recovery.
17464198	Plant beta-1, 3-glucanases are involved in plant defense and in development. Very little data are available on the expression of rice glucanases both in developmental tissues and under various stresses. In this study, we cloned and characterized twenty-seven rice beta-1, 3-glucanases (OsGlu) from at total of 71 putative glucanases. The OsGlu genes were obtained by PCR from a cDNA library and were classified into seven groups (Group I to VII) according to their DNA or amino acid sequence homology. Analysis of the expression of the twenty-seven OsGlu genes by Northern blotting revealed that they were differentially expressed in different developmental tissues as well as in response to plant hormones, biotic stress, high salt etc. OsGlu11 and 27 in Group IV were clearly expressed only in stem and leaf and were also induced strongly by SA (5 mM), ABA (200 microM), and M. grisea. OsGlu1, 10, 11, and 14 were induced earlier and to higher levels in incompatible M. grisea interaction than in compatible one. Taken together, our findings suggest that the twenty-seven rice OsGlu gene products play diverse roles not only in plant defense but also in hormonal responses and in development.
17464214	Demand for low-input sustainable crop cultivation is increasing to meet the need for environment-friendly agriculture. Consequently, developing genotypes with high nutrient use efficiency is one of the major objectives of crop breeding programs. This study was conducted to identify QTLs for traits associated with physiological nitrogen use efficiency (PNUE). A recombinant inbred population (DT-RILs) between Dasanbyeo (a tongil type rice, derived from an indica x japonica cross and similar to indica in its genetic make-up) and TR22183 (a Chinese japonica variety) consisting of 166 F8 lines was developed and used for mapping. A frame map of 1,409 cM containing 113 SSR and 103 STS markers with an average interval of 6.5 cM between adjacent marker loci was constructed using the DT-RILs. The RILs were cultivated in ordinary-N (N-P2O5-K2O = 100-80-80 kg/ha) and low-N (N-P2O5-K2O= 50-80-80 kg/ha) (100 kg/ha) conditions. PNUE was positively correlated with the harvest index and grain yield in both conditions. Twenty single QTLs (S-QTLs) and 58 pairs of epistatic loci (E-QTLs) were identified for the nitrogen concentration of grain, nitrogen concentration of straw, nitrogen content of shoot, harvest index, grain yield, straw yield and PNUE in both conditions. The phenotypic variance explained by these S-QTLs and E-QTLs ranged from 11.1 to 44.3% and from 16.0% to 63.6% , respectively. The total phenotypic variance explained by all the QTLs for each trait ranged from 35.8% to 71.3%, showing that the expression of PNUE and related characters depends significantly upon genetic factors. Both S-QTLs and E-QTLs may be useful for marker-assisted selection (MAS) to develop higher PNUE genotypes.
17464219	The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascade is critical for regulating plant defense systems against various kinds of pathogen and environmental stresses. One component of this cascade, the MAP kinase kinases (MAPKK), has not yet been shown to be induced in plants following biotic attacks, such as those by insects and fungi. We describe here a gene coding for a blast (Magnaporthe grisea)- and insect (Nilaparvata lugens)-responsive putative MAPK kinase, OmMKK1 (Oryza minuta MAPKK 1), which was identified in a library of O. minuta expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Two copies of OmMKK1 are present in the O. minuta genome. They encode a predicted protein with molecular mass 39 kDa and pI of 6.2. Transcript patterns following imbibition of plant hormones such as methyl jasmonic acid (MeJA), ethephone, salicylic acid (SA) and abscisic acid (ABA), as well as exposure to methyl viologen (MV), revealed that the expression of OmMKK1 is related to defense response signaling pathways. A comparative analysis of OmMKK1 and its O. sativa ortholog OsMKK1 showed that both were induced by stress-related hormones and biotic stresses, but that the kinetics of their responses differed despite their high amino acid sequence identity (96%).
17465932	Compact genes contain short and few introns, and they are highly expressed in different animal genomes. Recently, it has been shown that in Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana, highly expressed genes tend to be least compact, containing long and many introns. It has been suggested that selection on genome organization may have acted differently in plants compared with animals. Gene expression can be estimated as the number of hits when comparing a gene sequence with publicly available expressed sequence tags. Here it is shown that in the haploid moss Physcomitrella pates, highly expressed genes contain shorter introns than genes with low expression levels. This study therefore supports the hypothesis that selection may strongly favour transcriptional efficiency at least in the haploid phase of plant life cycles. It is concluded that plants do not necessarily respond to other selection pressures than animals regarding genome structuring.
17466346	Catalysing the hydrolysis of terminal beta-galactosyl residues from carbohydrates, galactolipids, and glycoproteins, glycoside hydrolase family 35 (beta-galactosidases; BGALs) are widely distributed in plants and believed to play many key roles, including modification of cell wall components. Completion of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome sequencing project has, for the first time, allowed an examination of the total number, gene structure, and evolutionary patterns of all Family 35 members in a representative (model) angiosperm. Reiterative database searches established a multigene family of 17 members (designated BGAL1-BGAL17). Using these genes as query sequences, BLAST and Hidden Markov Model searches identified BGAL genes among 22 other eukaryotes, whose genomic sequences are known. The Arabidopsis (n=17) and rice (n=15) BGAL families were much larger than those of Chlamydomonas, fungi, and animals (n=0-4), and a lineage-specific expansion of BGAL genes apparently occurred after divergence of the Arabidopsis and rice lineages. All plant BGAL genes, with the exception of Arabidopsis BGAL17 and rice Os 9633.m04334, form a monophyletic group. Arabidopsis BGAL expression levels are much higher in mature leaves, roots, flowers, and siliques but are lower in young seedlings. BGAL8, BGAL11, BGAL13, BGAL14, and BGAL16 are expressed only in flowers. Catalytically active BGAL4 was produced in the E. coli and baculoviral expression systems, purified to electrophoretic homogeneity, and partially characterized. The purified enzyme hydrolyzed p- and o-nitrophenyl-beta-d-galactosides. It also cleaved beta-(1,3)-, beta-(1,4)-, and beta-(1,6)-linked galactobiosides and galactotriosides, showing a marked preference for beta-(1,3)- and beta-(1,4)-linkages.
17467964	Unlike most bacteria, the nitrogen-fixing rice-associated Pseudomonas stutzeri A15 disposes of three different nitrate reductases that enable conversion of nitrate to nitrite through three physiologically distinct processes, called nitrate assimilation, nitrate respiration and nitrate dissimilation. To study the role of nitrate respiration in rhizosphere fitness, a Pseudomonas stutzeri narG mutant was constructed and characterized by assessing its growth characteristics and whole-cell nitrate reductase activity in different oxygen tensions. Unexpectedly, the Pseudomonas stutzeri A15 narG mutant appeared to be a better root colonizer, outcompeting the wild type strain in a wheat and rice hydroponic system.
17468002	Rice is an important food crop, but it is a poor source of essential micronutrients such as iron and zinc. In order to improve the metal ion content of rice grains through breeding or biotechnology, more information is needed on the molecular players that help mobilize metals from leaves to developing seeds. To profile several genes simultaneously, a cDNA macroarray was developed using 36 metal-related genes from rice, including ZIPs, NRAMPs, and YSLs (coding for known or potential metal transporters), as well as NAS, FER, FRO, NAAT, FDH, GSTU, and PDR (involved in metal homeostasis). Because flag leaves are the major source of phloem-delivered photoassimilates and remobilized metals for developing seeds, we analyzed the expression of these metal-related genes in flag and non-flag leaves of four different rice cultivars (Cocodrie, Taipei 309, IR58, and IR68144) during the period of mid-grain fill. Genes (24 of 36) exhibited low to non-detectable signals in the macroarray, while 12 genes (OsIRT1, OsZIP1, OsZIP5, OsZIP8, OsYSL5, OsYSL6, OsYSL7, OsYSL8, OsYSL18, OsNRAMP2, OsNRAMP4 and OsNRAMP7) were found to be highly expressed in both flag and non-flag leaves of all four cultivars. Additional expression analysis using semi-quantitative or quantitative PCR provided results that were generally consistent with the macroarray, but semi-quantitative PCR confirmed that OsFDH, OsFER1, OsNAAT, OsNAS1, OsPDR9, OsYSL12, OsYSL13, OsZIP7, and OsZIP10 were also expressed in leaves. This specialized macroarray has provided a short list of potential candidate genes, expressed in leaves, which might contribute to the process of metal transport to distant sinks, such as seeds.
17468126	Stable oil bodies were purified from mature lily (Lilium longiflorum Thunb.) pollen. The integrity of pollen oil bodies was maintained via electronegative repulsion and steric hindrance possibly provided by their surface proteins. Immunodetection revealed that a major protein of 18 kDa was exclusively present in pollen oil bodies and massively accumulated in late stages of pollen maturation. According to mass spectrometric analyses, this oil body protein possessed a tryptic fragment of 13 residues matching that of a theoretical rice oleosin. A complete cDNA fragment encoding this putative oleosin was obtained by PCR cloning with primers derived from its known 13-residue sequence. Sequence analysis as well as immunological non-cross-reactivity suggests that this pollen oleosin represents a distinct class in comparison with oleosins found in seed oil bodies and tapetum. In pollen cells observed by electron microscopy, oil bodies were presumably surrounded by tubular membrane structures, and encapsulated in the vacuoles after germination. It seems that pollen oil bodies are mobilized via a different route from that of glyoxysomal mobilization of seed oil bodies after germination.
17468215	The SILENT INFORMATION REGULATOR2 (SIR2) family proteins are NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylases. Sir2 is involved in chromatin silencing at the mating-type loci, rDNA, and telomeres in yeast and is associated with lifespan extension in yeast, worms, and flies, but also in a broader range of additional functions. In this work, we investigated the role of OsSRT1, one of the two SIR2-related genes found in rice (Oryza sativa). We show that OsSRT1 is a widely expressed nuclear protein with higher levels in rapidly dividing tissues. OsSRT1 RNA interference induced an increase of histone H3K9 (lysine-9 of H3) acetylation and a decrease of H3K9 dimethylation, leading to H(2)O(2) production, DNA fragmentation, cell death, and lesions mimicking plant hypersensitive responses during incompatible interactions with pathogens, whereas overexpression of OsSRT1 enhanced tolerance to oxidative stress. Transcript microarray analysis revealed that the transcription of many transposons and retrotransposons in addition to genes related to hypersensitive response and/or programmed cell death was activated. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed that OsSRT1 down-regulation induced histone H3K9 acetylation on the transposable elements and some of the hypersensitive response-related genes, suggesting that these genes may be among the primary targets of deacetylation regulated by OsSRT1. Our data together suggest that the rice SIR2-like gene is required for safeguard against genome instability and cell damage to ensure plant cell growth, but likely implicates different molecular mechanisms than yeast and animal homologs.
17468221	In all plant species studied to date, sucrose synthase occurs as multiple isoforms. The specific functions of the different isoforms are for the most part not clear. Six isoforms of sucrose synthase have been identified in the model legume Lotus japonicus, the same number as in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa). The genes encoding these isoforms are differentially expressed in all plant organs examined, although one, LjSUS4, is only expressed in flowers. LjSUS1 is the most highly expressed in all plant organs tested, except root nodules, where LjSUS3 accounts for more than 60% of the total SUS transcripts. One gene, LjSUS2, produces two transcripts due to alternative splicing, a feature not observed in other species to date. We have isolated plants carrying ethyl methanesulfonate-induced mutations in several SUS genes by targeting-induced local lesions in genomes reverse genetics and examined the effect of null alleles of two genes, LjSUS1 and LjSUS3, on nodule function. No differences were observed between the mutants and wild-type plants under glasshouse conditions, but there was evidence for a nitrogen-starvation phenotype in the sus3-1 mutant and severe impairment of growth in the sus1-1/sus3-1 double mutant under specific environmental conditions. Nodules of sus3-1 mutant plants retained a capacity for nitrogen fixation under all conditions. Thus, nitrogen fixation can occur in L. japonicus nodules even in the absence of LjSUS3 (the major nodule-induced isoform of SUS), so LjSUS1 must also contribute to the maintenance of nitrogen assimilation.
17468223	Genes controlling the transition to flowering have been studied in several species, including Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), but have not yet received much attention in legumes. Here, we describe a new allelic series of late-flowering, photoperiod-insensitive mutants in the pea (Pisum sativum) LATE BLOOMER1 (LATE1) gene and show that LATE1 is an ortholog of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA. Mutants display defects in phytochrome B-dependent deetiolation under red light and in the diurnal regulation of pea homologs of several Arabidopsis circadian clock genes, including TIMING OF CAB1, EARLY FLOWERING4, and CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED1/LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL. LATE1 itself shows strongly rhythmic expression with a small but distinct acute peak following dark-to-light transfer. Mutations in LATE1 prevent the induction of a FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) homolog FTL in long days but cause only minor alteration to the rhythmic expression pattern of the only known group Ia CONSTANS homolog COLa. The late-flowering phenotype of late1 mutants can be completely rescued by grafting to the wild type, but this rescue is not associated with a significant increase in FTL transcript level in shoot apices. Genetic interactions of late1 with the photoperiod-insensitive, early-flowering sterile nodes (sn) mutant and impairment of the LATE1 diurnal expression rhythm in sn plants suggest that SN may also affect the circadian clock. These results show that several functions of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA are conserved in its pea ortholog and demonstrate that genetic pathways for photoperiodic flowering are likely to be conserved between these two species. They also suggest that in addition to its role in the floral transition, LATE1 also acts throughout reproductive development.
17468779	Tiller angle of rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important agronomic trait that contributes to grain production, and has long attracted attentions of breeders for achieving ideal plant architecture to improve grain yield. Although enormous efforts have been made over the past decades to study mutants with extremely spreading or compact tillers, the molecular mechanism underlying the control of tiller angle of cereal crops remains unknown. Here we report the cloning of the LAZY1 (LA1) gene that regulates shoot gravitropism by which the rice tiller angle is controlled. We show that LA1, a novel grass-specific gene, is temporally and spatially expressed, and plays a negative role in polar auxin transport (PAT). Loss-of-function of LA1 enhances PAT greatly and thus alters the endogenous IAA distribution in shoots, leading to the reduced gravitropism, and therefore the tiller-spreading phenotype of rice plants.
17469777	USSR5, a japonica rice variety from the former Soviet Union, is an extremely early maturing rice variety. To elucidate the genetic basis for its early heading, genetic analysis was carried out by crossing it with a set of major gene nearly isogenic lines (NIL) and QTL-isogenic lines. The early heading of USSR5 was attributed to the presence of photoperiod-insensitive alleles at E(1) and Se-1 gene, the photoperiod-sensitive inhibitor gene i-Se-1, and the dominant earliness gene Ef-1. Analysis of a backcrossed population (BC(1)F(1)) derived from the cross USSR5 x N22 indicated that two quantitative trait loci (QTL) for early heading were located on chromosomes 7 and 8, accounting for 27.4% and 11.2% of the phenotypic variance, respectively, with both early alleles originating from USSR5. From an F(2) population of the same cross, early heading QTLs were detected on chromosomes 1, 2, 7, 9, and 10, with individual QTL accounting for between 4.1% and 15.4% of the phenotypic variance. Early heading alleles at four of these five QTLs originated from USSR5. A comparison of chromosomal locations suggests that one of these QTLs may be identical with the known gene Hd4 (E(1)). The relationship between the other QTLs and known genes for heading date are not clear. USSR5 is a promising source for propagating earliness for the development of improved early heading rice varieties.
17469785	A factorial mating design in two environments was conducted using 7 cytoplasmic male sterile lines (A) and 5 restorer lines (R) along with their F(1) (A x R) and F(2) populations. The unconditional and conditional analyses of genetic models and the corresponding statistic methods, including endospermic, cytoplasmic, and maternal plant genetic systems, were used to analyze the genetic relationships between protein content (PC) and the appearance quality traits of indica rice (Oryza sativa L.). The results from unconditional analysis indicated that PC was significantly correlated with the appearance quality traits of rice, except for the brown rice thickness (BRT). Only the genetic covariance between PC and the brown rice width (BRW) was positively correlative, whereas all the other pairwise traits were negatively correlative. The results from conditional analysis revealed that the weight of brown rice (WBR) or the amylose content (AC) could significantly affect the relationships between PC and the appearance quality traits of indica rice. The conditional analysis showed that WBR might negatively affect the relationships between PC and the brown rice length (BRL), BRW, or BRT through the genotype x environmental (GE) interaction effects, but positively affected the relationships between PC and the ratio of brown rice length to width (RLW) or the ratio of brown rice length to thickness (RLT). The amylase content could positively affect the relationships between PC and BRL, RLW, RLT through the cytoplasmic effects and maternal additive effects, but negatively affected the relationships between PC and BRW.
17469786	Chitinases (EC3.2.1.14), found in a wide range of organisms, catalyze the hydrolysis of chitin and play a major role in defense mechanisms against fungal pathogens. The alignment and typical domains were analyzed using basic local alignment search tool (BLAST) and simple modular architecture research tool (SMART), respectively. On the basis of the annotations of rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Arabidopsis genomic sequences and using the bio-software SignalP3.0, TMHMM2.0, TargetP1.1, and big-Pi Predictor, 25 out of 37 and 16 out of 24 open reading frames (ORFs) with chitinase activity from rice and Arabidopsis, respectively, were predicted to have signal peptides (SPs), which have an average of 24.8 amino acids at the N-terminal region. Some of the chitinases were secreted extracellularly, whereas some were located in the vacuole. The phylogenic relationship was analyzed with 61 ORFs and 25 known chitinases and they were classified into 6 clusters using Clustal X and MEGA3.1. This classification is not completely consistent when compared with the traditional system that classifies the chitinases into 7 classes. The frequency of distribution of amino acid residues was distinct in different clusters. The contents of alanine, glycine, serine, and leucine were very high in each cluster, whereas the contents of methionine, histidine, tryptophan, and cysteine were lower than 20%. Each cluster had distinct amino acid characteristics. Alanine, valine, leucine, cysteine, serine, and lysine were rich in Clusters I to VI, respectively.
17470057	Gene duplication plays important roles in organismal evolution, because duplicate genes provide raw materials for the evolution of mechanisms controlling physiological and/or morphological novelties. Gene duplication can occur via several mechanisms, including segmental duplication, tandem duplication and retroposition. Although segmental and tandem duplications have been found to be important for the expansion of a number of multigene families, the contribution of retroposition is not clear. Here we show that plant SKP1 genes have evolved by multiple duplication events from a single ancestral copy in the most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of eudicots and monocots, resulting in 19 ASK (Arabidopsis SKP1-like) and 28 OSK (Oryza SKP1-like) genes. The estimated birth rates are more than ten times the average rate of gene duplication, and are even higher than that of other rapidly duplicating plant genes, such as type I MADS box genes, R genes, and genes encoding receptor-like kinases. Further analyses suggest that a relatively large proportion of the duplication events may be explained by tandem duplication, but few, if any, are likely to be due to segmental duplication. In addition, by mapping the gain/loss of a specific intron on gene phylogenies, and by searching for the features that characterize retrogenes/retrosequences, we show that retroposition is an important mechanism for expansion of the plant SKP1 gene family. Specifically, we propose that two and three ancient retroposition events occurred in lineages leading to Arabidopsis and rice, respectively, followed by repeated tandem duplications and chromosome rearrangements. Our study represents a thorough investigation showing that retroposition can play an important role in the evolution of a plant gene family whose members do not encode mobile elements.
17470058	A novel abscisic acid (ABA)-deficient mutant, aba4, was identified in a screen for paclobutrazol-resistant germination. Compared with wild-type, the mutant showed reduced endogenous ABA levels in both dehydrated rosettes and seeds. Carotenoid composition analysis demonstrated that the defective locus affects neoxanthin synthesis. The ABA4 gene was identified by map-based cloning, and found to be a unique gene in the Arabidopsis genome. The predicted protein has four putative helical transmembrane domains and shows significant similarity to predicted proteins from tomato, rice and cyanobacteria. Constitutive expression of the ABA4 gene in Arabidopsis transgenic plants led to increased accumulation of trans-neoxanthin, indicating that the ABA4 protein has a direct role in neoxanthin synthesis. aba4 mutant phenotypes were mild compared with previously identified ABA-deficient mutants that exhibit vegetative tissue phenotypes. Indeed, ABA levels in seeds of aba4 mutants were higher than those of aba1 mutants. As aba1 mutants are also affected in a unique gene, this suggests that ABA can be produced in the aba4 mutant by an alternative pathway using violaxanthin as a substrate. It appears, therefore, that in Arabidopsis both violaxanthin and neoxanthin are in vivo substrates for 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenases. Furthermore, significantly reduced levels of ABA were synthesized in the aba4 mutant on dehydration, demonstrating that ABA biosynthesis in response to stress must occur mainly via neoxanthin isomer precursors.
17470145	Jasmonic acid (JA) is a well-known defence hormone, but its biological function and mechanism in rice root development are less understood. Here, we describe a JA-induced putative receptor-like protein (OsRLK, AAL87185) functioning in root development in rice. RNA in situ hybridization revealed that the gene was expressed largely in roots, and a fusion protein showed its localization on the plasma membrane. The primary roots in RNAi transgenic rice plants meandered and curled more easily than wild-type (WT) roots under JA treatment. Thus, this gene was renamed Oryza sativa root meander curling (OsRMC). The transgenic primary roots were shorter, the number of adventitious roots increased and the number of lateral roots decreased as compared to the WT. As well, the second sheath was reduced in length. Growth of both primary roots and second sheaths was sensitive to JA treatment. No significant change of JA level appeared in the roots between the transgenic rice line and WT. Expression of RSOsPR10, involved in the JA signalling pathway, was induced in transgenic rice. Western blotting revealed OsRMC induced by JA. Our results suggest that OsRMC of the DUF26 subfamily involved in JA signal transduction mediates root development and negatively regulates root curling in rice.
1747094	Normal (nonglutinous) rice plants (Oryza sativa and O. glaberrima) contain more than 18% amylose in endosperm starch, while waxy (glutinous) plants lack it in this starch. In contrast, leaf starch contained more than 3.6% amylose even in waxy plants. SDS-PAGE analysis of proteins bound to endosperm starch granules in the normal plants revealed a single band with a Mr of 60 kd, whereas waxy plants did not exhibit a similar band. The activity of starch synthase (NDP-glucose-starch glucosyltransferase) was completely inhibited by antibody against the 60-kd protein. Thus, we conclude that the 60-kd protein is the waxy protein encoded by the Wx allele, which also plays a role in the synthesis of nonglutinous starch in endosperm tissue. In leaf blades, the proteins bound to starch granules separated into five bands with Mr's of 53.6 to 64.9 kd on SDS-PAGE. Analysis of these proteins by immunoblotting using antiserum against Wx protein and inhibition of starch synthase activity by the synthase antibody revealed that none of these proteins was homologous to Wx protein. We suggest that the synthesis of amylose in leaf blades is brought about by a protein encoded by a gene(s) different from the Wx gene expressed in the endosperm.
17472463	The objective of this study was to investigate the activation of natural killer (NK) cells and anticancer effects of exo-biopolymer from rice bran cultured with Lentinus edodes [rice bran exo-biopolymer (RBEP)]. Oral administration of RBEP induced the activation of NK cells in a dose-dependent manner. RBEP also prolonged the life spans of mice transplanted with Sarcoma-180 cells and inhibited growing Sarcoma-180 cells in intraperitoneum. Solid tumor growth was also suppressed by oral administration of RBEP in C57/Bl6 mice transplanted with B16/Bl6 melanoma. Intraperitoneal injection of RBEP was more effective than oral administration at the same dosage in mice with transplanted tumor cells. According to this result, when RBEP directly contacts immune cells, the anticancer activity is higher than by indirectly inducing an immune response through oral administration. Therefore, we suggest that the administration of RBEP may be effective for preventing and/or treating cancer through NK cell activation. However, further studies are needed to elucidate the possible mechanisms of the anticancer activity and to investigate the other beneficial effects of RBEP for the development of a new biological response modifier.
17472566	Gibberellins (GAs) are a large family of tetracyclic, diterpenoid plant hormones that induce a wide range of plant growth responses. It has been postulated that plants have two types of GA receptors, including soluble and membrane-bound forms. Recently, it was determined that the rice GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) gene encodes an unknown protein with similarity to the hormone-sensitive lipases that has high affinity only for biologically active GAs. Moreover, GID1 binds to SLR1, a repressor of GA signaling, in a GA-dependent manner in yeast cells. Based on these observations, it has been concluded that GID1 is a soluble receptor mediating GA signaling in rice. More recently, Arabidopsis thaliana was found to have three GID1 homologs, AtGID1a, b, and c, all of which bind GA and interact with the five Arabidopsis DELLA proteins.
17474017	Cellulase production was carried out by solid state bioconversion (SSB) method using rice straw, a lignocellulosic material and agricultural waste, as the substrate of three Trichoderma spp. and Phanerochaete chrysosporium in lab-scale experiments. The results were compared to select the best fungi among them for the production of cellulase. Phanerochaete chrysosporium was found to be the best among these species of fungi, which produced the highest cellulase enzyme of 1.43 IU/mL of filter paper activity (FPase) and 2.40 IU/mL of carboxymethylcellulose activity (CMCase). The "glucosamine" and "reducing sugar" parameters were observed to evaluate the growth and substrate utilization in the experiments. In the case of Phanerochaete Chrysosporium, the highest glucosamine concentration was 1.60 g/L and a high concentration of the release of reducing sugar was measured as 2.58 g/L obtained on the 4th day of fermentation. The pH values were also recorded. The range of the pH was about 5.15 to 5.56 in the case of Phanerochaete Chrysosporium.
1747524	The purpose of the present study is to investigate the relationship of chewing ability to nutrient and food intakes in the community elderly. Subjects consisted of 145 elderly residents (56 males, 89 females) ranging in age from 65 to 79 years, living at home in a village of Okinawa Prefecture. Chewing ability was divided into two categories: being able to chew ordinary foods was defined as "good", and being able to chew only soft foods as "bad". To determine quantitative food intakes 24-hour dietary records were utilized which were confirmed by nutritionists during interviews. Good chewing ability was found in 82.1% for males and 83.1% for females with no statistically significant difference concerning age or sex. Teeth status was significantly related to chewing ability. For both males and females, protein intake was lower in the group with bad chewing ability than in the good group. Only in males intakes of total energy, fats, Ca, and Fe were lower in the group with bad chewing ability. Concerning food items, intakes of dark green and yellow vegetables and fat in males, and intake of rice in females, were lower in the group with bad chewing ability.
17475294	The established GC-EI-TOF-MS method for the profiling of soluble polar metabolites from plant tissue was employed for the kinetic metabolic phenotyping of higher plants. Approximately 100 typical GC-EI-MS mass fragments of trimethylsilylated and methoxyaminated metabolite derivatives were structurally interpreted for mass isotopomer analysis, thus enabling the kinetic study of identified metabolites as well as the so-called functional group monitoring of yet non-identified metabolites. The monitoring of isotope dilution after (13)CO(2) labelling was optimized using Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 or Oryza sativa IR57111 plants, which were maximally labelled with (13)C. Carbon isotope dilution was evaluated for short (2h) and long-term (3 days) kinetic measurements of metabolite pools in root and shoots. Both approaches were shown to enable the characterization of metabolite specific partitioning processes and kinetics. Simplifying data reduction schemes comprising calculation of (13)C-enrichment from mass isotopomer distributions and of initial (13)C-dilution rates were employed. Metabolites exhibited a highly diverse range of metabolite and organ specific half-life of (13)C-label in their respective pools ((13)C-half-life). This observation implied the setting of metabolite specific periods for optimal kinetic monitoring. A current experimental design for the kinetic metabolic phenotyping of higher plants is proposed.
1747541	In the rice-producing district of Japan, environmental pollution by smoke from burnt rice straws has become a matter of concern. The mutagenicity of fly- and bottom-ashes of rice-straw and -husk was assayed by the Ames test, TA100 +/- S9 and TA98 +/- S9, and the relationship of combustion temperature to mutagenicity was investigated. Fly ash showed weak mutagenicity at 300 degrees C, with no remarkable change in mutagenic activity between 300 degrees C and 500 degrees C. Above 500 degrees C the mutagenic activity increased with a rise of temperature. The increasing rate of mutagenicity was much higher in the test system with S9 mix than that without S9. Moreover, the mutagenicity with TA100 was stronger than with TA98. With respect to bottom ash, weak mutagenic activity was observed at 300 degrees C, but at 400 degrees C decreased and at 500 degrees C or above could not be observed. Fly ash derived from burning 1 g of rice straw at 600 degrees C showed about 14 times and 2.5 times higher mutagenicity than main stream smoke condensates from the burning of 1 g of cigarette in TA100 + S9 and TA98 + S9 test systems respectively.
17478546	The cereal crops domesticated from grasses provide a large percentage of the calories consumed by humans. Domestication and breeding in individual cereals has historically occurred in isolation, although this is rapidly changing with comparative genomics of the sequenced or soon-to-be sequenced genomes of rice, sorghum, maize and Brachypodium. Genetic information transferred through genomic comparisons is helping our understanding of genetically less tractable crops such as the hexaploid wheats and polyploid sugarcane, as well as the approx. 10 000 species of wild grasses. In turn, phylogenetic analysis helps put our knowledge of the morphology of cereal crops into an evolutionary context. GRASS ARCHITECTURE: Domestication often involves a change in the pattern and timing of branching, which affects both vegetative and inflorescence architecture, and ultimately yield. Cereal grasses exhibit two main forms of vegetative architecture: the pooid and erhartoid cereals such as wheat and rice have multiple basal tillers, while panicoid cereals such as maize, sorghum and the millets have few tillers or even only a single main stem. These differences are reflected in the differences between the wild species of pooid and some erhartoid grasses, which emphasize basal branching over axillary branching, and the panicoid grasses, where axillary branching is more frequently found. A combination of phylogenetic and genomic analysis is beginning to reveal the similarities and differences between different cereal crops, and relate these to the diversity of wild grasses to which they are related. Recent work on genes controlling branching emphasizes that developmental genetics needs to be viewed in both an evolutionary and ecological framework, if it is to be useful in understanding how morphology evolves. Increasingly, exploring the phylogenetic context of the crop grasses will suggest new ways to identify and create combinations of morphological traits that will best suit our future needs.
17479243	A permanent mapping population of rice consisting of 65 non-idealized chromosome segment substitution lines (denoted as CSSL1 to CSSL65) and 82 donor parent chromosome segments (denoted as M1 to M82) was used to identify QTL with additive effects for two rice quality traits, area of chalky endosperm (ACE) and amylose content (AC), by a likelihood ratio test based on stepwise regression. Subsequently, the genetics and breeding simulation tool QuLine was employed to demonstrate the application of the identified QTL in rice quality improvement. When a LOD threshold of 2.0 was used, a total of 16 chromosome segments were associated with QTL for ACE, and a total of 15 segments with QTL for AC in at least one environment. Four target genotypes denoted as DG1 to DG4 were designed based on the identified QTL, and according to low ACE and high AC breeding objectives. Target genotypes DG1 and DG2 can be achieved via a topcross (TC) among the three lines CSSL4, CSSL28, and CSSL49. Results revealed that TC2: (CSSL4 x CSSL49) x CSSL28 and TC3: (CSSL28 x CSSL49) x CSSL4 resulted in higher DG1 frequency in their doubled haploid populations, whereas TC1: (CSSL4 x CSSL28) x CSSL49 resulted in the highest DG2 frequency. Target genotypes DG3 and DG4 can be developed by a double cross among the four lines CSSL4, CSSL28, CSSL49, and CSSL52. In a double cross, the order of parents affects the frequency of target genotype to be selected. Results suggested that the double cross between the two single crosses (CSSL4 x CSSL28) and (CSSL49 x CSSL52) resulted in the highest frequency for DG3 and DG4 genotypes in its derived doubled haploid derivatives. Using an enhancement selection methodology, alternative ways were investigated to increase the target genotype frequency without significantly increasing the total cost of breeding operations.
17479860	In recent studies it was observed antioxidant effects of statin independently on their hypolipemic effects. It is supposed that differences in statins pharmacological properties may cause different antioxidant actions. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of simvastatin, atorvastatin and pravastatin on plasma lipids, thio-barbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) concentrations in the isolated erythrocytes membranes, activities of antioxidants enzymes in erythrocytes: catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), superoxide dismutase (SOD) in patients (pts) with dyslipidemia. The study comprised 114 pts, including 94 pts with dyslipidemia without concomitant chronic diseases and 20 healthy volunteers. Pts were qualified to treatment with statins if their LDL-cholesterol concentration (LDL-C) was above 160 mg/dL (4.1 mmol/l), total cholesterol (TC) > 250 mg/dl (6.5 mmol/l) and triglicerydes (TG) < 400 mg/dl (4.5 mmol/L). Pts were randomized to three groups: group I-n = 31 pts treated with atorvastatin (10 mg/d); group II-n = 31-simvastatin (20 mg/d), group III-n = 32 pravastatin (20 mg/d). After 4 and 12 weeks of active treatment the following parameters were determined: TC, HDL-C, TG (by enzymatic method using bioMerieux tests); LDL-C was calculated from the Friedewald formula, TBARS concentrations (by method of Stock and Dormandy), CAT (method of Bartosz et al.), GSH-Px (method of Rice-Evansa et al.), SOD (method of Misra) activities. During statin therapy significant decrease of TC, LDL-C, TG was observed, both after 4 and 12 weeks, as compared with the initial values. All statins significantly decreased TBARS concentrations either 4 or 12 week therapy at all. The activities of antioxidants enzymes (CAT, GSH-Px, SOD) significantly increased after 4 weeks therapy in patients treated with atorvastatin and simvastatin. During pravastatin therapy it was noticed only increase of CAT activity after 12 weeks. In patients with dyslipidemia without clinical symptoms of atherosclerosis atorvastatin, simvastatin and pravastatin decreased similar TBARS concentrations in membrane in the isolated erythrocyte membranes. It was observed a significant increase of the antioxidant enzyme activities during atorvastatin and simvastatin treatment. Pravastatin therapy caused increase the CAT activity without any effect on the activities of GSH-Px and SOD.
17481406	This study aimed at developing competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) for the organophosphorus (OP) insecticide fenitrothion using a monoclonal antibody. The hapten used to obtain the antibody had an ideal structural feature that allowed minimal functional group sacrifice. By using the antibody and a coating antigen, a competitive indirect ELISA was developed, which showed an IC50 of 14 ng mL(-1) with a detection limit of 3.0 ng mL(-1). A competitive direct ELISA using an enzyme tracer was also developed, which showed an IC50 of 17 ng mL(-1) with a detection limit of 1.6 ng mL(-1). The antibodies in both assays showed negligible cross-reactivity with the metabolites of fenitrothion and other OP pesticides except with the insecticides parathion-methyl and parathion-ethyl. Recoveries of fenitrothion from fortified rice and lettuce samples were determined and the bias in the recovery values was rationalized by using the standard curves obtained in the matrix extract.
17481698	More and more people in Bangladesh have recently become aware of the risk of drinking arsenic-contaminated groundwater, and have been trying to obtain drinking water from less arsenic-contaminated sources. In this study, arsenic intakes of 18 families living in one block of a rural village in an arsenic-affected district of Bangladesh were evaluated to investigate their actual arsenic intake via food, including from cooking water, and to estimate the contribution of each food category and of drinking water to the total arsenic intake. Water consumption rates were estimated by the self-reporting method. The mean drinking water intake was estimated as about 3 L/d without gender difference. Arsenic intakes from food were evaluated by the duplicate portion sampling method. The duplicated foods from each family were divided into four categories (cooked rice, solid food, cereals for breakfast, and liquid food), and the arsenic concentrations of each food category and of the drinking water were measured. The mean arsenic intake from water and food by all 18 respondents was 0.15 +/-0.11 mg/d (range, 0.043 - 0.49), that by male subjects was 0.18 +/- 0.13 mg/d (n = 12) and that by female subjects was 0.096 +/- 0.007 mg/d (n = 6). The average contributions to the total arsenic intake were, from drinking water, 13%; liquid food, 4.4%; cooked rice, 56%; solid food, 11%; and cereals, 16%. Arsenic intake via drinking water was not high despite the highly contaminated groundwater in the survey area because many families had changed their drinking water sources to less-contaminated ones. Instead, cooked rice contributed most to the daily arsenic intake. Use of contaminated water for cooking by several families was suspected based on comparisons of arsenic concentrations between drinking water and liquid food, and between rice before and after cooking. Detailed investigation suggested that six households used contaminated water for cooking but not drinking, leading to an increase of arsenic intake via arsenic-contaminated cooking water.
17481804	In Nepal, soil erosion under maize (Zea mays) agro-ecosystems is most critical during the pre-monsoon season. Very few field experiments have been conducted on reduced tillage and rice straw (Oryza sativa) mulching, although these conservation approaches have been recommended. Thus, a five replicate field experiment was established in 2001 at Kathmandu University (1500 m above sea level) on land with 18% slope to evaluate the efficiency of reduced tillage and mulching on soil and nutrient losses and maize yield. The results showed non-significant differences among conservation approaches on runoff and maize yield. Mulching and reduced tillage significantly lowered annual and pre-monsoon soil and nutrient losses compared to conventional tillage. Soil organic matter (SOM) and nitrogen losses associated with eroded sediment were significantly higher in conventional tillage. However, due to limited availability and high opportunity cost of rice straw, reduced tillage would be a better option for soil and nutrient conservation without sacrificing economic yield in upland maize agro-ecosystems.
17482329	Annual emissions of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) from open burning of crop residues in each province of China mainland between 1997 and 2004 were estimated to be ranged from 1.38x10(3) to 1.52x10(3) g I-TEQ/yr, with the average of 1.50+/-0.08x10(3) g I-TEQ/yr, which contributed to approximately 10% approximately 20% of the total emissions in China. The PCDD/F emissions mainly occurred in the largest crop-producing provinces, especially in those of higher economic levels. The major sources of PCDD/F emissions from open burning in China were found to be cereal residues (i.e. rice, wheat, and corn), which accounted about 70% of the total emissions. Moreover, the first-order one-variable grey differential equation model (GM (1,1) model) for annual emissions of PCDD/Fs was established based on grey system theory. The GM (1,1) model was proved to be robust to predict the annual PCDD/F emissions from crop residue field burning in forthcoming years.
17483259	Despite the fact that rice paddy fields (RPFs) are contributing 10 to 25% of global methane emissions, the organisms responsible for methane production in RPFs have remained uncultivated and thus uncharacterized. Here we report the isolation of a methanogen (strain SANAE) belonging to an abundant and ubiquitous group of methanogens called rice cluster I (RC-I) previously identified as an ecologically important microbial component via culture-independent analyses. To enrich the RC-I methanogens from rice paddy samples, we attempted to mimic the in situ conditions of RC-I on the basis of the idea that methanogens in such ecosystems should thrive by receiving low concentrations of substrate (H(2)) continuously provided by heterotrophic H(2)-producing bacteria. For this purpose, we developed a coculture method using an indirect substrate (propionate) in defined medium and a propionate-oxidizing, H(2)-producing syntroph, Syntrophobacter fumaroxidans, as the H(2) supplier. By doing so, we significantly enriched the RC-I methanogens and eventually obtained a methanogen within the RC-I group in pure culture. This is the first report on the isolation of a methanogen within RC-I.
17483417	Nonrandom mating induces correlations in allelic states within and among loci that can be exploited to understand the genetic structure of natural populations (Wright 1965). For many species, it is of considerable interest to quantify the contribution of two forms of nonrandom mating to patterns of standing genetic variation: inbreeding (mating among relatives) and population substructure (limited dispersal of gametes). Here, we extend the popular Bayesian clustering approach STRUCTURE (Pritchard et al. 2000) for simultaneous inference of inbreeding or selfing rates and population-of-origin classification using multilocus genetic markers. This is accomplished by eliminating the assumption of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium within clusters and, instead, calculating expected genotype frequencies on the basis of inbreeding or selfing rates. We demonstrate the need for such an extension by showing that selfing leads to spurious signals of population substructure using the standard STRUCTURE algorithm with a bias toward spurious signals of admixture. We gauge the performance of our method using extensive coalescent simulations and demonstrate that our approach can correct for this bias. We also apply our approach to understanding the population structure of the wild relative of domesticated rice, Oryza rufipogon, an important partially selfing grass species. Using a sample of n = 16 individuals sequenced at 111 random loci, we find strong evidence for existence of two subpopulations, which correlates well with geographic location of sampling, and estimate selfing rates for both groups that are consistent with estimates from experimental data (s approximately 0.48-0.70).
17483453	El Nio events typically lead to delayed rainfall and decreased rice planting in Indonesia's main rice-growing regions, thus prolonging the hungry season and increasing the risk of annual rice deficits. Here we use a risk assessment framework to examine the potential impact of El Nio events and natural variability on rice agriculture in 2050 under conditions of climate change, with a focus on two main rice-producing areas: Java and Bali. We select a 30-day delay in monsoon onset as a threshold beyond which significant impact on the country's rice economy is likely to occur. To project the future probability of monsoon delay and changes in the annual cycle of rainfall, we use output from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change AR4 suite of climate models, forced by increasing greenhouse gases, and scale it to the regional level by using empirical downscaling models. Our results reveal a marked increase in the probability of a 30-day delay in monsoon onset in 2050, as a result of changes in the mean climate, from 9-18% today (depending on the region) to 30-40% at the upper tail of the distribution. Predictions of the annual cycle of precipitation suggest an increase in precipitation later in the crop year (April-June) of approximately 10% but a substantial decrease (up to 75% at the tail) in precipitation later in the dry season (July-September). These results indicate a need for adaptation strategies in Indonesian rice agriculture, including increased investments in water storage, drought-tolerant crops, crop diversification, and early warning systems.
17484376	Although we previously observed significant associations between intakes of several foods and constipation, definition of constipation was completely based on subjective perception assessed by a quite simple and single question: do you often have constipation? In this study, we examined the associations between food intake and functional constipation as defined according to symptom-based criteria (Rome I criteria: straining, hard stools, incomplete evacuation, and infrequency of bowel movement). Subjects were 3,835 female Japanese dietetic students aged 18-20 y from 53 institutions in Japan. Dietary intake was estimated with a validated, self-administered diet history questionnaire. The prevalence of functional constipation was 26.2%. Dietary intakes of several foods were significantly associated with functional constipation. A multivariate adjusted odds ratio (95% confidence interval; p for trend) for women in the highest quintile of dietary intake compared with those in the lowest was 0.59 (0.46-0.75; <0.0001) for rice, 0.77 (0.61-0.97; 0.003) for pulses, 1.64 (1.30-2.08; <0.0001) for confectioneries, and 1.41 (1.11-1.78; 0.01) for bread. In conclusion, intake of rice and pulse was negatively and that of confectioneries and bread was positively associated with functional constipation among a population of young Japanese women, which was generally consistent with our previous study where constipation was assessed by a quite simple question.
1748442	Frequency shifts in random signals, e.g., EMG or Doppler ultrasound, can be followed by monitoring one or more parameters of the power spectrum. When such a frequency parameter is determined over a finite length of the signal, a random error and sometimes a systematic error or bias are introduced. Approximate expressions, in terms of moments of the power spectrum, have been derived for bias and standard deviation of the estimates for mean frequency, zero-crossing frequency, and fractile frequency (of which the median frequency is a special case). Experimental results from surface EMG recordings of three human muscles in constant force isometric contractions were in agreement with the theoretical predictions. In this case the mean frequency had the smallest random error. It turned out that the measured values of the zero-crossing frequency can deviate considerably from the predictions by the Rice formula when the amplitude distribution is not exactly Gaussian. In the presence of noise, all frequency parameters show a systematic deviation, depending on the signal-to-noise ratio. In addition to known results on this deviation for mean and zero-crossing frequency, an exact and an approximate expression for the fractile frequency are given. In the case of EMG plus wide-band white noise, the median frequency has the best immunity to noise.
17485078	Iron uptake in plants is highly regulated in order to supply amounts sufficient for optimal growth while preventing excess accumulation. In response to iron deficiency, plants induce either reduction-based or chelation-based mechanisms to enhance iron uptake from the soil. Genes involved in each mechanism have been identified from various model plants including Arabidopsis and rice. Iron transport within plants is also tightly controlled. New information has emerged on transporters that play a role in xylem loading and phloem loading/unloading of iron, and on the iron chelators involved in iron homeostasis. Some of the components regulating iron deficiency responses also have been elucidated, demonstrating that iron dependent gene regulation occurs at both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels.
17485859	The model dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana has a characteristic small sub-family of phytochrome-interacting bHLH (basic Helix-Loop-Helix) factors, which are collectively designated the PIL (or PIF) (PHYTOCHROME INTERACTING FACTOR-LIKE) family proteins. In this study, we identified and characterized a set of highly homologous members (designated OsPIL11 to OsPIL16) in the model monocotyledon rice (Oryza sativa). Some of them (OsPIL11, OsPIL12, and OsPIL13) showed the ability to interact with the putative OsPRR1 (PSEUDO-RESPONSE REGULATOR 1) clock component, as far as the results of yeast two-hybrid assays were concerned. It was found that the expression of OsPIL13 is under the control of circadian rhythms (clock), while the expression of OsPIL15 is negatively regulated by light upon the onset to light exposure of etiolated seedlings. When the rice genes (OsPIL11 to OsPIL15) were over-expressed in A. thaliana, the resulting transgenic seedlings displayed anomalous morphologies with very long hypocotyls during early photomorphogenesis. These results suggest the view that the identified OsPILs are functional counterparts (or orthologs) of AtPILs, which are known to play important roles in red light-mediated (phyA and/or phyB-dependent) signal transduction pathways at immediate positions downstream of the photoreceptor in A. thaliana.
17485861	We found that appropriate treatment with a highly potent and long-lasting abscisic acid analog enhanced the tissue expansion of scutellum during early seedling development of rice, accompanied by increases of protein and starch accumulation in the tissue. A comparative display of the protein expression patterns in the abscisic acid analog-treated and non-treated tissues on two dimensional gel electrophoretogram indicated that approximately 30% of the scutellar proteins were induced by abscisic acid. The abscisic acid-induced proteins included sucrose metabolizing, glycolytic, and ATP-producing enzymes. Most of these enzyme proteins also increased during the seedling growth. In addition, the expression of some isoforms of UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, 3-phosphoglycerate kinase, and mitochondrial ATP synthase beta chain was stimulated in the scutellum, with suppressed expression of alpha-amylase. We concluded that abscisic acid directly and indirectly stimulates the expression of numerous proteins, including carbohydrate metabolic enzymes, in scutellar tissues.
17486114	Transcriptome analyses in eukaryotes, including mice and humans, have identified polyA-containing transcripts that lack long open reading frames (ORFs; >100 amino acids). These transcripts are believed most likely to function as non-coding RNAs, but their translational capacities and biological activities have not been characterized in detail. Here, we report that polished rice (pri), which was previously identified as a gene for a non-coding RNA in Drosophila, is in fact transcribed into a polycistronic mRNA that contains evolutionarily conserved short ORFs that encode 11 or 32 amino acid-long peptides. pri was expressed in all epithelial tissues during embryogenesis. The loss of pri function completely eliminated apical cuticular structures, including the epidermal denticles and tracheal taenidia, and also caused defective tracheal-tube expansion. We found that pri is essential for the formation of specific F-actin bundles that prefigures the formation of the denticles and taenidium. We provide evidences that pri acts non-cell autonomously and that four of the conserved pri ORFs are functionally redundant. These results demonstrate that pri has essential roles in epithelial morphogenesis by regulating F-actin organization.
17486123	We used the promoter trap technique to identify a rice plant, named 107#, in which the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene was expressed specifically in the endosperm. A single copy of the T-DNA was inserted into the plant genome, and a candidate gene OsRRM was identified by the insertion. The OsRRM promoter directed GUS expression specifically in rice endosperm, analogous to the GUS expression pattern observed in 107#. OsRRM is a single-copy gene in rice and encodes a nuclear protein containing 1005 amino-acid residues with two RNA recognition motifs and one Spen paralog and ortholog C-terminal domain. Western blot analysis confirmed that the OsRRM protein was specifically expressed in rice endosperm. Ectopic expression of OsRRM in transgenic plants led to abnormalities, such as short stature, retarded growth and low fructification rates. Our data, in conjunction with the reported function of Spen genes, implicated OsRRM in the regulation of cell development in rice endosperm.
17486310	One outcome of hybrid breakdown is poor growth, which we observed as a reduction in the number of panicles per plant and in culm length in an F(2) population derived from a cross between the genetically divergent rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars 'Sasanishiki' (japonica) and 'Habataki' (indica). Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of the two traits and two-way ANOVA of the detected QTLs suggested that the poor growth was due mainly to an epistatic interaction between genes at QTLs located on chromosomes 2 and 11. The poor growth was likely to result when a plant was homozygous for the 'Habataki' allele at the QTL on chromosome 2 and homozygous for the 'Sasanishiki' allele at the QTL on chromosome 11. The results suggest that the poor growth found in the F(2) population was due to hybrid breakdown of a set of complementary genes. To test this hypothesis and determine the precise chromosomal location of the genes causing the hybrid breakdown, we performed genetic analyses using a chromosome segment substitution line, in which a part of chromosome 2 from 'Habataki' was substituted into the genetic background of 'Sasanishiki'. The segregation patterns of poor growth in plants suggested that both of the genes underlying the hybrid breakdown were recessive. The gene on chromosome 2, designated hybrid breakdown 2 (hbd2), was mapped between simple sequence repeat markers RM3515 and RM3730. The gene on chromosome 11, hbd3, was mapped between RM5824 and RM1341.
17487470	Reproductive barriers are important for the maintenance of species identity. We discovered a reproductive barrier via hybrid breakdown among the progeny of a cross between the japonica rice cultivar Koshihikari and the indica rice cultivar Habataki. Genetic analysis indicated that the hybrid breakdown is regulated by the interaction of two recessive genes: hbd2 in Habataki and hbd3 in Koshihikari. Linkage mapping showed that hbd2 is located near the 100 cM region of chromosome 2 in Habataki, whereas hbd3 is located near the 60 cM region of chromosome 11 in Koshihikari. Construction of nearly isogenic lines for hbd2 and Hbd3 (NIL-hbd2 and NIL-Hbd3), as well as a pyramiding line (NIL-hbd2 + Hbd3), confirmed that the hybrid breakdown is induced by the interaction of these two recessive genes. Our results indicate that these genes are novel for the induction of hybrid breakdown in rice.
17487829	Fluorescent pseudomonad strains Pf1, TDK1 and PY15 individually and in combination were evaluated against leaffolder, Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guen., in rice under in vitro, glasshouse and field conditions. Among the various treatments used, a combination of Pf1, TDK1 and PY15 strains effectively reduced the incidence of leaffolder pest in rice plants to an extent comparable with chlorpyrifos-methyl. In addition, morphogenesis of the insect pest in all stages, larval, pupal and adult, was greatly affected by a combination of Pseudomonas Pf1, TDK1 and PY15 strains. Further, the induction of defence-related molecules was demonstrated. An increased accumulation of defence molecules such as chitinase and proteinase inhibitors was observed with a combined Pf1, TDK1 and PY15 treatment compared with all other treatments. Western blot analysis of chitinase revealed the extra induction of 18, 28 and 35 kDa isoforms in rice plants treated with a mixture of Pf1, TDK1 and PY15 strains against leaffolder pest. The study revealed that a combination of fluorescent pseudomonad strains affects the development of leaffolder pest by inducing defence molecules in rice plants which in turn enhance resistance to leaffolder attack.
17488117	A bread-baking process was developed using a potential novel enzyme, cyclodextrin glucanotransferase[3-18] (CGTase[3-18]), that had previously been engineered to have enhanced hydrolyzing activity with little cyclodextrin (CD) formation activity toward starch. CGTase[3-18] was primarily manipulated to be displayed on the cell surface of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. S. cerevisiae carrying pdeltaCGT integrated into the chromosome exhibited starch-hydrolyzing activity at the same optimal pH and temperature as the free enzyme. Volumes of the bread loaves and rice cakes prepared using S. cerevisiae/pdeltaCGT increased by 20% and 45%, respectively, with no detectable CD. Retrogradation rates of the bread and rice cakes decreased significantly during storage. In comparison to the wild type, S. cerevisiae/pdeltaCGT showed improved viability during four freeze-thaw cycles. The results indicated that CGTase[3-18] displayed on the surface of yeast hydrolyzed starch to glucose and maltose that can be used more efficiently for yeast fermentation. Therefore, display of an antistaling enzyme on the cell surface of yeast has potential for enhancing the baking process.
17488261	We describe two cases of swallowing-induced tachyarrhythmias that were cured by radiofrequency ablation (RFCA) using a non-contact mapping system (NCMS). In both patients, tachyarrhythmias occurred during swallowing solids and liquids, and mapping and ablation of the arrhythmia using the NCMS was attempted during swallowing a rice ball. During a premature atrial contraction shortly after the swallow, the earliest endocardial breakthrough occurred at the right superior pulmonary vein (PV) ostium in Case 1 and at the left superior PV ostium and postero-inferior right atrium in Case 2. Guided by the NCMS catheter navigation system, the ablation catheter was easily and precisely positioned at a site where the earliest endocardial breakthrough occurred. RFCA at that site resulted in success and no recurrence or complications occurred during the follow-up in either patient.
17488907	Irrigation for rice cultivation increases the production of Anopheles gambiae, the main vector of malaria in Mali. Mosquito abundance is highly variable across villages and seasons. We examined whether rice cultivation patterns mapped using remotely sensed imagery can account for some of this variance. We collected entomologic data and mapped land use around 18 villages in the two cropping seasons during two years. Land use classification accuracy ranged between 70% and 86%. The area of young rice explained 86% of the inter-village variability in An. gambiae abundance in August before the peak in malaria transmission. Estimating rice in a 900-meter buffer area around the villages resulted in the best correlation with mosquito abundance, larger buffer areas were optimum in the October and dry season models. The quantification of the relationship between An. gambiae abundance and rice cultivation could have management applications that merit further study.
17489690	A major challenge facing agricultural scientists today is the need to secure food for an increasing world population. This growth occurs predominantly in developing, mostly tropical countries, where the majority of hungry people live. Reducing yield losses caused by pathogens of tropical agricultural crops is one measure that can contribute to increased food production. Although plant-parasitic nematodes are often not as important as some other biotic and nonbiotic constraints on crop production in the tropics, they can nevertheless cause extensive damage and substantial yield losses. The effects of agricultural, environmental, socioeconomic, and policy changes on the occurrence of plant-parasitic nematodes in the tropics and the losses these pathogens cause are largely undocumented. Recent developments pose new challenges to tropical nematology. The increased application of molecular diagnostics may widen the knowledge gap between nematologists working in developed countries and in the tropics. Uncertainties concerning the validity of nematode species will lead to practical problems related to quarantine measures and nematode management. The study of interactions between nematodes and other pathogens in disease complexes provide opportunities for multidisciplinary research with scientists from other disciplines but remain underexploited. Difficulties in recognizing emerging nematode threats prevent the timely implementation of management strategies, thus increasing yield losses. Research is needed to address these challenges. Examples are presented mainly but not exclusively from banana, peanut, and rice nematology.
17489691	The rice blast pathosystem has been the subject of intense interest in part because of the importance of the disease to world agriculture, but also because both Magnaporthe oryzae and its host are amenable to advanced experimental approaches. The goal of this review is to provide an overview of the system and to point out recent significant studies that update our understanding of the biology of M. oryzae. The genome sequence of M. oryzae has provided insight into how genome structure and pathogen population genetic variability has been shaped by transposable elements. The sequence allows systematic approaches to long-standing areas of investigation, including pathogen development and the molecular basis of compatible and incompatible interactions with its host. Rice blast provides an integrated system to illustrate most of the important concepts governing fungal/plant interactions and serves as an excellent starting point for gaining a broad perspective of issues in plant pathology.
17490784	Paederus dermatitis is a peculiar irritant contact dermatitis caused when beetles of the genus Paederus (often called rove beetles) are crushed on the skin, releasing the vesicant pederin. The dermatitis is most frequently seen in regions with a hot, tropical climate. We describe 123 patients who presented to our dermatology department at a suburban teaching hospital located in Tamilnadu, South India, known for its long, hot summers. Ours was a 1-year prospective study (January 2005 to December 2005). The peak time of presentation was during April. The mean duration of lesions before presentation was 2.7 days. The neck and arms were the most common sites of involvement. Male patients outnumbered female patients in our study (males 65%, females 35%). The mean age of patients was 23.4 years. Clinically, the most common presentation consisted of linear, geographic, erythematous plaques with a "burnt" appearance. In 61% of patients, more than one lesion was present. Vesicles were seen in 33.3% of patients and pustules in 4.9% of patients. "Kissing lesions" were seen in 1.6% of patients. Periorbital involvement occurred in 4.9% of patients. The majority of patients were students residing in various hostels in our campus, within 1 km of rice fields. Species identification of the Paederus beetles was not done. In addition, skin biopsy of the lesions was not done and no histopathologic examination was performed. An outbreak of paederus dermatitis can occur in tropical regions. Awareness of the condition and its clinical features will prevent misdiagnosis. Simple preventive measures can be undertaken based on the behavioral pattern of this nocturnal beetle.
17490976	Nightblindness affects 16-52% of pregnant women in areas of Nepal and in some cases persists after vitamin A treatment. Iron and riboflavin affect vitamin A utilization and photoreceptor function, respectively, and pilot data in the study population showed a high prevalence of iron and riboflavin deficiencies. The objective was to assess the effect of supplemental iron and riboflavin on pupillary threshold (PT) and plasma retinol in nightblind, pregnant Nepali women given vitamin A-fortified rice. Nightblind pregnant women were randomly assigned to receive, 6 d/wk under supervision for 6 wk, a vitamin A-fortified rice curry dish providing 850 microg retinal activity equivalents/d with either a 30-mg Fe and 6-mg riboflavin (FeR + VA) capsule or a placebo control (VA only) capsule. Hemoglobin, erythrocyte riboflavin, and plasma ferritin and retinol were measured before and after the intervention. Dark adaptation was assessed by PT score. Women who were iron deficient at baseline (n=38) had significantly greater improvement in PT score with iron and riboflavin supplementation than without (P=0.05). Iron and riboflavin supplements significantly reduced the prevalences of riboflavin deficiency (from 60% to 6%; P<0.0001), iron deficiency anemia (from 35% to 15%; P<0.007), and abnormal PT (from 87% to 30%; P<0.05) from baseline. Mean increases in erythrocyte riboflavin (P<0.0001) and plasma ferritin (P=0.01) were greater in the FeR + VA group than in the VA only group. Iron deficiency may limit the efficacy of vitamin A to normalize dark adaptation in pregnant Nepali women. Further studies are needed to assess the effect of simultaneous delivery of iron and vitamin A for the treatment of nightblindness.
17492242
17492423	DNA polymorphism of the Wx gene in glutinous rice cultivars was investigated by PCR-RF-SSCP and heteroduplex cleavage analysis using Brassica petiole extract, and the nucleotide sequence variations were identified. Most japonica-type glutinous rice was found to have a 23-bp duplication in the second exon, which causes loss of the function of granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS) encoded by the Wx gene. Without the 23-bp duplication, there was an insertion of 7,764 bp in the ninth exon of the wx allele of 'Oragamochi'. Expression analysis of the wx allele using RT-PCR and Northern blot analysis revealed that transcripts of the 'Oragamochi' wx allele are about 1-kb shorter and that the deduced amino acid sequence of the transcript lacks a motif important for GBSS. Therefore, this insertion was considered to be the cause of the glutinous trait of 'Oragamochi'. This 7,764-bp insertion had long terminal repeats, a primer binding site, and a polypurine tract, but no sequence homologous with gag and pol, suggesting that it is a non-autonomous element. Furthermore, it had a structure similar to Dasheng and may be a member of Dasheng.
17495343	Rice is a model genome for cereal research, providing important information about genome structure and evolution. Retrotransposons are common components of grass genomes, showing activity at transcription, translation and integration levels. Their abundance and ability to transpose make them good potential markers. In this study, we used 2 multilocus PCR-based techniques that detect retrotransposon integration events in the genome: IRAP (inter-retrotransposon amplified polymorphism) and REMAP (retrotransposon-microsatellite amplified polymorphism). Markers derived from Tos17, a copia-like endogenous retrotransposon of rice, were used to identify genetic similarity among 51 rice cultivars (Oryza sativa L.). Genetic similarity analysis was performed by means of the Dice coefficient, and dendrograms were developed by using the average linkage distance method. A cophenetic correlation coefficient was also calculated. The clustering techniques revealed a good adjustment between matrices, with correlation coefficients of 0.74 and 0.80, or lower (0.21) but still significant, between IRAP and REMAP-based techniques. Consistent clusters were found for Japanese genotypes, while a subgroup clustered the irrigated Brazilian genotypes.
17495986	Archaeobotany, the study of plant remains from sites of ancient human activity, provides data for studying the initial evolution of domesticated plants. An important background to this is defining the domestication syndrome, those traits by which domesticated plants differ from wild relatives. These traits include features that have been selected under the conditions of cultivation. From archaeological remains the easiest traits to study are seed size and in cereal crops the loss of natural seed dispersal. The rate at which these features evolved and the ordering in which they evolved can now be documented for a few crops of Asia and Africa. This paper explores this in einkorn wheat (Triticum monococcum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) from the Near East, rice (Oryza sativa) from China, mung (Vigna radiata) and urd (Vigna mungo) beans from India, and pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) from west Africa. Brief reference is made to similar data on lentils (Lens culinaris), peas (Pisum sativum), soybean (Glycine max) and adzuki bean (Vigna angularis). Available quantitative data from archaeological finds are compiled to explore changes with domestication. The disjunction in cereals between seed size increase and dispersal is explored, and rates at which these features evolved are estimated from archaeobotanical data. Contrasts between crops, especially between cereals and pulses, are examined. These data suggest that in domesticated grasses, changes in grain size and shape evolved prior to non-shattering ears or panicles. Initial grain size increases may have evolved during the first centuries of cultivation, within perhaps 500-1000 years. Non-shattering infructescences were much slower, becoming fixed about 1000-2000 years later. This suggests a need to reconsider the role of sickle harvesting in domestication. Pulses, by contrast, do not show evidence for seed size increase in relation to the earliest cultivation, and seed size increase may be delayed by 2000-4000 years. This implies that conditions that were sufficient to select for larger seed size in Poaceae were not sufficient in Fabaceae. It is proposed that animal-drawn ploughs (or ards) provided the selection pressure for larger seeds in legumes. This implies different thresholds of selective pressure, for example in relation to differing seed ontogenetics and underlying genetic architecture in these families. Pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) may show some similarities to the pulses in terms of a lag-time before truly larger-grained forms evolved.
17496110	Alternative splicing (AS) can add significantly to genome complexity. Plants are thought to exhibit less AS than animals. An algorithm, based on expressed sequence tag (EST) pairs gapped alignment, was developed that takes advantage of the relatively small intron and exon size in plants and directly compares pairs of ESTs to search for AS. EST pairs gapped alignment was first evaluated in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), rice (Oryza sativa), and tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) for which annotated genome sequence is available and was shown to accurately predict splicing events. The method was then applied to 11 plant species that include 17 cultivars for which enough ESTs are available. The results show a large, 3.7-fold difference in AS rates between plant species with Arabidopsis and rice in the lower range and lettuce (Lactuca sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) in the upper range. Hence, compared to higher animals, plants show a much greater degree of variety in their AS rates and in some plant species the rates of animal and plant AS are comparable although the distribution of AS types may differ. In eudicots but not monocots, a correlation between genome size and AS rates was detected, implying that in eudicots the mechanisms that lead to larger genomes are a driving force for the evolution of AS.
17496969	The present work was undertaken to formulate an effective bioformulation using Burkholderia sp. strain MSSP, a known plant-growth-promoting rhizobacterium. MSSP was tagged with the reporter gene of green fluorescent protein (gfp) to monitor its population in cost-effective solid carriers, including sugarcane-bagasse, sawdust, cocoa peat, rice husk, wheat bran, charcoal, and rock phosphate, and paneer-whey as liquid carrier. Physical and chemical properties of different low-cost carrier materials were studied. The viability of the green fluorescent tagged variant of MSSP was estimated in different sterile carrier materials. Whey and wheat bran proved to be efficient carrier materials for the bioformulation. Sawdust, rock phosphate, rice husk, and cocoa peat were average, while charcoal and sugarcane-bagasse proved to be inferior carriers. The viability of strain MSSP was also assessed in wheat bran and whey-based consortium, having three other bacterial strains, namely Sinorhizobium meliloti PP3, Rhizobium leguminosarum Pcc, and Bacillus sp. strain B1. Presence of other plant-growth-promoting bacteria did not have any detrimental effect on the viability of MSSP. Efficiency of the wheat-bran-based multispecies consortium was studied on the growth of pigeonpea in field conditions. A considerable increase in plant biomass, nodule number and weight, and number of pods was recorded as compared with individual trials and with the control.
17496971	Contamination by mold is a serious problem in steam-cooked rice cake, a traditional Chinese food. Growth responses to different temperatures and water activity values for Penicillium citreoviride and Penicillium citrinum, two of the most common molds, were investigated. Partial least square regression analysis showed that the growth of the two fungi did not differ in response to changes in water activity and temperature. Optimum water activity for growth was 0.90 and optimum temperatures for growth were 30 degrees C in most cases.
17498234	Fermented beverages and foods have played a significant role in most societies worldwide for millennia. To better understand how the yeast species Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the main fermenting agent, evolved along this historical and expansion process, we analysed the genetic diversity among 651 strains from 56 different geographical origins, worldwide. Their genotyping at 12 microsatellite loci revealed 575 distinct genotypes organized in subgroups of yeast types, i.e. bread, beer, wine, sake. Some of these groups presented unexpected relatedness: Bread strains displayed a combination of alleles intermediate between beer and wine strains, and strains used for rice wine and sake were most closely related to beer and bread strains. However, up to 28% of genetic diversity between these technological groups was associated with geographical differences which suggests local domestications. Focusing on wine yeasts, a group of Lebanese strains were basal in an F(ST) tree, suggesting a Mesopotamia-based origin of most wine strains. In Europe, migration of wine strains occurred through the Danube Valley, and around the Mediterranean Sea. An approximate Bayesian computation approach suggested a postglacial divergence (most probable period 10,000-12,000 bp). As our results suggest intimate association between man and wine yeast across centuries, we hypothesize that yeast followed man and vine migrations as a commensal member of grapevine flora.
17498320	To assess the validity of the adapted Radimer/Cornell questionnaire to measure food insecurity in low-income urban households in Tehran, the capital of Iran. The Radimer/Cornell questionnaire was modified and used to assess the applicability, validity and reliability of such a measure in a culturally different context of urban households in Tehran. Factor analysis and Cronbach's alpha were used to assess validity and reliability, respectively. Socio-economic characteristics and food consumption frequency of the household were used to assess the criterion validity of the questionnaire. District 20 of Tehran. A sample of 250 Iranian nuclear households with at least one child aged 1-18 years and a non-pregnant, non-lactating woman of reproductive age, selected through a multistage random sampling method. Three scales, labelled as household, individual and child hunger, were extracted through factor analysis using varimax rotation. Internal consistency of the scales was 0.897, 0.820 and 0.796, respectively. Individual insecurity and child hunger were inversely correlated with monthly per capita income, father's education, mother's education and father's occupational status, and positively correlated with household size, as expected. However, household insecurity did not follow the same pattern. Consumption frequency of fruits, vegetables, dairy, red meat and rice declined as food insecurity status worsened, while bread and potato consumption increased. The results show that a modified version of the Radimer/Cornell questionnaire is a valid and reliable instrument to measure household food insecurity in a culturally different context. However, further modifications seem necessary to measure food insecurity at household level. Results lend support to the utility and applicability of experience-based measures in varying cultural communities.
17498621	The quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for the seedling vigor traits under 12 degrees C cold water irrigation, such as the seedling height, the seedling fresh weight, the seedling dry weight, and their cold response index, were identified using an F(2/3) population including 200 individuals and lines derived from a cross of indica and japonica "Milyang 23/Jileng 1" with microsatellite markers. All seedling vigor traits exhibited a continuous distribution near normal in F3 lines; these traits were quantitative traits controlled by multiple genes. Twelve QTLs conferring the seedling vigor traits under cold water irrigation were detected on chromosomes 1, 2, 7, 8, and 12, which explained the observed phenotypic variance from 5.2% to 17.9%. Among them, qCSH2 and qCSH12 were located in RM262-RM263 on chromosome 2 and RM270-RM17 on chromosome 12, respectively, which were associated with the seedling height. qSDW12 and qCSDW1 were located in RM19-RM270 on chromosome 12 and RM129-RM9 on chromosome 1, respectively, which were correlated with the seedling dry weight and its cold response index, and the explained 16.6%, 17.9%, 15.9%, and 16.2% of the observed phenotypic variation, respectively. These QTLs alleles were derived from cold-tolerant parent Jileng 1; the gene actions of the two front genes showed their additive effect, and the two genes blind showed dominant and over dominant effects, respectively.
17498622	Alternative splicing is a major contributor to genomic complexity and proteome diversity, yet the analysis of alternative splicing for the sequence containing nucleotide binding site and leucine-rich repeats (NBS-LRR) domain has not been explored in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Hidden Markov model (HMM) searches were performed for NBS-LRR domain. 875 NBS-LRR-encoding sequences were obtained from the Institute for Genomic Research (TIGR). All of them were used to blast Knowledge-based Oryza Molecular Biological Encyclopaedia (KOME), TIGR rice gene index (TGI), and Universal Protein Resource (UniProt) to obtain homologous full-length cDNAs (FL-cDNAs), tentative consensus sequences, and protein sequences. Alternative splicing events were detected from genomic alignment of FL-cDNAs, tentative consensus sequences, and protein sequences, which provide valuable information on splice variants of genes. These sequences were aligned to the corresponding BAC sequences using the Spidey and Sim4 programs and each of the proteins was aligned by tBLASTn. Of the 875 NBS-LRR sequences, 119 (13.6%) sequences had alternative splicing where multiple FL-cDNAs, TGI sequences and proteins corresponded to the same gene. 71 intron retention events, 20 exon skipping events, 16 alternative termination events, 25 alternative initiation events, 12 alternative 5' splicing events, and 16 alternative 3' splicing events were identified. Most of these alternative splices were supported by two or more transcripts. The data sets are available at http://www.bioinfor.org Furthermore, the bioinformatics analysis of splice boundaries showed that exon skipping and intron retention did not exhibit strong consensus. This implies a different regulation mechanism that guides the expression of splice isoforms. This article also presents the analysis of the effects of intron retention on proteins. The C-terminal regions of alternative proteins turned out to be more variable than the N-terminal regions. Finally, tissue distribution and protein localization of alternative splicing were explored. The largest categories of tissue distributions for alternative splicing were shoot and callus. More than one-thirds of protein localization for splice forms was plasma membrane and cytoplasm. All the NBS-LRR proteins for splice forms may have important function in disease resistance and activate downstream signaling pathways.
17498623	Previously, a moderately repetitive DNA sequence (RRD3) was cloned from rice (Oryza sativa L.) by DNA renaturation kinetics. Sequence analysis revealed several conserved promoter motifs, including four TATA-boxes and a CAAT-box, and promoter activity was shown in Escherichia coli and mammalian expression systems. Here, we inserted the RRD3 fragment into the plant promoter-capture vector, pCAMBIA1391Z, and examined whether the RRD3 fragment has promoter activity in plants. Transgenic tobacco and rice calli both showed beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity, indicating that RRD3 can act as a promoter in both monocot and dicot plants. Based on the promoter characteristic of RRD3, we designed a plant universal binary vector, pCRiRRD3, which is suitable for performing researches on plant RNA interference. This vector has two multiple cloning sites to facilitate sense and antisense cloning of the target sequence, separated by an intron fragment of 200 bp. The efficiency of the vector for gene silencing was assayed by histochemical and quantitative fluorometric GUS assays in transgenic tobacco. These research results suggested that this plant RNAi vector pCRiRRD3 can effectively perform gene silencing researches on both monocot and dicot plants.
17498631	A green-revertible albino mutant-Qiufeng M was found from the japonica rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) Qiufeng in the field. The first three leaves of the mutant were albino with some green. The leaf color became pale green since the fourth leaf and the glume had the same phenomenon as the first three leaves. The measuring data of the pigment content confirmed the visually observed results. It truly had a remarkable changing process in the leaf color in Qiufeng M. Comparison of the main agronomic characters between Qiufeng and Qiufeng M indicated that the neck length and grain weight showed significant difference at the 1% level, and other characters were not different. Genetic analysis showed that the green-revertible albino trait was controlled by a single recessive nucleic gene. Using 209 recessive mutant individuals in the F(2) population derived from the cross Pei'ai 64S x Qiufeng M, a gene, tentatively named gra((t)), was located between the SSR markers of RM475 and RM2-22 on the long arm of chromosome 2. The genetic distance were 17.3 cM and 2.9 cM respectively.
17498774	The IMPROVE thermal/optical reflectance (TOR) method, commonly used for EC quantification in atmospheric aerosols, is applied to soils and sediments and compared with a thermochemical method commonly applied to these non-atmospheric samples. TOR determines elemental carbon (EC) by an optical method, but it also yields thermally defined EC fractions in a 2% O2/98% He oxidizing atmosphere at 550 degrees C (EC1), 700 degrees C (EC2), and 800 degrees C (EC3). Replicate TOR TC, OC, and EC values exhibited precisions of approximately +/-10% as determined from multiple analyses of the same samples. EC abundances relative to total mass concentrations were within the ranges reported by other methods for diesel exhaust soot, n-hexane soot, wood and rice chars, and coals, as well as for environmental matrices. A direct comparison with the chemothermal (CTO) method of Gustafson et al. for ten soil and sediment samples demonstrated that almost all of the OC and EC1 are eliminated, as is part of the EC2. The CTO soot carbon is bounded by the EC3 and EC2+EC3 fractions of the IMPROVE TOR analysis. It might be possible to adjust these fractions to obtain better agreement between atmospheric aerosol and soil/sediment analysis methods. Given its linking the EC measurement in the atmosphere to sediments, the TOR method will not only provide useful information on the explanation and comparison between different environmental matrices, but also can be used to derive information on global cycling of EC.
17498837	UV-irradiation increased the concentration of momilactone B in shoots and roots of rice seedlings, and increasing the irradiation increased the concentration. The concentration in 90-min UV-irradiated shoots and roots, respectively, was 31.8- and 3.6-fold higher than that in non-irradiated shoots and roots. After UV-irradiation the concentration of momilactone B in rice shoots decreased. There was, however, an accumulation of momilactone B in the medium in which UV-irradiated seedlings were grown. Five days after UV-irradiation, momilactone B in the medium was at a level 2.5 times greater than on day 0, which was 47% of momilactone B in the seedlings, suggesting that rice may actively secrete momilactone B into medium. Therefore, UV-irradiation increased not only production of momilactone B in rice seedlings but also secretion of momilactone B into rice rhizosphere. As momilactone B acts as an antimicrobial and allelopathic agent, secretion of momilactone B into the rhizosphere may provide a competitive advantage for root establishment through local suppression of soil microorganism and inhibition of the growth of competing plant species.
17499610	NF-kappaB family of transcription factors are involved in numerous cellular processes, including differentiation, proliferation, and inflammation. It was reported that hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives (HADs) are inhibitors of NF-kappaB activation. Rice bran oil contains a lot of phytosteryl ferulates, one of HADs. We have investigated effects of phytosteryl ferulates on NF-kappaB activation in macrophage. Cycloartenyl ferulate (CAF), one of phytosteryl ferulates, significantly reduced lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced NO production and mRNA expression of inducible NO synthase and cyclooxygenese-2 but upregulated SOD activity. Electrophoresis mobility shift assay revealed that CAF inhibited DNA-binding of NF-kappaB. CAF and phytosteryl ferulates probably have potentially anti-inflammatory properties.
17499824	Several d-amino acids have been identified in plants. However, the biosynthetic pathway to them is unclear. In this study, we cloned and sequenced a cDNA encoding a serine racemase from barley which contained an open reading frame encoding 337 amino acid residues. The deduced amino acid sequence showed significant identity to plant and mammalian serine racemases and contained conserved pyridoxal 5-phosphate (PLP)-binding lysine and PLP-interacting amino acid residues. The purified gene product catalyzed not only racemization of serine but also dehydration of serine to pyruvate. The enzyme requires PLP and divalent cations such as Ca(2+), Mg(2+), or Mn(2+), but not ATP, whereas mammalian serine racemase activity is increased by ATP. In addition to the results regarding the effect of ATP on enzyme activity and the phylogenetic analysis of eukaryotic serine racemases, the antiserum against Arabidopsis serine racemase did not form a precipitate with barley and rice serine racemases. This suggests that plant serine racemases represent a distinct group in the eukaryotic serine racemase family and can be clustered into monocot and dicot types.
1750120	In rural Bangladesh, standard glucose based oral rehydration salt (glucose-ORS) and rice based oral rehydration salt (rice-ORS) were compared as domiciliary treatment for watery diarrhoea. Using identical supply systems, packaged glucose-ORS was provided in one area and packets of rice-ORS in another. Mothers of under-five children in each area were trained in the preparation and use of the respective ORS. A third area, where no ORS was provided from the study source, served as comparison. In two years of surveillance and follow-up about 10,000 diarrhoeal episodes were detected in each area, approximately one-third of which were watery diarrhoea. Rice-ORS alone was used to treat 74% of these episodes and glucose-ORS alone for 65% of the episodes in the respective areas. Drugs were the main treatment regimen used in the comparison area. Results of the study showed that rice-ORS treated episodes of watery diarrhoea ended with shorter duration (median duration 2 days vs. 4 days) and fewer hospitalisation (0.1% vs. 0.5%) compared to those treated with glucose-ORS. These differences were statistically significant. But, diarrhoeal mortality was unaffected by the use of either ORS under the study situation.
17502134	An experiment was conducted to evaluate the effect of fermentation on the proximate composition of corn cob, rice bran and cowpea husk for use in composite rabbit feed formulations. The test ingredients were moistened with tap water and allowed to ferment naturally at room temperature. During fermentation, samples of the fermenting materials were extracted at zero, 24 and 48 h for physico-chemical and microbiological analyses using standard procedures. The microorganisms associated with the fermenting materials were identified as Rhizopus oligosporus, Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus niger, Rhodotorula, Geotrichum candidum, Candida albicans, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Two (R. oligosporus and S. cerevisiae) out of microorganisms present were used as starter cultures to ferment the test ingredients and the fermented products were then analyzed. From the results obtained S. cerevisiae enhanced the protein and fat contents while R. oligosporus was able to degrade the fiber significantly.
17502899	Two sequence-tagged site (STS) markers for the wheat yellow rust resistance (R) gene Yr5 have been derived through the identification and characterization of linked amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). The sequences of the 2 AFLP markers partially overlap with one another, but belong to discrete loci: S19M93-140 completely cosegregates with Yr5, whereas S23M41-310 maps at a distance of 0.7 cM. The DNA sequence of S23M41-310 shows significant homology with the 3' end of nucleotide-binding site (NBS) - leucine-rich repeat (LRR) - type R-genes, in particular with orthologues of the rice bacterial blight R-gene Xa-I. The distinct genetic location of the 2 AFLP loci suggests that Yr5 falls within an R-gene cluster. Because neither sequence forms part of a detectable transcription product, we propose that the Yr5 R-gene cluster includes R-gene analogues and pseudogenes. A Yr5 flanking simple sequence repeat (SSR) marker has also been identified, which allows Yr5 to be effectively incorporated, along with other R-genes for yellow rust, into elite wheat genetic backgrounds, through marker-assisted selection.
17502901	Sequencing of the rice genome has provided a platform for functional genomics research of rice and other cereal species. However, multiple approaches are needed to determine the functions of its genes and sequences and to use the genome sequencing results for genetic improvement of cereal crops. Here, we report a plant-transformation-competent, binary bacterial artificial chromosome (BIBAC) and bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) based map of rice to facilitate these studies. The map was constructed from 20 835 BIBAC and BAC clones, and consisted of 579 overlapping BIBAC/BAC contigs. To facilitate functional analysis of chromosome 8 genomic sequence and cloning of the genes and QTLs mapped to the chromosome, we anchored the chromosomal contigs to the existing rice genetic maps. The chromosomal map consists of 11 contigs, 59 genetic markers, and 36 sequence tagged sites, spanning a total of ca. 38 Mb in physical length. Comparative analysis between the genetic and physical maps of chromosome 8 showed that there are 3 "hot" and 2 "cold" spots of genetic recombination along the chromosomal arms in addition to the "cold spot" in the centromeric region, suggesting that the sequence component contents of a chromosome may affect its local genetic recombination frequencies. Because of its plant transformability, the BIBAC/BAC map could provide a platform for functional analysis of the rice genome sequence and effective use of the sequencing results for gene and QTL cloning and molecular breeding.
17502903	Classic Mendelian genetics declares that hybrids inherit genomic information from both male and female parents, and that alleles should be heterozygous in F1 plants. A few exceptions to this principle have been reported, but most of them are restricted to either a limited set of specific genes or specific types of alleles. Here, we show that a rice triploid and diploid hybridization resulted in stable diploid progenies, both in genotypes and phenotypes, through gene homozygosity. Furthermore, their gene homozygosity can be inherited through 8 generations, and they can convert DNA sequences of other rice varieties into their own. Molecular-marker examination confirmed that this type of genome-wide gene conversion occurred at a very high frequency. Possible mechanisms, including RNA-templated repair of double-strand DNA, are discussed.
17503830	Thermal denaturation of recombinant human lactoferrin from transgenic rice with different degrees of iron saturation has been studied by differential scanning calorimetry. The maximum temperature, enthalpy change, and activation energy of denaturation were higher when recombinant lactoferrin was more saturated with iron, indicating an increase in the stability of the protein structure. Maximum temperature and activation energy values for apo- and holo-lactoferrins were practically identical to those reported for the same forms of lactoferrin from human milk, which indicates a similar thermal stability. However, the value of enthalpy change for denaturation of the recombinant lactoferrin was 2.5-3-fold lower than that found for the human milk protein. This finding may reflect the influence that the different glycosylation pattern may have in the relationship between lactoferrin domains. Denaturation of recombinant lactoferrin in milk was compared with denaturation in phosphate buffer, and results indicated that the protein was more heat-sensitive when treated in milk than in buffer.
17504087	Jasmonates play a critical role in plant defense against pathogens through regulation of the expression of defense-related genes. To study the role of jasmonic acid (JA) in the rice self-defense mechanism, a proteomic approach was applied. When 3-week-old rice cv. Java 14 was treated with 100 microM JA for 3 days, numerous necrotic brown spots were observed on the leaf blade. Three-week-old rice was treated with JA and proteins from cytosolic and membrane fractions of leaf blade were separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. A total of 305 proteins were detected in both cytosolic and membrane fractions. When rice plant was treated with 100 microM JA for 2 days, 12 proteins were up-regulated and 2 proteins were down-regulated. Out of them, 8 proteins were changed in dose dependence manner, while 4 proteins were changed in a time course manner. Among them, pathogenesis-related protein 5 (PR5) and probenazole inducible protein 1 (PBZ1) were significantly induced by 100 microM JA for 2 days. These results suggest that PR5 and PBZ1 are important proteins expressed down-stream of JA signals in rice cv. Java 14.
17504589	Out-of-hours centres provide telephone support to patients with medical problems. In most of these centres specially-trained nurses handle incoming telephone calls. They assess patients' needs, the degree of urgency, and determine the level of care required. Assessment of the medical problem and the quality of 'care-by-phone' depend on the medical and communication skills of the call handlers. To develop a valid, reliable, and practical rating scale to evaluate the communication skills of call handlers working at an out-of-hours centre and to improve quality of communication. Qualitative study with focus groups followed by validation of the rating scale and measurement of reliability (internal consistency). Out-of-hours centres in the Netherlands. A focus group developed the rating scale. Experts with experience in training and evaluating communication skills of medical students and GPs commented on the scale to ensure content validity. The reliability of the rating scale was tested in a pilot in which ten specially-trained assessors scored six telephone calls each. The scale, known as the RICE rating scale, has 17 items divided over four different phases of the telephone consultation: Reason for calling; Information gathering; Conclusion; and Evaluation (RICE). Content validity of the scale was assessed by two experts. Reliability of the scale tested in the pilot was 0.73 (Cronbach's alpha). Establishing a rating scale to assess the communication skills of call handlers which meets common scientific demands, such as content validity and reliability, proved successful. This instrument can be used to give feedback to call handlers.
17505908	Nitrogen is the most widely used fertilizer nutrient, and it is a universally deficient nutrient too, which often severely restricts the growth and yield of crops. To improve N fertilizer management, soil-plant system models can be applied to simulate adequate N supply for both, optimal crop growth and minimal N losses. The likely impact of climate change on the cereal production is of paramount importance in the planning strategies to meet the future growing needs on sustainable grounds. In this scenario models are the effective tools to foresee the probable impacts and for choosing appropriate land use options. The study reported in this thesis, employs field experiments and use of simulation tools to understand the dynamics of soil N balance and relate growth and yield of rice under varying nitrogen inputs. The InfoCrop model was used in this study, which was calibrated with the historic data sets, and subsequently validated with the field experiment conducted at IARI Farm, New Delhi. Simulated results matched well with the observed values in terms of growth and yield of rice and seasonal nitrogen uptake. The components of soil nitrogen balance differed among varying nitrogen level treatments, which was also captured by use of InfoCrop. The model was then taken to climate change impact analysis. The results clearly revealed that when temperature increased, the soil N losses, like denitrification, volatilization, N2O emission increased, whereas grain and biomass yields decreased. The further scope of the study is to validate the study in contrasting agroenvironments.
17506327	Although 109 WRKY genes have been identified in the rice genome, the functions of most are unknown. Here, we show that OsWRKY13 plays a pivotal role in rice disease resistance. Overexpression of OsWRKY13 can enhance rice resistance to bacterial blight and fungal blast, two of the most devastating diseases of rice worldwide, at both the seedling and adult stages, and shows no influence on the fertility. This overexpression was accompanied by the activation of salicylic acid (SA) synthesis-related genes and SA-responsive genes and the suppression of jasmonic acid (JA) synthesis-related genes and JA-responsive genes. OsWRKY13 bound to the promoters of its own and at least three other genes in SA- and JA-dependent signaling pathways. Its DNA-binding activity was influenced by pathogen infection. These results suggest that OsWRKY13, as an activator of the SA-dependent pathway and a suppressor of JA-dependent pathways, mediates rice resistance by directly or indirectly regulating the expression of a subset of genes acting both upstream and downstream of SA and JA. Furthermore, OsWRKY13 will provide a transgenic tool for engineering wider-spectrum and whole-growth-stage resistance rice in breeding programs.
17506330	Azoarcus sp. strain BH72, as an endophyte of grasses, depends on successful host colonization. Type IV pili are essential for mediating the initial interaction with rice roots. In the genome sequence analysis, the pilT gene was identified, which encodes for a putative type IV pilus retraction protein. PilT of Azoarcus sp. BH72 shares high similarity to PilT of the human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 (77% amino acid sequence identity) and contains a predicted nucleotide-binding motif. To gain more insights into the role of the type IV pili in the colonization process of Azoarcus spp., we constructed an insertional mutant of pilT and a deletion mutant of pilA, the major structural component of the pilus structure. The pilT mutant, as the pilin deletion mutant deltapilA, was abolished in twitching motility. Western blot analyses and electron microscopy studies demonstrated an enhanced piliation of the Azoarcus pilT mutant strain compared with the wild type, indicating that, indeed, PilT has a role in pilus retraction. Studies on rice root colonization in gnotobiotic cultures revealed that the establishment of microcolonies on the root surface was strongly reduced in the deltapilA mutant, whereas the surface colonization was reduced by only 50% in the nontwitching pilT mutant. However, endophytic colonization of rice roots was strongly reduced in both mutants. These results demonstrate that the retractile force mediated by PilT is not essential for the bacterial colonization of the plant surface, but that twitching motility is necessary for invasion of and establishment inside the plant. Thus, a novel determinant for endophytic interactions with grasses was identified.
17506331	DNA polymorphism analysis and pathogenicity assays were used to characterize strains of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola collected from rice leaves in West Africa. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), repetitive sequence-based polymerase chain reaction, fluorescent amplified fragment-length polymorphism (FAFLP) analyses were assessed for molecular characterization, while pathogenicity was tested by leaf clipping and leaf infiltration. Dendrograms were generated for the data sets obtained from RFLP analysis and repetitive polymerase chain reaction suggesting that the interrelationships between strains were dependent on the technique used. In all cases, data showed that African strains of X. oryzae pv. oryzae form a group genetically distant from Asian strains. FAFLP analyses separated the X. oryzae strains into three groups with significant bootstrap values. A specific and intriguing feature of African strains of X. oryzae pv. oryzae is a reduction in the number of insertion sequence elements and transcription activator-like (avrBs3/pthA) effector genes, based on the molecular markers employed in the study. In addition, pathogenicity assays conducted with African strains of X. oryzae pv. oryzae on a series of nearly isogenic lines (NILs) identified three new races. Finally, leaf infiltration assays revealed the capacity of African strains of X. oryzae pv. oryzae to induce a nonhost hypersensitive response in Nicotiana benthamiana, in contrast with Asian X. oryzae pv. oryzae and X. oryzae pv. oryzicola strains. Our results reveal substantial differences between genomic characteristics of Asian and African strains of X. oryzae pv. oryzae.
17506334	Asexual spores of the rice blast fungus germinate to produce a specialized and melanized infection structure, the appressorium, which is pivotal to successful plant penetration. To investigate whether Magnaporthe grisea counteracts the toxic burst of H2O2 localized beneath the site of attempted invasion, we examined the temporal expression of five candidate antioxidant genes. Of these, the putatively secreted large subunit catalase CATB gene was 600-fold up-regulated in vivo, coincident with penetration, and moderately up-regulated in vitro, in response to exogenous H2O2. Targeted gene replacement of CATB led to compromised pathogen fitness; the catB mutant displayed paler pigmentation and accelerated hyphal growth but lower biomass, poorer sporulation, fragile conidia and appressoria, and impaired melanization. The catB mutant was severely less pathogenic than Guy 11 on barley and rice, and its infectivity was further reduced on exposure to H2O2. The wild-type phenotype was restored by the reintroduction of CATB into the catB mutant We found no evidence to support a role for CATB in detoxification of the host-derived H2O2 at the site of penetration. Instead, we demonstrated that CATB plays a part in strengthening the fungal wall, a role of particular importance during forceful entry into the host.
17507086	Tocochromanols encompass a group of compounds with vitamin E activity essential for human nutrition. Structurally, natural vitamin E includes eight chemically distinct molecules: alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-tocopherol; and alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-tocotrienol. Symptoms caused by alpha-tocopherol deficiency can be alleviated by tocotrienols. Thus, tocotrienols may be viewed as being members of the natural vitamin E family not only structurally but also functionally. Palm oil and rice bran oil represent two major nutritional sources of natural tocotrienol. Taken orally, tocotrienols are bioavailable to all vital organs. The tocotrienol forms of natural vitamin E possesses powerful hypocholesterolemic, anti-cancer and neuroprotective properties that are often not exhibited by tocopherols. Oral tocotrienol protects against stroke-associated brain damage in vivo. Disappointments with outcomes-based clinical studies testing the efficacy of alpha-tocopherol need to be handled with caution and prudence recognizing the untapped opportunities offered by the other forms of natural vitamin E. Although tocotrienols represent half of the natural vitamin E family, work on tocotrienols account for roughly 1% of the total literature on vitamin E. The current state of knowledge warrants strategic investment into investigating the lesser known forms of vitamin E.
17507669	The indica rice variety Kasalath carries Pi36, a gene that determines resistance to Chinese isolates of rice blast and that has been located to a 17-kb interval on chromosome 8. The genomic sequence of the reference japonica variety Nipponbare was used for an in silico prediction of the resistance (R) gene content of the interval and hence for the identification of candidate gene(s) for Pi36. Three such sequences, which all had both a nucleotide-binding site and a leucine-rich repeat motif, were present. The three candidate genes were amplified from the genomic DNA of a number of varieties by long-range PCR, and the resulting amplicons were inserted into pCAMBIA1300 and/or pYLTAC27 vectors to determine sequence polymorphisms correlated to the resistance phenotype and to perform transgenic complementation tests. Constructs containing each candidate gene were transformed into the blast-susceptible variety Q1063, which allowed the identification of Pi36-3 as the functional gene, with the other two candidates being probable pseudogenes. The Pi36-encoded protein is composed of 1056 amino acids, with a single substitution event (Asp to Ser) at residue 590 associated with the resistant phenotype. Pi36 is a single-copy gene in rice and is more closely related to the barley powdery mildew resistance genes Mla1 and Mla6 than to the rice blast R genes Pita, Pib, Pi9, and Piz-t. An RT-PCR analysis showed that Pi36 is constitutively expressed in Kasalath.
17507777	Transposon display (TD) is a powerful technique to identify the integration site of transposons in gene tagging as a functional genomic tool for elucidating gene function. Although active endogenous DNA transposons have been used extensively for gene tagging in maize, only two active endogenous DNA transposons in rice have been identified, the 0.43-kb element mPing of the MITE family and the 0.6-kb nDart element of the hAT family. The nDart transposition was shown to be induced by crossing with a line containing its autonomous element aDart and stabilized by segregating aDart under natural growth conditions, while mPing-related elements were shown to transpose in cultured cells, plants regenerated from an anther culture, and gamma-ray-irradiated plants. No somaclonal variation should occur in nDart-promoted gene tagging because no tissue culture was involved in nDart activation. As an initial step to develop an effective tagging system using nDart in rice, we tried to visualize GC-rich nDart-related elements comprising 18 nDart-related sequences of 0.6-kb and 63 nDart-related elements longer than 2 kb in Nipponbare by TD. Comparing the observed bands in TD with the anticipated virtual bands of the nDart-related elements based upon the available rice genome sequence, we have improved our TD protocol by optimizing the PCR amplification conditions and are able to visualize approximately 87% of the anticipated bands produced from the nDart-related elements. To compare the visualization efficiency of these nDart-related elements with that of 50 mPing elements and a unique Ping sequence in Nipponbare, we also tried to visualize the mPing-related elements; all mPing-related elements are easily visualized. Based on these results, we discuss the parameters affecting the visualization efficiencies of these rice DNA transposons. We also discuss the utilization of nDart elements in gene tagging for functional genomics in rice.
17509649	The objectives of the present study were to quantify (1) the emission factors of a variety of dioxin emission sources; (2) the overall dioxin emission inventory in Taiwan as well as in a major metropolitan (KC area); and (3) the contribution of power plants to the overall PCDD/F emission. To achieve these goals, a total of 95 flue gas samples were collected and analyzed for 17 PCDD/Fs from 20 sources to develop emission factors. The emission factor of PCDD/Fs from coal-fired power plants (0.62 microgI-TEQton(-1)) obtained in this study is considerably higher than the values reported from different countries including UK, USA, and Spain by a factor of 2-265. It means that the air pollution control devices in certain power plants need to be more efficient. The emission data showed that there is a total annual release to air of 6.1 and 95gI-TEQ from major sources in the KC area and Taiwan, respectively. The dominant sources of PCDD/Fs in the KC area are the coal-fired power plants, secondary aluminum smelting, electric arc furnaces, and open burning of rice straw, which contributed for 56%, 17%, 13%, and 3.3% to the total, respectively. However, in Taiwan, the dominant sources of PCDD/Fs are the iron ore sintering, coal-fired power plants, electric arc furnaces, and open burning of rice straw, which contributed for 32%, 28%, 23%, and 8.1% to the total, respectively. The results of this study showed that coal-fired power plants are very significant sources of PCDD/Fs and also provide an important database to assist the decision makers for formulating policies to alleviate dioxin concerns.
17509665	The objective of this study was to detect the selenium level in the environment and the population of Zhoukoudian area, Beijing, and to discuss the influence of various factors on serum selenium level. The soil, drinking water, and foodstuff samples and venous blood samples of 401 individuals were obtained to determine the selenium level by gas chromatograph equipped with a (63)Ni electron capture detector (ECD). The selenium level was 0.210+/-0.013 microg/g in soil, 0.017 microg/L+/-0.002 in drinking water, 0.034+/-0.002 microg/g in rice, and 0.034+/-0.012 microg/g in wheat flour. This index showed that the Zhoukoudian area of Beijing was a moderate or marginal level selenium ecological landscape. The mean serum selenium level of the population was 75.01+/-28.35 microg/L, ranging between 35.2 and 160.4 microg/L. A total of 279 (69.6%) individuals exhibited serum selenium level below 80 microg/L, which is the lowest threshold for the activity of glutathione peroxidases (GPx) in vivo. A total of 35 (8.5%) individuals exhibited serum selenium level below 45 microg/L. It is widely recommended that below this value (45 microg/L) there is an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that serum selenium level was positively associated with body mass index (beta=0.137; P=0.011), serum total cholesterol TC (beta=0.785; P=0.000), however, negatively associated with systolic blood pressure (beta=-0.172; P=0.023), serum triglyceride (beta=-0.170; P=0.007), high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (beta=-0.121; P=0.027), and low high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (beta=-0.568; P=0.027).
17509758	Investigations were conducted in batch mode to study the adsorption behaviour of m-cresol on a porous carbon prepared from rice husk (RHAC) by varying the parameters such as agitation time, m-cresol concentration (50-300 mg/l), pH (2.5-10) and temperature (293-323 K). Studies showed that the adsorption decreased with increase in pH and temperature. The isotherm data were fitted to Langmuir, Freundlich, and Dubinin-Radushkevic (D-R) models. The kinetic models such as pseudo-first-order, pseudo-second-order and intraparticle diffusion models were selected to understand the reaction pathways and mechanism of adsorption process. The thermodynamic equilibrium coefficients obtained at different temperatures were used to evaluate the thermodynamic constants DeltaG degrees, DeltaH degrees and DeltaS degrees. The sorption process was found to be exothermic in nature (DeltaH degrees : -23.46 to -25.40 kJ/mol) with a decrease in entropy (DeltaS degrees: -19.44 to -35.87 J/(mol K)). The negative value of Gibbs free energy, DeltaG degrees indicates that the adsorption occurs via a spontaneous process. The decrease in the value of -DeltaG degrees from 17.70 to 13.54 kJ/mol with increase in pH and temperature indicates that the adsorption of m-cresol onto activated carbon is less favourable at higher temperature and pH range. The influence of mesopore and a possible mechanism of adsorption is also suggested.
17511431	Unimolecular dissociation of a neopentyl radical to isobutene and methyl radical is competitive with the neopentyl association with O2 ((3)Sigma(g)-) in thermal oxidative systems. Furthermore, both isobutene and the OH radical are important primary products from the reactions of neopentyl with O2. Consequently, the reactions of O2 with the 2-hydroxy-1,1-dimethylethyl and 2-hydroxy-2-methylpropyl radicals resulting from the OH addition to isobutene are important to understanding the oxidation of neopentane and other branched hydrocarbons. Reactions that correspond to the association of radical adducts with O2((3)Sigma(g)-) involve chemically activated peroxy intermediates, which can isomerize and react to form one of several products before stabilization. The above reaction systems were analyzed with ab initio and density functional calculations to evaluate the thermochemistry, reaction paths, and kinetics that are important in neopentyl radical oxidation. The stationary points of potential energy surfaces were analyzed based on the enthalpies calculated at the CBS-Q level. The entropies, S(degrees)298, and heat capacities, C(p)(T), (0 <or= T/K <or= 1500), from vibration, translation, and external rotation contributions were calculated using statistical mechanics based on the vibrational frequencies and structures obtained from the density functional study. The hindered internal rotor contributions to S(degrees)298 and C(p)(T) were calculated by solving the Schrdinger equation with free rotor wave functions, and the partition coefficients were treated by direct integration over energy levels of the internal rotation potentials. Enthalpies of formation (DeltaH(f)(degrees)298) were determined using isodesmic reaction analysis. The DeltaH(f)(degrees)298 values of (CH3)2C*CH(2)OH, (CH3)2C(OO*)CH(2)OH, (CH3)2C(OH)C*H2, and (CH3)2C(OH)CH(2)OO* radicals were determined to be -23.3, -62.2, -24.2, and -61.8 kcal mol(-1), respectively. Elementary rate constants were calculated from canonical transition state theory, and pressure-dependent rate constants for multichannel reaction systems were calculated as functions of pressure and temperature using multifrequency quantum Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (QRRK) analysis for k(E) and a master equation for pressure falloff. Kinetic parameters for intermediate and product formation channels of the above reaction systems are presented as functions of temperature and pressure.
17512025	Progesterone is a mammalian gonadal hormone. In the current study, we identified and quantified progesterone in a range of higher plants by using GC-MS and examined its effects on the vegetative growth of plants. The growth of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings was promoted by progesterone at low concentrations but suppressed at higher concentrations under both light and dark growth conditions. The growth of the gibberellin-deficient mutant lh of pea (Pisum sativum) was also promoted by progesterone. An earlier study demonstrated that progesterone binds to MEMBRANE STEROID BINDING PROTEIN 1 (MSBP1) of Arabidopsis. In this work, we cloned the homologous genes of Arabidopsis, MSBP2 and STEROID BINDING PROTEIN (SBP), as well as of rice (Oryza sativa), OsMSBP1, OsMSBP2 and OsSBP and examined their expression in plant tissues. All of these genes, except OsMSBP1, were expressed abundantly in plant tissues. The roles of progesterone in plant growth were also discussed.
17512026	The concept and methodology of using dynamic labeling for the MFA of plant metabolic pathways are described, based on a case study to develop a method for the MFA of the tryptophan biosynthetic pathway in cultured rice cells. Dynamic labeling traces the change in the labeling level of a metabolite in a metabolic pathway after the application of a stable isotope-labeled compound. In this study, [1-(13)C] l-serine was fed as a labeling precursor and the labeling level of Trp was determined by using the LC-MS/MS. The value of metabolic flux is determined by fitting a model describing the labeling dynamics of the pathway to the observed labeling data. The biosynthetic flux of Trp in rice suspension cultured cell was determined to be 6.0+/-1.1 nmol (gFWh)(-1). It is also demonstrated that an approximately sixfold increase in the biosynthetic flux of Trp in transgenic rice cells expressing the feedback-insensitive version of anthranilate synthase alpha-subunit gene (OASA1D) resulted in a 45-fold increase in the level of Trp. In this article, the basic workflow for the experiment is introduced and the details of the actual experimental procedures are explained. Future perspectives are also discussed by referring recent advances in the dynamic labeling approach.
17512031	Inoculation of plants with microorganisms may reduce the toxicity of heavy metals to plants in contaminated soils. In this study, we have shown that the plant growth promoting bacteria Methylobacterium oryzae strain CBMB20 and Burkholderia sp. strain CBMB40 from rice reduce the toxicity of Ni and Cd in tomato and promote plant growth under gnotobiotic and pot culture experiments. The bacterial strains bound considerable amounts of Ni(II) and Cd(II) in their growing and resting cells and showed growth in the presence of NiCl2 and CdCl2. In gnotobiotic assay, inoculation with the bacterial strains reduced the ethylene emission and increased the tolerance index of the seedlings against different concentrations of NiCl2/CdCl2. In pot experiments carried out with non-polluted, Ni and Cd supplemented Wonjo-Mix bed soil, the results clearly demonstrated reduction in the accumulations of Ni(II) and Cd(II) in roots and shoots, with significant increase in the plant growth attributes with bacterial inoculations compared to untreated control. Strain CBMB20 performed better than CBMB40 in reducing the heavy metal accumulations in plants. Our results suggest conclusively, that protection against the heavy metals toxicity is rendered by these bacterial strains by reducing their uptake and further translocation to shoots in plants and promote the plant growth by other PGP characteristics.
17512485	Muscle injuries are one of the most common traumas occurring in sports. Despite their clinical importance, there are only a few clinical studies on the treatment of muscle injuries. Lack of clinical studies is most probably attributable to the fact that there is not only a high heterogeneity in the severity of injuries, but also the injuries take place in different muscles, making it very demanding to carry out clinical trials. Accordingly, the current treatment principles of muscle injuries have either been derived from experimental studies or been tested empirically only. Clinically, first aid for muscle injuries follows the RICE (Rest, Ice, Compression and Elevation) principle. The objective of RICE is to stop the injury-induced bleeding into the muscle tissue and thereby minimise the extent of the injury. Clinical examination should be carried out immediately after the injury and 5-7 days after the initial trauma, at which point the severity of the injury can be assessed more reliably. At that time, a more detailed characterisation of the injury can be made using imaging diagnostic modalities (ultrasound or MRI) if desired. The treatment of injured skeletal muscle should be carried out by immediate immobilisation of the injured muscle (clinically, relative immobility/avoidance of muscle contractions). However, the duration of immobilisation should be limited to a period sufficient to produce a scar of sufficient strength to bear the forces induced by remobilisation without re-rupture and the return to activity (mobilisation) should then be started gradually within the limits of pain. Early return to activity is needed to optimise the regeneration of healing muscle and recovery of the flexibility and strength of the injured skeletal muscle to pre-injury levels. The rehabilitation programme should be built around progressive agility and trunk stabilisation exercises, as these exercises seem to yield better outcome for injured skeletal muscle than programmes based exclusively on stretching and strengthening of the injured muscle.
17512594	Alkylphenol polyethoxylates (APEO), alkylphenols combined with ethylene oxide, are a class of nonionic surfactants. APEO have been widely used for industrial, agricultural and household applications, and are biodegraded to more persistent and estrogen-active products, namely, nonylphenol (NP), octylphenol (OP), butylphenol (BP), nonylphenol monoethoxylate (NP(1)EO) and nonylphenol diethoxylate (NP(2)EO). This study determined NP levels in commonly consumed foodstuffs to assess daily intake of NP in a Taiwanese population. This study analyzes 318 of samples from 25 types of commonly consumed foodstuffs in northern, central, southern and eastern regions of Taiwan and estimates daily intake of NP in 466 subjects. Moreover, daily NP intake for 3915 additional subjects was estimated by analyzing data from the Nutrition and health survey in Taiwan (NAHSIT). The foodstuff samples were analyzed for five alkylphenol compounds simultaneously by HPLC with fluorescence detection. Additionally, the average compositions of typical foods consumed in Taiwan were investigated. In combination with alkylphenol levels in these foodstuffs, daily intake of NP in Taiwanese was calculated. The average daily intake of NP for the 466 subjects was 28.04+/-25.32 microg/day. Estimated daily intake of NP, based on NP levels in this study as well as the NAHSIT data, was 31.40 microg/day. Rice was the most commonly consumed source of NP, the proportion was 21.46% among daily intake of NP and the following were aquatic products and livestock, which percentage were 17.97% and 17.38%, respectively. Additionally, oysters had the highest NP levels (235.8+/-90.7 ng/g) in four regions of Taiwan, followed by salmon (123.8+/-116.2 ng/g). This study suggested that the average daily NP intake in Taiwan is 4-fold and 8.5-fold higher than daily intake in Germany and New Zealand, respectively and rice was the major source of NP intake.
17512658	This letter explains the appropriate way to calculate the parameters in pseudo first and second order kinetics, Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm.
17512731	Ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI; EC 1.1.1.86) catalyzes the second common step in branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis. The catalyzed process consists of two stages, the first of which is an alkyl migration from one carbon atom to its neighbouring atom. The likely transition state is a cyclopropane derivative, thus a series of new cyclopropane derivatives, such as 1-cyano-N-substituted-cyclopropanecarboxamide, were designed and synthesized. Their structures were verified by (1)H NMR, FTIR spectrum, MS and elemental analysis. The K(i) values of active compounds 2, 4b against rice KARI were 95.30+/-13.71, 207.9+/-21.99 microM, respectively. The X-ray crystal structure of compound 4a was also determined. Auto-Dock was used to predict the binding mode of 4a. This was done by analyzing the interaction of the compounds 4a with the active sites of spinach KARI. This result was in accord with the result analyzed by the frontier molecular orbital theory.
17512990	Modification of the histone proteins that form the core around which chromosomal DNA is looped has profound epigenetic effects on the accessibility of the associated DNA for transcription, replication and repair. The SET domain is now recognized as generally having methyltransferase activity targeted to specific lysine residues of histone H3 or H4. There is considerable sequence conservation within the SET domain and within its flanking regions. Previous reviews have shown that SET proteins from Arabidopsis and maize fall into five classes according to their sequence and domain architectures. These classes generally reflect specificity for a particular substrate. SET proteins from rice were found to fall into similar groupings, strengthening the merit of the approach taken. Two additional classes, VI and VII, were established that include proteins with truncated/interrupted SET domains. Diverse mechanisms are involved in shaping the function and regulation of SET proteins. These include protein-protein interactions through both intra- and inter-molecular associations that are important in plant developmental processes, such as flowering time control and embryogenesis. Alternative splicing that can result in the generation of two to several different transcript isoforms is now known to be widespread. An exciting and tantalizing question is whether, or how, this alternative splicing affects gene function. For example, it is conceivable that one isoform may debilitate methyltransferase function whereas the other may enhance it, providing an opportunity for differential regulation. The review concludes with the speculation that modulation of SET protein function is mediated by antisense or sense-antisense RNA.
17513504	Loss of green color in leaves results from chlorophyll (Chl) degradation in chloroplasts, but little is known about how Chl catabolism is regulated throughout leaf development. Using the staygreen (sgr) mutant in rice (Oryza sativa), which maintains greenness during leaf senescence, we identified Sgr, a senescence-associated gene encoding a novel chloroplast protein. Transgenic rice overexpressing Sgr produces yellowish-brown leaves, and Arabidopsis thaliana pheophorbide a oxygenase-impaired mutants exhibiting a stay-green phenotype during dark-induced senescence have reduced expression of Sgr homologs, indicating that Sgr regulates Chl degradation at the transcriptional level. We show that the leaf stay-greenness of the sgr mutant is associated with a failure in the destabilization of the light-harvesting chlorophyll binding protein (LHCP) complexes of the thylakoid membranes, which is a prerequisite event for the degradation of Chls and LHCPs during senescence. Transient overexpression of Sgr in Nicotiana benthamiana and an in vivo pull-down assay show that Sgr interacts with LHCPII, indicating that the Sgr-LHCPII complexes are formed in the thylakoid membranes. Thus, we propose that in senescing leaves, Sgr regulates Chl degradation by inducing LHCPII disassembly through direct interaction, leading to the degradation of Chls and Chl-free LHCPII by catabolic enzymes and proteases, respectively.
17513697	RNA silencing plays a key role in antiviral defense as well as in developmental processes in plants and insects. Negative strand RNA viruses such as the plant virus Rice hoja blanca tenuivirus (RHBV) replicate in plants and in their insect transmission vector. Like most plant-infecting viruses, RHBV encodes an RNA silencing suppressor, the NS3 protein, and here it is demonstrated that this protein is capable of suppressing RNA silencing in both plants and insect cells. Biochemical analyses showed that NS3 efficiently binds siRNA as well as miRNA molecules. Binding of NS3 is greatly influenced by the size of small RNA molecules, as 21 nucleotide (nt) siRNA molecules are bound > 100 times more efficiently than 26 nt species. Competition assays suggest that the activity of NS3 is based on binding to siRNAs prior to strand separation during the assembly of the RNA-induced silencing complex. In addition, NS3 has a high affinity for miRNA/miRNA* duplexes, indicating that its activity might also interfere with miRNA-regulated gene expression in both insects and plants.
17515106	Pesictide residues in 343 samples of domestic rice and 32 samples of imported rice purchased on the Tokyo market from April 1995 to March 2005 were investigated. Residues of eleven kinds of pesticides (including organophosphorus, organochlorine, carbamate, pyrethroid and organonitrogen pesticides and bromide) were detected at levels between trace and 1 ppm in 47 domestic rice samples. DDVP and bromide residues were detected at levels between 0.01 ppm and 5 ppm in 18 imported rice samples. For rice samples that were found to containing pesticides, the amounts of pesticide intake were calculated according to the daily intake of rice, and they were compared with the ADI values. Since residual pesticide levels were 17/10,000-2/5 of ADI, all the rice samples were considered to be safe for human consumption.
17516027	Using a yeast one-hybrid method, a transcription factor, OsAP25, which interacts specifically with a GCC box was isolated from rice. The OsAP25 protein contained a conserved ethylene-responsive element binding factor (ERF) domain which shared identity with other reported ERF domains. Phylogenetic analysis showed that OsAP25 could be categorized into class III ERF of the previously characterized ERF proteins on an evolutionary relationship. The semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that OsAP25 gene was constitutively expressed in leaves, roots, growing points, flower, bolting stage and grain filling stage. In addition, OsAP25 gene was induced by NaCl, cold, drought, abscisic acid and exogenous ethylene.
17516071	We have developed an efficient rice transformation system that uses only rice genome-derived components. The transgenic 'Koshihikari' rice, low-glutelin mutant a123, is capable of accumulating large amounts of bioactive peptides in the endosperm. Agrobacterium-mediated transformation using the mutated-acetolactate synthase (mALS) gene expressed under the control of the callus-specific promoter (CSP) as a selectable marker was used to introduce GFP and an anti-hypertensive hexapeptide into 'Koshihikari' a123. The CSP:mALS gene cassette confers pyrimidinyl carboxy herbicide resistance to transgenic rice callus, but is not expressed in regenerated plants. Transformation efficiency of transgenic rice line a123 was improved from about 10% to about 30% by modifying callus induction, callus selection and regeneration media conventionally used for rice tissue culture.
17516134	NADP-malic enzyme (NADP-ME, EC 1.1.1.40) functions in many different pathways in plant and may be involved in plant defense such as wound and UV-B radiation. Here, expression of the gene encoding cytosolic NADP-ME (cytoNADP-ME, GenBank Accession No. AY444338) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings was induced by salt stress (NaCl). NADP-ME activities in leaves and roots of rice also increased in response to NaCl. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants over-expressing rice cytoNADP-ME had a greater salt tolerance at the seedling stage than wild-type plants in MS medium-supplemented with different levels of NaCl. Cytosolic NADPH/NADP(+) concentration ratio of transgenic plants was higher than those of wild-type plants. These results suggest that rice cytoNADP-ME confers salt tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings.
17516945	The aim of this study was to evaluate the performances and the flesh quality of Pagellus bogaraveo fed with diets containing rice protein concentrate [RPC, 70% crude protein (CP) and 10% ether extract]. Three isoproteic and isoenergetic (CP 47%, 22 MJ/kg DM) diets were formulated with an increasing level of RPC: 0%, 20% and 35%. The fish (mean weight 75 g) from the Messina Straits were randomly distributed in 12 tanks (3 diets x 4 replications, 10 fish/tank). The daily ratio (1.5% of the fish biomass) was updated every 15 days. Biomass gain showed an opposite trend to the RPC diet inclusion. No differences appeared in the somatic indexes. Differences appeared between fatty acid profiles of the dorsal muscle. Fatty acid of series n-6 increased and fatty acid of series n-3 decreased in fillets of fish fed with increasing levels of RPC. The inclusion of RPC in the diets, as a partial replacement of fish meal (20%), is possible without affecting the growth performance and fillet quality.
17517095	Post-prandial worsening of symptoms as well as adverse reactions to one or more foods are common in the patients with functional gastrointestinal diseases, such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and functional dyspepsia (FD). However, the role played by true food allergy in the pathogenesis of these diseases is still controversial and there are no well-established tests to identify food allergy in this condition. To investigate serum food antigen-specific IgG, IgE antibody and total IgE antibody titres in controls and patients with IBS and FD, and to correlate symptoms with the food antigen-specific IgG titres in IBS and FD patients. Thirty-seven IBS patients, 28 FD patients and 20 healthy controls participated in this study. Serum IgG and IgE antibody titres to 14 common foods including beef, chicken, codfish, corn, crab, eggs, mushroom, milk, pork, rice, shrimp, soybean, tomatoes and wheat were analysed by ELISA. Serum total IgE titres were also measured. Last, symptomatology was assessed in the study. Results IBS patients had significantly higher titres of IgG antibody to crab (P=0.000), egg (P=0.000), shrimp (P=0.000), soybean (P=0.017) and wheat (P=0.004) than controls. FD patients had significantly higher titres of IgG antibody to egg (P=0.000) and soybean (P=0.017) than controls. The percentage of individuals with detectable positive food antigen-specific IgE antibodies of the three groups did not show any significant differences (P=0.971). There were no significant differences between IBS patients, FD patients and controls in the serum total IgE antibody titres (P=0.978). Lastly, no significant correlation was seen between symptom severity and serum food antigen-specific IgG antibody titres both in IBS and FD patients. Serum IgG antibody titres to some common foods increased in IBS and FD patients compared to controls. But there is no significant correlation between symptom severity and elevated serum food antigen-specific IgG antibodies in these patients.
17517133	This study aimed to analyze the efficiency of three new microsatellite multiplex panels, which were designed to evaluate a total of 16 loci of the rice genome, based on single PCR reactions of each panel. A sample of 548 accessions of traditional upland rice landraces collected in Brazil in the last 25 years was genotyped, a database of allelic frequencies was established, estimates of genetic parameters were performed and analysis of genetic structure of the collection was developed. The three panels yielded a combined matching probability of 6.4 x 10-21, polymorphism information content (PIC) of 0.637, and a combined power of exclusion greater than 99.99%. A few samples presented a genetic background of indica rice. The 16 SSR loci produced a total of 229 alleles. Gene diversity values averaged 0.667, and PIC values averaged 0.637. Genetic structure analysis of the collection using a Bayesian approach detected three possible major clusters, with an overall FST value of 0.177. Important inputs on the knowledge about upland rice germplasm differentiations which happened in Brazil in the last few centuries were also achieved and are discussed. The three multiplex panels described here represent a powerful tool for rice genetic analysis, offering a rapid and efficient option for rice germplasm characterization. The data gathered demonstrates the feasibility of genotyping extensive germplasm collections using panels of multiplexed microsatellite markers. It contributes to the advancement of research on large scale characterization and management of germplasm banks, as well as identification, protection and assessments of genetic relationship of rice germplasm.
17517758	Probenazole (PBZ) is the active ingredient of Oryzemate, an agrochemical which is used for the protection of rice plants from Magnaporthe grisea (blast fungus). While PBZ was reported to function upstream of salicylic acid (SA) in Arabidopsis, little is known about the mechanism of PBZ-induced resistance in rice. The role of SA in blast fungus resistance is also unclear. The recommended application period for Oryzemate is just before the Japanese rainy season, at which time rice plants in the field have reached the 8-leaf stage with adult traits. Thus, the involvement of SA in PBZ-induced resistance was studied in compatible and incompatible blast fungus-rice interactions at two developmentally different leaf morphology stages. Pre-treatment of inoculated fourth leaves of young wild-type rice plants at the 4-leaf stage with PBZ did not influence the development of whitish expanding lesions (ELs) in the susceptible interaction without the accumulation of SA and pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins. However, PBZ pre-treatment increased accumulation of SA and PR proteins in the eighth leaves of adult plants at the 8-leaf stage, resulting in the formation of hypersensitive reaction (HR) lesions (HRLs). Exogenous SA induced resistance in adult but not young plants. SA concentrations in blast fungus-inoculated young leaves were essentially the same in compatible and incompatible interactions, suggesting that PBZ-induced resistance in rice is age-dependently regulated via SA accumulation.
17518768	Simple sequence repeats (SSRs) or microsatellites are an important class of molecular markers for genome analysis and plant breeding applications. In this paper, the SSR distributions within ESTs from the legumes soybean (Glycine max, representing 135.86 Mb), medicago (Medicago truncatula, 121.1 Mb) and lotus (Lotus japonicus, 45.4 Mb) have been studied relative to the distributions in cereals such as sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, 98.9 Mb), rice (Oryza sativa, 143.9 Mb) and maize (Zea mays, 183.7 Mb). The relative abundance, density, composition and putative annotations of di-, tri-, tetra- and penta-nucleotide repeats have been compared and SSR containing ESTs (SSR-ESTs) have been clustered to give a non-redundant set of EST-SSRs, available in a database. Further, a subset of such candidate EST-SSRs from sorghum have been tested for their ability to detect polymorphism between Striga-susceptible, stay-green drought tolerant mapping population parent 'E 36-1' and its Striga-resistant, non-stay-green counterpart 'N13'. Primer sets for 64% of the EST-SSRs tested produced a clear and specific PCR product band and 34% of these detected scorable polymorphism between the N13 and E 36-1 parental lines. Over half of these markers have been genotyped on 94 RILs from the (N13 x E 36-1)-based mapping population, with 42 markers mapping onto the ten sorghum linkage groups. This establishes the value of this database as a resource of molecular markers for practical applications in cereal and legume genetics and breeding. The primer pairs for non-redundant EST-SSRs have been designed and are freely available through the database (http://intranet.icrisat.org/gt1/ssr/ssrdatabase.html).
17520342	A rice gene, OsBISERK1, encoding a protein belonging to SOMATIC EMBRYOGENESIS RECEPTOR KINASE (SERK) type of leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinases (LRR-RLKs) was identified. The OsBISERK1 encodes a 624 aa protein with high level of identity to known plant SERKs. OsBISERK1 contains a hydrophobic signal peptide, a leucine zipper, and five leucine-rich repeat motifs in the extracellular domain; the cytoplasmic region carries a proline-rich region and a single transmembrane domain, as well as a conserved intracellular serine/threonine protein kinase domain. OsBISERK1 has a low level of basal expression in leaf tissue. However, expression of OsBISERK1 was induced by treatment with benzothiadiazole (BTH), which is capable of inducing disease resistance in rice, and also up-regulated after inoculation with Magnaporthe grisea in BTH-treated rice seedlings and during incompatible interaction between a blast-resistant rice genotype and M. grisea. The results suggest that OsBISERK1 may be involved in disease resistance responses in rice.
17521036	Sea urchin roe, a Japanese and Korean delicacy served with sushi, has not been previously described as a food allergen. To determine the specific cause of anaphylaxis that occurred while eating a sushi meal consisting of crackling shrimp, California roll with snow crab and sea urchin roe (uni), cooked eel (unagi) with fish sauce, rice, and saki mayo. Allergy percutaneous skin testing, serum IgE testing via the Pharmacia ImmunoCAP system, and fresh eel and sea urchin roe food testing were performed. Allergy evaluation included negative skin testing to shrimp, lobster, crab, oyster, clam, scallop, tuna, salmon, and cod. Pharmacia ImmunoCAP testing did not detect any specific IgE to oyster, crab, shrimp, blue mussel, lobster, clam, scallop, or eel (allergen specific IgE <0.35 KU/L). Fresh sea urchin roe skin prick testing yielded a 16-mm wheal and a 25-mm flare (histamine positive control: 7-mm wheal and 10-mm flare). Results of fresh eel skin prick testing were similar to those of the saline negative control. This case represents the first reported episode of sea urchin roe anaphylaxis. Consideration and investigation of novel food allergens may decipher causes of unexplained, food-related anaphylaxis.
17521411	Arabidopsis carries three receptor genes for the phytohormone gibberellin (GA), AtGID1a, AtGID1b and AtGID1c. Expression of each gene in the rice gid1-1 mutant for GA receptors causes reversion of its severely dwarfed phenotype and GA insensitivity to a normal level, even though each loss-of-function mutant shows no clear phenotype in Arabidopsis (Nakajima et al., 2006). In this paper, we report the functional redundancy and specificity of each AtGID1 by analyzing the multiple mutants for loss of function. Seeds of the double knockout mutants atgid1a atgid1b, atgid1a atgid1c and atgid1b atgid1c germinated normally. The double knockout mutant atgid1a atgid1c showed a dwarf phenotype, while other double mutants were of normal height compared to the wild-type. The stamens of the double knockout mutant atgid1a atgid1b were significantly shorter than those of the wild-type, and this leads to low fertility. A severe disarrangement of the pattern on its seed surface was also observed. The triple knockout mutant atgid1a atgid1b atgid1c did not germinate voluntarily, and only started to grow when the seed coat was peeled off after soaking. Seedlings of the triple knockout mutants were severe dwarfs, only a few millimeters high after growing for 1 month. Moreover, the triple knockout seedlings completely lost their ability to respond to exogenously applied GA. These results show that all AtGID1s function as GA receptors in Arabidopsis, but have specific role(s) for growth and development.
17521445	The pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) is a degenerate 35 amino acid motif that occurs in multiple tandem copies in members of a recently recognized eukaryotic gene family. Most analyzed eukaryotic genomes contain only a small number of PPR genes, but in plants the family is greatly expanded. The factors that underlie the expansion of this gene family in plants are not as yet understood. We show that the location of PPR genes is highly variable in comparisons between orthologous, closely related, and otherwise co-linear chromosomal regions of the Brassica rapa or radish and Arabidopsis thaliana. This observation also pertains to paralogous duplicated segments of the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica rapa. In addition, we show that PPR genes that seem closely linearly aligned in these comparisons are not generally found to be closely related to one another at the nucleotide and amino acid sequence level. We observe a relatively high level of non-synonomous vs synonomous changes among a group tandemly repeated radish PPR genes, suggesting that these, and possibly other PPR genes, are subject to diversifying selection. We also show that a duplicated region of the Arabidopsis genome possesses a relatively high density of PPR genes showing high similarity to restorers of fertility of cytoplasmic male sterile (CMS) systems of petunia, radish and rice. The PPR genes in these regions, together with the restorer genes, are more highly similar to one another, in sequence as well as in structure, than to other PPR genes, even within the same sub-family. Our results suggest are consistent with a model in which at least some PPR genes undergo a "birth and death" process that involves transposition to unrelated chromosomal sites. PPR genes hold certain features in common with disease resistance genes (R genes), and their "nomadic" character suggests that their evolutionary expansion in plants may have involved novel molecular processes and selective pressures.
17521606	SLR1 (SLENDER RICE 1) was thought to be the sole DELLA protein in rice considering the constitutive GA response phenotype of slr1 mutants. There were two other SLR1 homologous SLRL1 and SLRL2 (SLR1 like 1 and 2) which did not have DELLA domain but still shared high level similarity to the C-terminal region of SLR1 found after searching the whole rice genome. SLRL2 specially expressed in the embryo of immature rice seeds and the expression of SLRL2 was increased when treated with GA(3). The SLRL2 over-expressed transgenic Arabidopsis plants were semi-dwarfed, late flowering, and insensitive to GA. Moreover, the expression of AtGA20ox1 and AtGA3ox1 was increased and the expression of AtGA2ox1 decreased, indicating SLRL2 was a repressor of GA signaling. We suggested SLRL2 might function to overcome too strong GA responses and maintained a basic repression. Furthermore, a different form of DELLA family in monocots against dicots was discussed.
17521730	Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris) belongs to the Compositae family, and is one of the main causes of allergy in late summer and autumn. The aim of the study was to characterize the allergen Art v 2 from mugwort pollen. Skin prick tests, performed in 19 patients allergic to mugwort and 10 control patients, showed an Art v 2 sensitization prevalence of 58%, whereas none false-positives were detected among control patients. Art v 2 was purified by standard chromatography and binding to Concanavalin A column and had an apparent molecular mass of 33 and 20 kDa, calculated by gel permeation and SDS-PAGE under denaturing conditions, respectively, showing that the allergen is composed of two identical subunits. Art v 2-encoding cDNA was amplified by PCR using degenerate primers based on reported partial amino acid sequences. Cloned cDNA encoding Art v 2 contains 140 bp that codify for a polypeptide of 15.8 kDa, with a predicted pI value of 5.2, and one potential N-glycosylation site. Protein homology search demonstrated that Art v 2 share 55-42% identical residues with pathogenesis-related protein PR-1 of tomato, potato, rape, wheat and rice. Homology was also found to Ves v 5 (41% identical residues). Bacterial-expressed recombinant Art v 2 was recognized only by 21% of mugwort-allergic patients. In conclusion, Art v 2 from mugwort is the first weed pollen allergen that belongs to the pathogenesis-related protein PR-1 and its recombinant form could help molecular diagnosis of mugwort associated allergy.
17522827	Deleterious effects of transgenic plants on soils represent an often expressed concern, which has catalyzed numerous studies in the recent past. In this literature review, studies addressing this question have been compiled. A total of 60 studies has been found, and their findings as well as their analytical approaches are summarized. These studies analyzed the effects of seven different types of genetically engineered traits, i.e., herbicide tolerance, insect resistance, virus resistance, proteinase inhibitors, antimicrobial activity, environmental application, and biomolecule production. Sixteen genetically engineered plant species were investigated in these studies including corn, canola, soybean, cotton, potato, tobacco, alfalfa, wheat, rice, tomato, papaya, aubergine, and silver birch. Many of these plants and traits have not been commercialized and represent experimental model systems. Effects on soil microbial characteristics have been described in various studies, indicating the sensitivity and feasibility of the analytical approaches applied. However, classification of the observed effects into acceptable and unacceptable ones has not been possible so far. Establishment of validated indicators for adverse effects represents a scientific challenge for the near future, and will assist risk assessment and regulation of transgenic plants commercially released to the field.
17522835	Common genome anchor points across many taxa greatly facilitate translational and comparative genomics and will improve our understanding of the Tree of Life. To add to the repertoire of genomic tools applicable to the study of monocotyledonous plants in general, we aligned Allium and Musa ESTs to Oryza BAC sequences and identified candidate Allium-Oryza and Musa-Oryza conserved intron-scanning primers (CISPs). A random sampling of 96 CISP primer pairs, representing loci from 11 of the 12 chromosomes in rice, were tested on seven members of the order Poales and on representatives of the Arecales, Asparagales, and Zingiberales monocot orders. The single-copy amplification success rates of Allium (31.3%), Cynodon (31.4%), Hordeum (30.2%), Musa (37.5%), Oryza (61.5%), Pennisetum (33.3%), Sorghum (47.9%), Zea (33.3%), Triticum (30.2%), and representatives of the palm family (32.3%) suggest that subsets of these primers will provide DNA markers suitable for comparative and translational genomics in orphan crops, as well as for applications in conservation biology, ecology, invasion biology, population biology, systematic biology, and related fields.
17522952	The objective of this study was to identify rice gene promoters that are specifically induced by feeding of the striped stemborer (Chilo suppressalis). Two PCR-selected cDNA subtractive libraries were constructed from the rice variety Minghui 63. Up- and down-regulated cDNAs induced by C. suppressalis feeding were arrayed on nylon membranes. After array hybridization and Northern blot analysis, a cDNA (B1-A04) encoding a putative subtilisin/chymotrypsin inhibitor was found to be rapidly and highly induced by C. suppressalis feeding, compared with mechanical wounding. The putative promoter region, spanning from -1,569 to +446 relative to the transcriptional initiation site was isolated, fused to the GUS gene (beta-glucuronidase reporter gene) and introduced by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation to rice. In non-infested plants, the GUS activity driven by this promoter fragment was detected in culms and panicles, but not in leaves and sheaths. At 6 h after insect feeding, GUS activity was significantly induced in sheaths and culms, but not in leaves. GUS activity and native B1-A04 gene were not induced by JA and ABA treatment. A serial deletion analysis revealed two regions (-1,569 to -1,166 and -1,166 to -582) that negatively regulate the gene expression in sheaths of non-infested plants but not in insect-infested plants. An electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) identified 7 DNA fragments with various binding activities with nuclear proteins from mechanically wounded, insect-infested and untreated plants, and their possible roles in gene regulation were speculated. This promoter fragment should have utility in development of insect resistant transgenic crops.
17522954	Plastids are organelles unique to plant cells and are responsible for photosynthesis and other metabolic functions. Despite their important cellular roles, relatively little is known about the mechanism of plastidial DNA replication and repair. Recently, we identified a novel DNA polymerase in Oryza Sativa L. (OsPOLP1, formerly termed OsPolI-like) that is homologous to prokaryotic DNA polymerase Is (PolIs), and suggested that this polymerase might be involved in plastidial DNA replication and repair. Here, we propose to rename the plant PolI homologs as DNA polymerase pi (POLP), and investigate the biochemical properties of full-length OsPOLP1. The purified OsPOLP1 elongated both DNA and RNA primer hybridized to a DNA template, and possessed a 3' exonuclease activity. Moreover, OsPOLP1 displayed high processivity and fidelity, indicating that this polymerase has the biochemical characteristics appropriate for DNA replication. We found that POLPs have two extra sequences in the polymerase domain that are absent in prokaryotic PolIs. Deletion of either insert from OsPOLP1 caused a decrease in DNA synthetic activity, processivity, and DNA binding activity. In addition, OsPOLP1 efficiently catalyzed strand displacement on nicked DNA with a 5'-deoxyribose phosphate, suggesting that this enzyme might be involved in a repair pathway similar to long-patch base excision repair. These results provide insights into the possible role of POLPs in plastidial DNA replication and repair.
17522955	Relatively few indica rice full-length cDNAs were available to aid in the annotation of rice genes. The data presented here described the sequencing and analysis of 10,096 full-length cDNAs from Oryza sativa subspecies indica Guangluai 4. Of them, 9,029 matched rice genomic sequences in publicly-available databases, and 1,200 were identified as new rice genes. Comparison with the knowledge-based Oryza Molecular Biological Encyclopedia japonica cDNA collection indicated that 3,316 (41.6%) of the 7,965 indica-japonica cDNA pairs showed no distinct variations at protein level (2,117 indica-japonica cDNA pairs showed fully identical and 1,199 indica-japonica cDNA pairs showed no frame shift). Moreover, 3,645 (45.8%) of the indica-japonica pairs showed substantial differences at the protein level due to single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), insertions or deletions, and sequence-segment variations between indica and japonica subspecies. Further experimental verifications using PCR screening and quantitative reverse transcriptional PCR revealed unique transcripts for indica subspecies. Comparative analysis also showed that most of rice genes were evolved under purifying selection. These variations might distinguish the phenotypic changes of the two cultivated rice subspecies indica and japonica. Analysis of these cDNAs extends known rice genes and identifies new ones in rice.
1752425	The nucleotide divergence of chloroplast DNAs around the hot spot region related to length mutation in Triticum (wheat) and Aegilops was analyzed. DNA sequences (ca. 4.5 kbp) of three chloroplast genome types of wheat complex were compared with one another and with the corresponding region of other grasses. The sequences region contained rbcL and psaI, two open reading frames, and a pseudogene, rpl23' (pseudogene for ribosomal protein L23) disrupted by AT-rich intergic spacer regions. The evolution of these genes in the closely related wheat complex is characterized by nonbiased nucleotide substitutions in terms of being synonymous/nonsynonymous, having A-T pressure transitions over transversions, and frequent changes at the third codon position, in contrast with the gene evolution among more distant plant groups where biased nucleotide substitutions have frequently occurred. The sequences of these genes had diverged almost in proportion to taxonomic distance. The sequence of the pseudogene rpl23' changed approximately two times faster than that of the coding region. Sequence comparison between the pseudogene and its protein-coding counterpart revealed different degrees of nucleotide homology in wheat, rice and maize, suggesting that the transposition timing of the pseudogene differed and/or that different rates of gene conversion operated on the pseudogene in the cpDNA of the three plant groups in Gramineae. The intergenic spacer regions diverged approximately ten times faster than the genes. The divergence of wheat from barley, and that from rice are estimated based on the nucleotide similarity to be 1.5, 10 and 40 million years, respectively.
17524436	Terpenoids serve as both constitutive and inducible defense chemicals in many plant species, and volatile terpenes participate in plant a indirect defense by attracting natural enemies of the herbivores. The rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome contains about 50 genes encoding putative terpene synthases (TPSs). Here we report that two of the rice sesquiterpene synthase genes, OsTPS3 and OsTPS13, encode (E)-beta-caryophyllene synthase and (E,E)-farnesol synthase, respectively. In vitro, the recombinant protein of OsTPS3 catalyzed formation of (E)-beta-caryophyllene and several other sesquiterpenes, including beta-elemene and alpha-humulene, all being components of inducible volatiles of rice plants. The transcript levels of OsTPS3 exhibit a circadian rhythm of fluctuation, and its expression was also greatly induced by methyl jasmonate (MeJA). In addition, expression of OsTPS3 in transgenic plants of Arabidopsis thaliana resulted in emitting high quantities of OsTPS3 products. We also overexpressed OsTPS3 in rice plants which then produced more (E)-beta-caryophyllene after MeJA treatment. Finally, we found that the MeJA-treated transgenic rice plants attracted more parasitoid wasps of Anagrus nilaparvatae than the wild-type. These results demonstrate that OsTPS3, an enzyme catalyzing the formation of volatile sesquiterpenes, plays a role in indirect defense of rice plants.
17524611	In plants, ZnF-AN1 genes are part of a multigene family with 13 members in Arabidopsis thaliana, 19 members in Populus trichocarpa, 17 members in Oryza sativa, at least 11 members in Zea mays, and 2 members in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. All ZnF-AN1 genes contain the ZnF-AN1 domain. According to the phylogenetic analysis of the ZnF-AN1 domain, we divided plant ZnF-AN1 genes into two types. The coding sequences of most type I members do not possess any introns, while most type II members do possess intron(s). Through Northern blot analysis of maize members and digital Northern analysis of Arabidopsis members, we found that most ZnF-AN1 genes are involved in responses to abiotic stresses. The evolutionary analysis indicated that the expansion rate of type I was higher than that of type II. After expansion, some ZnF-AN1 genes may have gained new functions, some may have lost their functions, and some were specialized to perform their functions in stress-specific or tissue-specific modes. In addition, we propose an evolutionary model of type II ZnF-AN1 genes in plants.
17524656	Nicotianamine and nicotianamine synthase (NAS) play key roles in iron nutrition in all higher plants. However, the mechanism underlying the regulation of NAS expression differs among plant species. Sequences homologous to iron deficiency-responsive elements (IDEs), i.e., cis-acting elements, are found on the promoters of these genes. We aimed to verify the interspecies compatibility of the Fe-deficiency response of NAS1 genes and understand the universal mechanisms that regulate their expression patterns in higher plants. Therefore, we introduced the graminaceous (Hordeum vulgare L. and Oryza sativa L.) NAS1 promoter::GUS into dicots (Nicotiana tabacum L. and Arabidopsis thaliana L.). Fe deficiency induced HvNAS1 expression in the shoots and roots when introduced into rice. HvNAS1 promoter::GUS and OsNAS1 promoter::GUS induced strong expression of GUS under Fe-deficient conditions in transformed tobacco. In contrast, these promoters only definitely functioned in Arabidopsis transformants. These results suggest that some Fe nutrition-related trans-factors are not compatible between graminaceous plants and Arabidopsis. HvNAS1 promoter::GUS induced GUS activity only in the roots of transformed tobacco under Fe-deficient conditions. On the other hand, OsNAS1 promoter::GUS induced GUS activity in both the roots and shoots of transformed tobacco under conditions of Fe deficiency. In tobacco transformants, the induction of GUS activity was induced earlier in the shoots than roots. These results suggest that the HvNAS1 and OsNAS1 promoters are compatible with Fe-acquisition-related trans-factors in the roots of tobacco and that the OsNAS1 promoter is also compatible with some shoot-specific Fe deficiency-related trans-factors in tobacco.
17524714	National health in the United States is influenced by the dietary norms brought into the country by an increasing number of immigrants. This cross-sectional study aimed to document dietary changes and disease prevalence in relation to the length of residence in the United States for Korean Americans in Michigan. Of 1,860 questionnaires mailed out, 637 (34.3%) were returned with respondent-reported information, including demographics, weight and height, chronic diseases, and dietary patterns. Included in the final analyses were 497 first-generation Korean-American immigrants (263 men, 234 women, aged 30 to 87 years). Analysis of covariance with the Tukey test and logistic regression models provided sex-specific analysis of dietary changes and disease patterns. All statistical analyses were adjusted for age. Chronic diseases reported most frequently by men and women, respectively, were hypertension, digestive diseases, arthritis, and diabetes. Length of residence in the United States (<or=15 years, 16 to 25 years, or >or=26 years) was inversely associated with the prevalence of digestive diseases in men (P=0.017) and women (P=0.001), and positively with respiratory diseases in men and thyroid disease in women (P<0.05). Length of residence in the United States was inversely associated with intake of rice/rice dishes in both men (servings per week, P<0.001) and women (P=0.012). The prevalence of digestive diseases associated inversely with length of residence and positively with servings of rice/rice dishes consumed for Korean-American men. The age-adjusted odds ratio for digestive diseases was highest among men who had the shortest length of residence in the United States (<or=15 years) and greater consumption of rice/rice dishes (>2 servings per day) (odds ratio 12.10; P=0.03). Dietary changes of Korean-American immigrants in the United States over time were associated with changes in their chronic disease patterns. These findings may help food and nutrition professionals who work with minority immigrants because they identify factors that affect changes in dietary patterns and work toward preventing diet-related diseases. Prospective studies could address underlying mechanisms of the observed diet-disease relationship with subsequent generations of Korean Americans, as well as various ethnic minority immigrants in the United States.
17524722	In Africa, the human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) complex is commonly referred to as "slim disease" because, as the disease progresses, food intake and metabolism are altered, leading to visible body weight loss. In this descriptive, cross-sectional pilot study, 50 HIV-seropositive adults attending the Korle Bu Teaching Hospital in Accra, Ghana, were interviewed during the late spring of 2003. Demographics, medical HIV history and current status of their HIV disease, food safety, and food security information were collected. One 24-hour dietary recall was completed, height and weight were measured, and body mass index (BMI) was calculated for each participant. Results show that women participants had a higher mean BMI and maintained it through disease progression compared with men (P<0.02). The majority of the participants cited cost as a barrier in purchasing adequate amounts of food (92%). Fruit and vegetable intake was low overall (<three servings/day). The foods contributing most to daily energy intake were fried fish, white rice, kenkey, white bread, and fufu. In fighting the global HIV/AIDS epidemic, registered dietitians must consider barriers to achieving optimal nutritional status in a cultural context to enhance feasibility and ensure the effectiveness of dietary interventions.
17524949	We present the case of a 43-year-old renal transplant patient who presented with fever, malaise, pruritus, headache, and severe jaundice of 3-week duration following work in a rice field. He was found to have acute renal failure and severe hyperbilirubinemia with a positive serum leptospira antibody titer, making the diagnosis of Weil's disease. The patient responded to reduction in immunosuppressive medications and intravenous penicillin therapy with no need for dialysis. This is the second case of leptospirosis in a kidney transplant patient reported in the English literature.
17525075	Aluminium (Al) toxicity is a worldwide problem in agricultural practice. Based on evidence that Al resistance may be an inducible process and that rice is one of the most Al-resistant crops, the gene transcriptional responses to Al were investigated in two contrasting rice cultivars (resistant XN1 versus sensitive XX2) using differential display reverse transcription-PCR (DDRT-PCR) in combination with northern blotting analysis. A total of 37 genes were identified as differentially expressed, of which five have been previously known as Al regulated while the others are novel genes. Among the up-regulated genes, four encode ion transporters, two are involved in signal transduction, and five in the synthesis of cysteine and metallothionein. These could be members that are potentially involved in Al adaptation or resistance. On the other hand, the transcription of 17 genes was strongly inhibited under Al stress. These genes are associated with cytoskeletal dynamics and metabolism, and could be possible targets associated with Al toxicity. All of these differentially expressed genes may represent candidates that function in Al responses. The results suggest, at the transcriptional level, that cytoskeletal disruption may be associated with Al toxicity, whereas ion transport and sulphur metabolism could play major roles in Al adaptation or tolerance in rice.
17526664	Two trials were conducted to evaluate the interaction of the maceration process and surfactant (Tween 80) supplementation on feeding value of rice straw. Treatments were steam-flaked, corn-based diets containing 14% forage (DM basis), which was 1) Sudangrass hay; 2) ground rice straw; 3) ground rice straw plus 0.22% Tween 80; 4) macerated rice straw; and 5) macerated rice straw plus 0.22% Tween 80. In the maceration process, rice straw was passed through 2 sequentially placed pairs of corrugated rolls set at zero tolerance under a ram pressure of 62,050 millibars, similar to a conventional grain roller mill, except that the opposing rolls operated at different speeds (12 and 14 rpm, respectively). Sudangrass hay and rice straw (native and macerated) were ground through a 2.6-cm screen before incorporation into complete mixed diets. In trial 1, 125 Holstein steers (292 +/- 1.7 kg of BW) were used in a 188-d evaluation of the treatment effects on growth performance and carcass characteristics. In trial 2, 5 Holstein steers (224 +/- 3.5 kg of BW) with cannulas in the rumen and proximal duodenum were used in a 5 x 5 Latin square design to evaluate the treatment effects on digestion. There were no interactions between maceration and surfactant on growth or carcass characteristics. Tween 80 did not influence the feeding value of rice straw. Compared with grinding alone, maceration of rice straw increased the carcass-adjusted ADG (6%, P < 0.10), G:F (6%, P < 0.05), and dietary NE (5%, P < 0.05); DMI was similar across treatments. Assuming NE(m) and NE(g) of Sudangrass hay are 1.18 and 0.62 Mcal/kg, the NE(m) and NE(g) were 0.61 and 0.13 Mcal/kg for ground rice straw and 1.21 and 0.65 Mcal/kg for macerated rice straw. There were no treatment interactions on characteristics of digestion. Tween 80 did not influence ruminal or total tract digestion of OM, starch, NDF, or N. Compared with grinding alone, maceration of rice straw increased ruminal digestion of OM (7.7%, P < 0.10) and NDF (30.8%, P < 0.05), and total tract digestion of OM (2.3%, P < 0.10), NDF (21.1%, P < 0.01), and N (3.7%, P < 0.05). Total tract digestion of OM, NDF, starch, and N for the Sudangrass diet corresponded closely with that of the macerated rice straw diets. Maceration increases the feeding value of rice straw to a level similar to that of good-quality (flag stage of maturity) Sudangrass hay, which is attributable to increased OM and NDF digestion. Effects of surfactant supplementation on growth performance and digestion are not appreciable.
17526778	We found that species combinations such as Lactobacillus casei subsp. rhamnosus IFO3831 and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Kyokai-10 can form a mixed-species biofilm in coculture. Moreover, the Kyokai-10 yeast strain can form a biofilm in monoculture in the presence of conditioned medium (CM) from L. casei IFO3831. The active substance(s) in bacterial CM is heat sensitive and has a molecular mass of between 3 and 5 kDa. In biofilms from cocultures or CM monocultures, yeast cells had a distinct morphology, with many hill-like protrusions on the cell surface.
17530532	The occurrence of asthma symptoms and food consumption frequencies in 13- to 14-year-old schoolchildren was investigated in Lhasa, Tibet (3,658 meters above sea level). A total of 99.2% of the schoolchildren reported that they had not experienced any wheezing during the prior 12 months. Among these students, more than 50% had consumed rice, meat, fruits, and vegetables at least three times per week in the preceding year. More than 70% of the non-asthmatic students rarely consumed margarine; 50% of these students rarely ate fast food; and 40% only occasionally ate fish during the prior 12 months. The dietary habits of the schoolchildren in Lhasa may have some potential beneficial roles in contributing to the low prevalence of asthma in this high altitude region.
17531407	OsIpk and HvIpk, inositol phosphate kinases, were cloned from rice (Oryza sativa L. var. indica, IR64) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) respectively. Sequence alignment showed that they belong to the ATP-grasp family, which includes inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate 5/6-kinase from humans and Arabidopsis. Residues that are binding sites for ATP and coordinate magnesium in absence or presence of inositol phosphate are conserved and in total 23 residues are invariant among the twelve aligned inositol phosphate kinases. The genes were heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and kinase activity assays with 17 different isomers of inositol mono-/di-/tri-/tetra-/pentaphosphate as well as phytate were performed. The strongest activity for both kinases was observed with Ins(3,4,5,6)P(4), which candidates as the primary substrate for these kinases in plants. Several species-specific differences between the two recombinant Ipks were observed. Rice OsIpk showed detectable kinase activity towards eight different substrates, whereas barley HvIpk showed kinase activity with all the substrates including inositol mono- and bisphosphates. HvIpk showed 3-kinase activity towards the Ins(1,4,5)P(3) substrate and it also interconverted the two substrates Ins(1,3,4,5)P(4) and Ins(1,3,4,6)P(4) by isomerase activity, which was not observed for the rice homologue. Both OsIpk and HvIpk had no detectable 2-kinase activity. Furthermore, the two Ipks showed phosphatase activity towards several inositol phosphates. Expression analysis by RT-PCR demonstrated that the Ipk gene was equally expressed in different tissues and developmental stages. Taken together, these results show that the Ipk kinase plays a significant role in the inositol phosphate interacting network in plants.
17532018	Polyacetylenes 1 and 2 were isolated from extracts of Japanese ivy (Hedera rhombea Bean) flower buds, with their chemical structures established on the basis of extensive 1D and 2D NMR and MS analyses. The absolute configurations of compounds 1 and 2 were determined by both chemical means, and by using the modified Mosher's method. Compound 1 is the first polyacetylene having an ester linkage between falcarindiol (3) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) moieties and 2 also had an unique substructure containing a conjugated diene adjacent to a hydroxy group. Polyacetylenes 1, 2, and 3 were also subjected to assessment of growth inhibition against the shoot and root growth of the monocotyledon plants, rice and perennial ryegrass, as well as the dicotyledons, cockscomb, lettuce, cress, and fenugreek. The most bioactive compound appeared to be compound 1, while 2 showed no activity. Compound 1 selectively showed growth inhibitory activity against dicotyledons.
17532485	We present a detailed characterization of the chitin oligosaccharide elicitor-induced gene OsWRKY53. OsWRKY53 was also induced in suspension-cultured rice cells by a fungal cerebroside elicitor and in rice plants by infection with the blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. A fusion of OsWRKY53 with green fluorescent protein was detected exclusively in the nuclei of onion epidermal cells, and OsWRKY53 protein specifically bound to W-box elements. A transient assay using the particle bombardment method showed that OsWRKY53 is a transcriptional activator. A microarray analysis revealed that several defense-related genes, including pathogenesis-related protein genes such as PBZ1, were upregulated in rice cells overexpressing OsWRKY53. Finally, overexpression of OsWRKY53 in rice plants resulted in enhanced resistance to M. grisea. These results strongly suggest that OsWRKY53 is a transcription factor that plays important roles in elicitor-induced defense signaling pathways in rice.
17532716	Policosanol is an agent that includes mixtures of aliphatic primary alcohols extracted primarily from sugar-cane wax. This mixture has been shown to lower total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol in animal models, healthy volunteers and hypercholesterolaemic patients. This study investigated the efficacy and tolerability of rice policosanol (Oryza sp.) 10 mg/day in 70 hypercholesterolaemic patients of both sexes aged 20-78 years in a randomised, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled, single-centre trial. After an 8-week run-in period during which patients were placed on therapeutic lifestyle changes, in particular a cholesterol-lowering diet, they were randomly assigned to receive rice policosanol 10mg tablets or placebo tablets once daily with the evening meal for 8 weeks. During the next 8 weeks those patients who received policosanol during the first 8 weeks received placebo, and those who received placebo during the first 8 weeks, received policosanol. Total, LDL, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), HDL2 and HDL3 cholesterol, triglycerides, oxidised LDL (ox-LDL), apoproteins (Apos) AI and B, lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)], fibrinogen, homocysteine and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were measured. Rice policosanol significantly reduced plasma total cholesterol from 7.37 +/- 1.42 mmol/L to 6.99 +/- 1.33 mmol/L (p = 0.007) and increased Apo AI from 1.49 +/- 0.39 mmol/L to 1.58 +/- 0.38 mmol/L (p = 0.037) but did not change plasma triglycerides, HDL, HDL2, HDL3 and LDL cholesterol, ox-LDL, Lp(a), Apo B, fibrinogen, homocysteine or CRP levels. Rice policosanol 10 mg/day moderately decreased plasma total cholesterol and increased Apo AI. Rice policosanol was also well tolerated, with no drug-related effects on safety parameters such as serum aminotransferases and creatine phosphokinase detected or found on physical examination.
17534593	Comparisons of complete chloroplast genome sequences of Hordeum vulgare, Sorghum bicolor and Agrostis stolonifera to six published grass chloroplast genomes reveal that gene content and order are similar but two microstructural changes have occurred. First, the expansion of the IR at the SSC/IRa boundary that duplicates a portion of the 5' end of ndhH is restricted to the three genera of the subfamily Pooideae (Agrostis, Hordeum and Triticum). Second, a 6 bp deletion in ndhK is shared by Agrostis, Hordeum, Oryza and Triticum, and this event supports the sister relationship between the subfamilies Erhartoideae and Pooideae. Repeat analysis identified 19-37 direct and inverted repeats 30 bp or longer with a sequence identity of at least 90%. Seventeen of the 26 shared repeats are found in all the grass chloroplast genomes examined and are located in the same genes or intergenic spacer (IGS) regions. Examination of simple sequence repeats (SSRs) identified 16-21 potential polymorphic SSRs. Five IGS regions have 100% sequence identity among Zea mays, Saccharum officinarum and Sorghum bicolor, whereas no spacer regions were identical among Oryza sativa, Triticum aestivum, H. vulgare and A. stolonifera despite their close phylogenetic relationship. Alignment of EST sequences and DNA coding sequences identified six C-U conversions in both Sorghum bicolor and H. vulgare but only one in A. stolonifera. Phylogenetic trees based on DNA sequences of 61 protein-coding genes of 38 taxa using both maximum parsimony and likelihood methods provide moderate support for a sister relationship between the subfamilies Erhartoideae and Pooideae.
17534720	An approximately 247-kb genomic region from FF genome of wild rice Oryza brachyantha, possessing the smallest Oryza genome, was compared to the orthologous approximately 450-kb region from AA genome, O. sativa L. ssp. japonica. 37 of 38 genes in the orthologous regions are shared between japonica and O. brachyantha. Analyses of nucleotide substitution in coding regions suggest the two genomes diverged approximately 10 million years ago. Comparisons of transposable elements (TEs) reveal that the density of DNA TEs in O. brachyantha is comparable to O. sativa; however, the density of RNA TEs is dramatically lower. The genomic fraction of RNA TEs in japonica is two times greater than in O. brachyantha. Differences, particularly in RNA TEs, in this region and in BAC end sequences from five wild and two cultivated Oryza species explain major genome size differences between sativa and brachyantha. Gene expression analyses of three ObDREB1 genes in the sequenced region indicate orthologous genes retain similar expression patterns following cold stress. Our results demonstrate that size and number of RNA TEs play a major role in genomic differentiation and evolution in Oryza. Additionally, distantly related O. brachyantha shares colinearity with O. sativa, offering opportunities to use comparative genomics to explore the genetic diversity of wild species to improve cultivated rice.
17535443	EST-PCR markers normally represent specific products from target genes, and are therefore effective tools for genetic analysis. However, because wheat is an allohexaploid plant, PCR products derived from homoeologous genes are often simultaneously amplified. Such products may be easier to differentiate if they include intron sequences, which are more polymorphic than exon sequences. However, genomic sequence data for wheat are limited; therefore it is difficult to predict the location of introns. By using the similarities in gene structures between rice and wheat, we developed a system called PLUG (PCR-based Landmark Unique Gene) to design primers so that PCR products include intron sequences. We then investigated whether products amplified using such primers could serve as markers able to distinguish multiple products derived from homoeologous genes. The PLUG system consists of the following steps: (1) Single-copy rice genes (Landmark Unique Gene loci; LUGs) exhibiting high degrees of homology to wheat UniGene sequences are extracted; (2) Alignment analysis is carried out using the LUGs and wheat UniGene sequences to predict exon-exon junctions, and LUGs which can be used to design wheat primers flanking introns (TaEST-LUGs) are extracted; and (3) Primers are designed in an interactive manner. From a total of 4,312 TaEST-LUGs, 24 loci were randomly selected and used to design primers. With all of these primer sets, we obtained specific, intron-containing products from the target genes. These markers were assigned to chromosomes using wheat nullisomic-tetrasomic lines. By PCR-RFLP analysis using agarose gel electrophoresis, 19 of the 24 markers were located on at least one chromosome. In the development of wheat EST-PCR markers capable of efficiently sorting products derived from homoeologous genes, it is important to design primers able to amplify products that include intron sequences with insertion/deletion polymorphisms. Using the PLUG system, wheat EST sequences that can be used for marker development are selected based on comparative genomics with rice, and then primer sets flanking intron sequences are prepared in an interactive, semi-automatic manner. Hence, the PLUG system is an effective tool for large-scale marker development.
17535819	Plants respond to adverse environments by initiating a series of signaling processes that often involves diverse protein kinases, including calcineurin B-like protein-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs). In this study, putative CIPK genes (OsCIPK01-OsCIPK30) in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome were surveyed for their transcriptional responses to various abiotic stresses. The results showed that 20 OsCIPK genes were differentially induced by at least one of the stresses, including drought, salinity, cold, polyethylene glycol, and abscisic acid treatment. Most of the genes induced by drought or salt stress were also induced by abscisic acid treatment but not by cold. A few CIPK genes containing none of the reported stress-responsive cis-elements in their promoter regions were also induced by multiple stresses. To prove that some of these stress-responsive OsCIPK genes are potentially useful for stress-tolerance improvement, three CIPK genes (OsCIPK03, OsCIPK12, and OsCIPK15) were overexpressed in japonica rice 'Zhonghua 11'. Transgenic plants overexpressing the transgenes OsCIPK03, OsCIPK12, and OsCIPK15 showed significantly improved tolerance to cold, drought, and salt stress, respectively. Under cold and drought stresses, OsCIPK03- and OsCIPK12-overexpressing transgenic plants accumulated significantly higher contents of proline and soluble sugars than the wild type. Putative proline synthetase and transporter genes had significantly higher expression level in the transgenic plants than in the wild type. The differentially induced expression of OsCIPK genes by different stresses and the examples of improved stress tolerance of the OsCIPK transgenic rice suggest that rice CIPK genes have diverse roles in different stress responses and some of them may possess potential usefulness in stress-tolerance improvement of rice.
17535821	Chlorophyll (Chl) synthase catalyzes esterification of chlorophyllide to complete the last step of Chl biosynthesis. Although the Chl synthases and the corresponding genes from various organisms have been well characterized, Chl synthase mutants have not yet been reported in higher plants. In this study, a rice (Oryza Sativa) Chl-deficient mutant, yellow-green leaf1 (ygl1), was isolated, which showed yellow-green leaves in young plants with decreased Chl synthesis, increased level of tetrapyrrole intermediates, and delayed chloroplast development. Genetic analysis demonstrated that the phenotype of ygl1 was caused by a recessive mutation in a nuclear gene. The ygl1 locus was mapped to chromosome 5 and isolated by map-based cloning. Sequence analysis revealed that it encodes the Chl synthase and its identity was verified by transgenic complementation. A missense mutation was found in a highly conserved residue of YGL1 in the ygl1 mutant, resulting in reduction of the enzymatic activity. YGL1 is constitutively expressed in all tissues, and its expression is not significantly affected in the ygl1 mutant. Interestingly, the mRNA expression of the cab1R gene encoding the Chl a/b-binding protein was severely suppressed in the ygl1 mutant. Moreover, the expression of some nuclear genes associated with Chl biosynthesis or chloroplast development was also affected in ygl1 seedlings. These results indicate that the expression of nuclear genes encoding various chloroplast proteins might be feedback regulated by the level of Chl or Chl precursors.
17536180	Elucidation of genome sequence provides an excellent platform to understand detailed complexity of the various gene families. Hsp100 is an important family of chaperones in diverse living systems. There are eight putative gene loci encoding for Hsp100 proteins in Arabidopsis genome. In rice, two full-length Hsp100 cDNAs have been isolated and sequenced so far. Analysis of rice genomic sequence by in silico approach showed that two isolated rice Hsp100 cDNAs correspond to Os05g44340 and Os02g32520 genes in the rice genome database. There appears to be three additional proteins (encoded by Os03g31300, Os04g32560 and Os04g33210 gene loci) that are variably homologous to Os05g44340 and Os02g32520 throughout the entire amino acid sequence. The above five rice Hsp100 genes show significant similarities in the signature sequences known to be conserved among Hsp100 proteins. While Os05g44340 encodes cytoplasmic Hsp100 protein, those encoded by the other four genes are predicted to have chloroplast transit peptides.
17536181	Salt stress is an environmental factor that severely impairs plant growth and productivity. We have cloned a novel isoform of a vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter from Pennisetum glaucum (PgNHX1) that contains 5 transmembrane domains in contrast to AtNHX1 and OsNHX1 which have 9 transmembrane domains. Recently we have shown that PgNHX1 could confer high level of salinity tolerance when overexpressed in Brassica juncea. Here,we report the functional validation of this antiporter in crop plant rice. Overexpression of PgNHX1 conferred high level of salinity tolerance in rice. Transgenic rice plants overexpressing PgNHX1 developed more extensive root system and completed their life cycle by setting flowers and seeds in the presence of 150 mM NaCl. Our data demonstrate the potential of PgNHX1 for imparting enhanced salt tolerance capabilities to salt-sensitive crop plants for growing in high saline areas.
17536673	Toxigenic Staphylococcus aureus contamination in ready-to-eat (RTE) food is a leading cause of foodborne illness in Korea. To monitor food contamination by S. aureus, a total of 3332 RTE food samples were selected from nationwide wholesale marts between 2003 and 2004 and examined. A total of 285 (8.6%) of the overall samples were contaminated by S. aureus. According to the analysis, 31.6% of the tested cream-cakes, 19.8% of the raw fish, and 19.3% of the rice cakes with filling were contaminated with S. aureus. Forty-seven percent of the strains isolated from the contaminated food were enterotoxigenic S. aureus. The phenotypic result of the strain isolated from food showed that 48% of the strains produced one or more toxins, such as staphylococcal enterotoxins A, B, and C (SEA, SEB, and SEC). At least one SEA was produced by over 90% of the toxigenic strains. Other toxins, such as SEB, SEC, SED, SEA+SEC, and SEC+SED, were each detected. Toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (TSST-1), a causative agent of toxic shock syndrome, was detected in 13 strains of the toxigenic isolates from the food. As the result of genotyping, 22 strains with a toxin gene that was not detected in the phenotypic analysis were also detected. Sixty-nine percent of the toxigenic strains had at least one sea gene, and the most prevalent genotype was sea+seh (34.4%), followed by sea (18.8%) and sea+seg+sei (15.6%). The tst gene encoding TSST-1 was found in 13 strains (13.5%). The genes (eta and etb) encoding exfoliative toxins A and B were not detected in any of the samples.
17536827	The fate of benzofenap [2-[4-(2,4-dicholoro-m-toluoyl)-1,3-dimethylpyrazol-5-yloxy]-4'-methylacetophenone] applied to flooded rice was studied at two locations in New South Wales (Australia). Solid-phase extraction (SPE) was compared with liquid-liquid extraction (LLE) for the determination of the commercial chemical in water samples. SPE performed well as compared to LLE (84 vs 80%) in irrigation waters. However, at the lower end of the concentration range (3 microg/L), LLE achieved higher recoveries than SPE (72 vs 59%). Rates of dissipation (DT50) from floodwaters and soils were measured. Dissipation of the herbicide from water and soil occurred fairly erratically in both mediums and can be best explained by a first-order decay process. The DT50 value for benzofenap was <1 day in irrigation water due to rapid deposition of the suspension concentrate formulation. The DT50 in surface soil was 44 days. The maximum measured concentration of benzofenap in a rice field floodwater was 39 microg/L, taking approximately 32 days to dissipate to <1 microg/L.
17537511	Effect of addition of municipal solid waste compost (MSWC) on cobalt (Co) and nickel (Ni) contents of submerged rice paddies were studied. A sequential extraction method was used to determine the metal (Co and Ni) fractions in MSWC and cow dung manure (CDM). Both metals were significantly bound to the organic matter and Fe and Mn oxides in MSWC and CDM. Metal content in rice straw was higher than in rice grain. Metal bound with Fe and Mn oxides in MSWC and CDM best correlated with straw and grain metal followed by water soluble and exchangeable fractions. Carbonate, organic matter bound and residual fractions in MSWC and CDM did not significantly correlate with rice straw and grain metal. MSWC would be a valuable resource for agriculture, but long-term field experiments with MSWC are needed to assess by regular monitoring of the metal loads and accumulation in soil and plants.
17539070
17539258	In April 2005, The Tahi Bureau of Epidemiology investigated a reported outbreak of beriberi among commercial fishermen in Maha Chai, a port city in the Gulf of Thailand. The objective of this study was to verify the diagnosis of beriberi in affected individuals, describe the possible outbreak, ascertain risk factors, and provide prevention and control measures. We interviewed ill persons and treating doctors, and reviewed medical records to conduct a descriptive study. A probable case was defined as a crewmember of Ship A with one of the following: leg edema scrotal edema or ascites, dyspnea, chest discomfort, chest pain, extremity numbness, or extremity weakness. Confirmed cases were those with clinical criteria and laboratory findings consistent with thiamine deficiency. The outbreak started in early March, 2005 and continued until March 31, 2005. Ship A had 28 crewmembers (four Thai, 24 Myanmar). Overall, there were 15 probable cases (attack rate 53.6%, with three confirmed and 12 probable cases). Only three were tested for Vitamin B1 deficiency. All cases were male, with a median age of 28 years (range 20-45). Fourteen of the 15 cases were Myanmar and one Thai. Due to limited resources, the crew ate only seafood and polished rice for almost two months prior to symptoms. Symptoms included edema (60%), chest discomfort (54%), and dyspnea (27%). Two persons died while on board the ship (case fatality 13%). The total time at sea for Ship A was 18 months, including a five-month delay in docking due to licensing problems.
1753939	Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) protoplasts, inactivated by iodoacetamide, and non-morphogenic Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.) protoplasts, both derived from suspension cultures, were electrofused and putative somatic hybrid plants were recovered. Two different genotypic fusion combinations were carried out and several green plants were regenerated in one of them. With respect to plant habitus, leaf and inflorescence morphology, the regenerants had phenotypes intermediate between those of the parents. Southern hybridization analysis using a rice ribosomal DNA probe revealed that the regenerants contained both tall fescue- and Italian ryegrass-specific-DNA fragments. A cloned Italian ryegrass-specific interspersed DNA probe hybridized to total genomic DNA from Italian ryegrass and from the green regenerated somatic hybrid plants but not to tall fescue. Chromosome counts and zymograms of leaf esterases suggested nuclear genome instability of the somatic hybrid plants analyzed. Four mitochondrial probes and one chloroplast DNA probe were used in Southern hybridization experiments to analyze the organellar composition of the somatic hybrids obtained. The somatic hybrid plants analyzed showed tall fescue, additive or novel mtDNA patterns when hybridized with different mitochondrial gene-specific probes, while corresponding analysis using a chloroplast gene-specific probe revealed in all cases the tall fescue hybridization profile. Independently regenerated F. arundinacea (+) L. multiflorum somatic hybrid plants were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity, representing the first flowering intergeneric somatic hybrids recovered in Gramineae.
1753941	It has been previously reported that the 5' region of the rice actin 1 gene (Act1) promoted high-level expression of a beta-glucuronidase reporter gene (Gus) in transformed rice cells. In this paper we describe the construction of Act1-based expression vectors for use in monocot transformation. As part of the development of these vectors, we have evaluated the influence of the Act1 first intron, the Act1-Gus junction-encoded N-terminal amino acids, and the sequence context surrounding the Act1 and Gus translation initiation site on Act1-Gus gene expression in rice and maize cells. We have found that addition of Act1 intron 1 to the transcription unit of a Gus reporter gene under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter stimulated GUS activity more than 10-fold in transformed rice cells. Optimization of the sequence context around the Gus translation initiation site resulted in a 4-fold stimulation of Gus expression in transformed rice cells. By utilizing both the Act1 intron 1 and optimized Gus translation initiation site, a 40-fold stimulation in Gus expression from the CaMV 35S promoter has been achieved in transformed rice cells; very similar results were obtained in transformed maize cells. Taken together these results suggest that the Act1-based expression vectors described here should promote the expression of foreign genes in most, if not all, transformed monocot cells to levels that have not previously been attainable with alternative expression vectors.
17539478	This study examined the effects of stabilized-rice bran (SRB) rich diet on responses to stress in rats. Standard rodent diet mixed with SRB in the ratio of 2:1 and 1:1 (w/w) was given for 6 weeks to test rats. Results showed that weekly cumulative food intakes smaller in SRB rich diet treated animals were normalized at the end of the treatment. Body weights decreased and exploratory activity in an open field increased in SRB rich diet treated animals. Learning and espatial memory monitored in the Morris water test was enhanced. An episode of 2 h restraint stress decreased food intake of SRB as well as normal diet treated animals. Deficits were smaller in SRB diet than normal diet treated animals. Exposure to 2 h restraint stress increased brain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) metabolism. The increases were smaller in SRB rich than normal diet treated animals. A potential use of SRB in health and disease is discussed in the context of its antioxidant and serotonergic effect.
17539515	The compounds 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) and 2,4-dichloro-6-nitrophenol (6-nitro-2,4-DCP) have been detected at microg L(-1) levels (10(-9)-10(-8) M) during the summer season 2005 in the water of the Rhne river delta. Compound 2,4-DCP would mainly derive from the transformation of the herbicide dichlorprop, heavily used in flooded rice farming (1400 kg in the delta region in 2005), in addition to being an impurity of the commercial herbicide. Field data show a fast concentration decrease of 2,4-DCP in the period June 21st to July 5th, accompanied by a corresponding increase of 6-nitro-2,4-DCP. This could imply a possible nitration process of 2,4-DCP into 6-nitro-2,4-DCP, with quite elevated yield (33%). Nitration of 2,4-DCP can be induced by photoproduced *NO2, the reaction kinetics (calculated in the presence of Fe(III) + nitrite under irradiation as model system) being d[6-nitro-2,4-DCP]/dt = 650 [2,4-DCP] [*NO2]. Interestingly, the yield of the process (38%) is similar to that suggested by field data. An indirect assessment of [*NO2] in surface water in different sites of the Rhne delta indicated that 2,4-DCP could be transformed into 6-nitro-2,4-DCP in a couple of weeks or less in the shallow water (10 cm depth) of the rice fields, a time scale that is compatible with field data. Photonitration of 2,4-DCP is thus a possible process to account for the occurrence of 6-nitro-2,4-DCP in the Rhne delta.
17539610	The kinetics and mechanism of the reaction of the cyanomidyl radical (HNCN) with the hydroxyl radical (OH) have been investigated by ab initio calculations with rate constants prediction. The single and triplet potential energy surfaces of this reaction have been calculated by single-point calculations at the CCSD(T)/6-311+G(3df,2p) level based on geometries optimized at the B3LYP/6-311+G(3df,2p) and CCSD/6-311++G(d,p) levels. The rate constants for various product channels in the temperature range of 300-3000 K are predicted by variational transition-state and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theories. The predicted total rate constants can be represented by the expressions ktotal=2.66 x 10(+2)xT-4.50 exp(-239/T) in which T=300-1000 K and 1.38x10(-20)xT2.78 exp(1578/T) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1) where T=1000-3000 K. The branching ratios of primary channels are predicted: k1 for forming singlet HON(H)CN accounts for 0.32-0.28, and k4 for forming singlet HONCNH accounts for 0.68-0.17 in the temperature range of 300-800 K. k2+k7 for producing H2O+NCN accounts for 0.55-0.99 in the high-temperature range of 800-3000 K. The branching ratios of k3 for producing HCN+HNO, k6 for producing H2N+NCO, k8 for forming 3HN(OH)CN, k9 for producing CNOH+3NH, and k5+k10 for producing NH2+NCO are negligible. The rate constants for key individual product channels are provided in a table for different temperature and pressure conditions.
17540077	In a field experiment, possible effects of transgenic Bt rice on arthropod communities under paddy field conditions were assessed for 3 yr in terms of arthropod guild dominance, family composition, dominance distribution of each guild, individuals of each guild, and community indices (including Shannon-Weaver diversity index and dominant concentration index). Our results overall suggested no significant differences between the Bt and control rice plots in these arthropod community-specific parameters. The similarity of arthropod communities in the Bt and control rice plots was apparently high. Based on our findings, we conclude that Bt rice generally exerts no marked negative effects on the arthropod community in paddy fields.
17540471	The relationship between post-prandial plasma glucose (PPG) and post-challenge plasma glucose (PCG) within individuals was investigated in Japanese population. The oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and measurements of PPG 2h after ingestion of a standardized rice-based meal (PPG2h), were performed in 4471 middle-aged Japanese subjects (2774 men and 1697 women, 50.7+/-8.5 years). There was a loose correlation between PPG2h and PCG2h (r=0.327, p<0.001). The diabetes group (n=170) showed the highest PPG2h, followed by the IGT group (n=786) and the NGT group (n=3414) (p<0.05). At the cutoff point of 140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l) for PPG2h, specificities were 94.9% for IGT plus diabetes and 92.9% for diabetes, but sensitivities were as low as 23.2% for IGT plus diabetes and 44.7% for diabetes. The correlation of PPG2h with PCG2h was stronger in the obese group (BMI>or=25 kg/m2) than in the lean group (BMI<20 kg/m2). We conclude that the correlation between PPG2h and PCG2h was significant but not very tight. In evaluating PPG2h, if the cutoff point of 140 mg/dl (7.8 mmol/l) for PCG2h is extrapolated, the majority of subjects with dysglycemia could be overlooked.
17540516	This review describes contributions to the study of plant hemoglobins (Hbs) from a historical perspective with emphasis on non-symbiotic Hbs (nsHbs). Plant Hbs were first identified in soybean root nodules, are known as leghemoglobins (Lbs) and have been characterized in detail. It is widely accepted that a function of Lbs in nodules is to facilitate the diffusion of O(2) to bacteroids. For many years Hbs could not be identified in plants other than N(2)-fixing legumes, however in the 1980s a Hb was isolated from the nodules of the non-legume dicot plant Parasponia, a hb gene was cloned from the non-nodulating Trema, and Hbs were detected in nodules of actinorhizal plants. Gene expression analysis showed that Trema Hb transcripts exist in non-symbiotic roots. In the 1990s nsHb sequences were also identified in monocot and primitive (bryophyte) plants. In addition to Lbs and nsHbs, Hb sequences that are similar to microbial truncated (2/2) Hbs were also detected in plants. Plant nsHbs have been characterized in detail. These proteins have very high O(2)-affinities because of an extremely low O(2)-dissociation constant. Analysis of rice Hb1 showed that distal His coordinates heme Fe and stabilizes bound O(2); this means that O(2) is not released easily from oxygenated nsHbs. Non-symbiotic hb genes are expressed in specific plant tissues, and overexpress in organs of stressed plants. These observations suggest that nsHbs have functions additional to O(2)-transport, such as to modulate levels of ATP and NO.
17540570	Several endogenous and environmental factors need to be integrated to time the onset of flowering. Genetic and molecular analyses, primarily in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, have shown that CONSTANS (CO) and FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) play central roles in photoperiod-dependent flowering. The overall picture is that CO acts in the phloem companion cells of leaves and that its main effect is to induce FT mRNA in these cells. Surprisingly, FT, a small globular protein of 20 kDa, interacts at the shoot apex with the bZIP transcription factor FLOWERING LOCUS D (FD) to induce downstream targets. Given that green fluorescent protein (GFP), which as a monomer is 27 kDa, can be easily exported to sink tissue including flowers when expressed in phloem companion cells, the latter finding strongly implied that FT protein is the mobile floral-inductive signal. In agreement with this hypothesis, an FT-GFP fusion, just like GFP, can be exported from the phloem of both rice and Arabidopsis. It has been unknown, however, whether mobile FT protein is sufficient for transmitting the flowering signal. Here we show that FT mRNA is required in phloem companion cells where it acts partially redundant with its paralog TWIN SISTER OF FT (TSF) to induce flowering. Furthermore, we have devised a method that uncouples FT mRNA and protein effects in vivo. We demonstrate that export of FT protein from phloem companion cells is sufficient to induce flowering.
17541632	A thermo-sensitive chlorophyll deficient mutant was isolated from more than 15,000 transgenic rice lines. The mutant displayed normal phenotype at 23 degrees C or lower temperature (permissive temperature). However, when grown at 26 degrees C or higher (nonpermissive temperature) the plant exhibited an abnormal phenotype characterized by yellow green leaves. Genetic analysis revealed that a single nuclear-encoded recessive gene is responsible for the mutation, which is tentatively designed as cde1(t) (chlorophyll deficient 1, temporally). PCR analysis and hygromycin resistance assay indicated the mutation was not caused by T-DNA insertion. To isolate the cde1(t) gene, a map-based cloning strategy was employed and 15 new markers (five SSR and ten InDels markers) were developed. A high-resolution physical map of the chromosomal region around the cde1(t) gene was made using F(2) and F(3) population consisting of 1,858 mutant individuals. Finally, the cde1(t) gene was mapped in 7.5 kb region between marker ID10 and marker ID11 on chromosome 2. Sequence analysis revealed only one candidate gene, OsGluRS, in the 7.5 kb region. Cloning and sequencing of the target region from the cde1(t) mutant showed that a missense mutation occurred in the mutant. So the OsGluRS gene (TIGR locus Os02 g02860) which encode glutamyl-tRNA synthetase was identified as the Cde1(t) gene.
17541718	Antioxidant enzymes play an important role in conferring abiotic stress tolerance. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) is the first enzyme in the enzymatic antioxidative pathway. Halophytic plants like mangroves have been reported to have a high level of SOD activity, which plays a major role in defending the mangrove species against severe abiotic stresses. We had previously reported the isolation of Sod1, a cDNA encoding a cytosolic copper zinc superoxide dismutase from the mangrove plant Avicennia marina and its mRNA expression pattern during various oxidative and abiotic stresses. The present study is an extension of the previous study in further characterizing the Sod1 cDNA by transforming it into rice and analysing the transgenic plants for abiotic stress tolerance. Southern hybridization of A. marina genomic DNA using Sod1, revealed that this gene in A. marina genome is present as a single copy. The cDNA was cloned into a binary vector (pCAMBIA 1300) and transformed into indica rice var Pusa Basmati-1. Southern hybridization analysis of transgenic rice plants revealed stable integration of the Sod1 transgene in the rice genome. The mRNA transcript of Sod1 was detected by Northern hybridisation in the transgenic rice plants. SOD isozyme assay of the transgenic rice plants revealed the stable expression of the transgenic Sod1 protein. The transgenic plants were more tolerant to methyl viologen mediated oxidative stress in comparison to the untransformed control plants. The transgenic plants also withstood salinity stress of 150 mM of NaCl for a period of eight days while the untransformed control plants wilted at the end of the stress treatment in hydroponics. Pot grown transgenic plants could also tolerate salinity stress better than the untransformed control plants, when irrigated with saline water. The transgenic plants also revealed better tolerance to drought stress in comparison to untransformed control plants.
17542924	Fungal plant pathogens have evolved diverse strategies to overcome the multilayered plant defence responses that confront them upon host invasion. Here we show that pathogenicity of the cucumber anthracnose fungus, Colletotrichum lagenarium, and the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe grisea, requires a gene orthologous to Saccharomyces cerevisiae SSD1, a regulator of cell wall assembly. Screening for C. lagenarium insertional mutants deficient in pathogenicity led to the identification of ClaSSD1. Following targeted gene replacement, appressoria of classd1 mutants retained the potential for penetration but were unable to penetrate into host epidermal cells. Transmission electron microscopy suggested that appressorial penetration by classd1 mutants was restricted by plant cell wall-associated defence responses, which were observed less frequently with the wild-type strain. Interestingly, on non-host onion epidermis classd1 mutants induced papilla formation faster and more abundantly than the wild type. Similarly, colonization of rice leaves by M. grisea was severely reduced after deletion of the orthologous MgSSD1 gene and attempted infection by the mutants was accompanied by the accumulation of reactive oxygen species within the host cell. These results suggest that appropriate assembly of the fungal cell wall as regulated by SSD1 allows these pathogens to establish infection by avoiding the induction of host defence responses.
17543110	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small, non-coding regulatory RNAs that regulate gene expression by guiding target mRNA cleavage or translational inhibition. So far, identification of miRNAs has been limited to a few model plant species, such as Arabidopsis, rice and Populus, whose genomes have been sequenced. Wheat is one of the most important cereal crops worldwide. To date, only a few conserved miRNAs have been predicted in wheat and the computational identification of wheat miRNAs requires the genome sequence, which is unknown. To identify novel as well as conserved miRNAs in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), we constructed a small RNA library. High throughput sequencing of the library and subsequent analysis revealed the identification of 58 miRNAs, comprising 43 miRNA families. Of these, 35 miRNAs belong to 20 conserved miRNA families. The remaining 23 miRNAs are novel and form 23 miRNA families in wheat; more importantly, 4 of these new miRNAs (miR506, miR510, miR514 and miR516) appear to be monocot-specific. Northern blot analysis indicated that some of the new miRNAs are preferentially expressed in certain tissues. Based on sequence homology, we predicted 46 potential targets. Thus, we have identified a large number of monocot-specific and wheat-specific miRNAs. These results indicate that both conserved and wheat-specific miRNAs play important roles in wheat growth and development, stress responses and other physiological processes. This study led to the discovery of 58 wheat miRNAs comprising 43 miRNA families; 20 of these families are conserved and 23 are novel in wheat. It provides a first large scale cloning and characterization of wheat miRNAs and their predicted targets.
17543330	Overwintering freeze-tolerant larvae of Chilo suppressalis can survive at -25 degrees C, but non-diapausing larvae cannot. We reported earlier that to prevent intracellular freezing, which causes death in overwintering larvae of the Saigoku ecotype distributed in southwestern Japan, water leaves and glycerol enters fat body cells through water channels during freezing. However, it is still unclear how diapause and low-temperature exposure are related to the acquisition of freeze tolerance. We compared the extent of tissue damage, accumulation of glycerol, and transport of glycerol and water in fat body tissues between cold-acclimated and non-acclimated non-diapausing and diapausing larvae. The tissue from cold-acclimated diapausing larvae could survive only when frozen in Grace's insect medium with 0.25 M glycerol at -20 degrees C. The protection provided by glycerol was offset by mercuric chloride, which is a water-channel inhibitor. Fat body tissue isolated from non-acclimated diapausing larvae was injured by freezing even though glycerol was added to the medium, but the level of freezing injury was significantly lower than in non-diapausing larvae. Radiotracer assays in cold-acclimated diapausing larvae showed that during freezing, water left the cells into the medium and glycerol entered the cells from the medium at the same time. Therefore, in Saigoku ecotype larvae of the rice stem borer, both diapause and cold-acclimation are essential to accumulate glycerol and activate aquaporin for the avoidance of freezing injury.
17543450	Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis immobilized on Chromosorb 101 that is a new solid phase extractor has been presented at this work for the preconcentration and separation of cadmium(II), lead(II), manganese(II), chromium(III), nickel(II) and cobalt(II) in environmental samples. The analytical parameters including pH of aqueous solutions, sample volume, eluent types, etc. were investigated for the quantitative recoveries of the analytes. The influences of the some metal ions as concomitant were investigated. Under the optimized conditions, the detection limits by 3sigma for analyte ions were in the range of 0.37-2.85 microg L(-1). The accuracy of the developed procedure was confirmed by IAEA 336 Lichen and NIST SRM 1573a Tomato leaves certified reference materials. The method was also applied successfully to the determination of analytes in microwave digested red wine, rice and canned fish samples and sea water, spring water and urine samples.
17545108	The present study was conducted to ascertain the effect of partial replacement of different defatted oil seed cakes as substrate i.e. sunflower meal, rice hulls and soybean meal, in biosynthesis of Bacitracin in Solid-State Fermentation by Bacillus licheniformis on laboratory scale. In solid-state fermentation, wheat bran, soybean meal, sunflower meal, rice hulls and their different combinations were used. The antibiotic activity was determined at various intervals and recorded 48 hours gave maximum yield, 4375 i.u/gm when only soybean was used. However, maximum titre 4820 i.u / gm of antibiotic were obtained when wheat bran and soybean meal was in ratio of 1:3. The raw material for its production is readily available and cheap such as soybean meal, sunflower meal and wheat bran. Thus development of this technology in our country would result in utilizing our own resources in Pakistan.
17545179	With the recent progress made in large-scale plant functional genome sequencing projects, a great amount of EST (express sequence tag) data is becoming available. With the help of complete genomic sequence information of model plants (rice and Arabidopsis), it is possible to predict the joints between adjacent exons after splicing (or termed 'intron positions' for short) in homologous ESTs of other plants. This would allow developing potential intron polymorphism (PIP) markers in these plants by designing primers in exons flanking the target intron. We have extracted a total of 57,658 PIP markers in 59 plant species and created a web-based database platform named PIP to provide detailed information of these PIP markers and homologous relationships among PIP markers from different species. The platform also provides a function of online designing of PIP markers based on cDNA/EST sequences submitted by users. With evaluations performed in silico, we have found that the intron position prediction is highly reliable and the polymorphism level of PIP markers is high enough for practical need. http://ibi.zju.edu.cn/pgl/pip/. Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
17546073	Yunnan Province is one of the largest centers of genetic diversity of Oryza sativa L. in China, and in the world. Using a genetically representative core collection of 692 rice landraces from Yunnan, the genetic structure, differentiation, and geographic diversity of this rice germplasm were analyzed. The accessions were classified into different populations, according to the model-based structure analysis. Model-based populations were characterized through the reconstruction of a neighbor-joining tree, principal coordinate analysis, and the estimation of morphologic and SSR variations. Finally, the distribution of genetic diversity and differentiation among districts were studied. Seven model-based populations were identified on the basis of the structure analysis. This classification was partly consistent with Ting's 5-level taxonomic system. Differentiation between 2 rice subspecies is the most apparent, with a clearer differentiation between soil-watery ecotypes in japonica than in indica; however, differentiation among seasonal ecotypes in indica is clearer than in japonica. Cropping system and man-made restricted-growth environments could be considered to be the main forces driving the intraspecific differentiation of cultivated rice. It has been suggested that, because it possesses the highest genetic diversity and all the necessary conditions as a center of genetic diversity, the southwest region of Yunnan, encompassing Simao, Lincang, and Xishuangbanna districts, is the center of genetic diversity of Yunnan rice landraces.
17546083	Two hundred and seventy-five accessions of cultivated Asian rice and 44 accessions of AA genome Oryza species were classified into 8 chloroplast (cp) genome types (A-H) based on insertion-deletion events at 3 regions (8K, 57K, and 76K) of the cp genome. The ancestral cp genome type was determined according to the frequency of occurrence in Oryza species and the likely evolution of the variable 57K region of the cp genome. When 2 nucleotide substitutions (AA or TT) were taken into account, these 8 cp types were subdivided into 11 cp types. Most indica cultivars had 1 of 3 cp genome types that were also identified in the wild relatives of rice, O. nivara and O. rufipogon, suggesting that the 3 indica cp types had evolved from distinct gene pools of the O. rufipogon - O. nivara complex. The majority of japonica cultivars had 1 of 3 different cp genome types. One of these 3 was identified in O. rufipogon, suggesting that at least 1 japonica type is derived from O. rufipogon with the same cp genome type. These results provide evidence to support a polyphyletic origin of cultivated Asian rice from at least 4 principal lineages in the O. rufipogon - O. nivara complex.
17547238	Field studies were conducted in a rice, Oryza sativa L., agroecosystem in Mwea Kenya to compare the efficiency of CO2-baited Centers for Disease Control (CDC) light traps against nonbaited CDC light traps and gravid traps against oviposition traps in outdoor collection of Culex quinquefasciatus Say (Diptera: Culicidae) and other mosquitoes. Collectively, 21 mosquito species from the genera Culex, Anopheles, Mansonia, Ficalbia, and Aedes were captured during the 10-wk study period. Cx. quinquefasciatus was the predominant species in all trap types with proportions ranging from 57% in the nonbaited CDC light traps to 95% in the gravid traps. Significantly higher numbers of Cx. quinquefasciatus and Culex annulioris Theobald were collected in the CO2-baited CDC light traps than in the nonbaited CDC light traps, but the numbers of other mosquito species, including malaria vectors Anopheles arabiensis Patton and Anopheles funestus Giles did not differ significantly between the two trap types. More Cx. quinquefasciatus females were collected in grass infusion-baited gravid traps than egg rafts of this species in oviposition traps containing the same infusion. Although most mosquitoes captured in CO,-baited and nonbaited CDC light traps were unfed, most of those collected in gravid traps were gravid. From these findings, it is concluded that at least in the rice-growing area of Mwea Kenya, CO2-baited CDC light traps in conjunction with gravid traps can be used in monitoring of Cx. quinquefasciatus both for control and disease surveillance.
17547659	A defensive role against insect attack has been traditionally attributed to plant protease inhibitors. Here, evidence is described of the potential of a plant protease inhibitor, the potato carboxypeptidase inhibitor (PCI), to provide resistance to fungal pathogens when expressed in rice as a heterologous protein. It is shown that rice plants constitutively expressing the pci gene exhibit resistance against the economically important pathogens Magnaporthe oryzae and Fusarium verticillioides. A M. oryzae carboxypeptidase was purified by affinity chromatography and further characterized by mass spectrometry. This fungal carboxypeptidase was found to be a novel carboxypeptidase B which was fully inhibited by PCI. Overall, the results indicate that PCI exerts its antifungal activity through the inhibition of this particular fungal carboxypeptidase B. Although pci confers protection against fungal pathogens in transgenic rice, a significant cost in insect resistance is observed. Thus, the weight gain of larvae of the specialist insect Chilo suppressalis (striped stem borer) and the polyphagous insect Spodoptera littoralis (Egyptian cotton worm) fed on pci rice is significantly larger than that of insects fed on wild-type plants. Homology-based modelling revealed structural similarities between the predicted structure of the M. oryzae carboxypeptidase B and the crystal structure of insect carboxypeptidases, indicating that PCI may function not only as an inhibitor of fungal carboxypeptidases, but also as an inhibitor of insect carboxypeptidases. The potential impact of the pci gene in terms of protection against fungal and insect diseases is discussed.
17548301	Mapping a target gene is useful to isolate the gene or get molecular marker for molecular marker-assisted selection. This paper summarized the recent studies of gene mapping in rice, including 194 genes. These genes are involved in disease resistance, cold tolerance, drought resistance, sterility, and fertility restoration of rice. The molecular markers that link with these genes were also summarized. Among these genes 14 have been cloned and sequenced. According to the results this paper also analyzed genes distribution rule in chromosomes.
17548309	The moiety of a chimeric gene in mitochondrial genome, orf79 and orfH79, probably related to BT-type and HL-type CMS of rice respectively, has 98% homology and only 4 nucleotide variation in DNA sequence. Of which, the former comes from Oryza sativa L., and the latter originates from Oryza rufipogon Griff. That means the orf79/ orfH79 may widely exist in Oryza species with AA genome. In order to investigate the distribution and difference of orf79/ orfH79 in the Oryza species, 190 cultivated rice accessions (including O. sativa and O. glaberrima) and 104 accessions of AA-genome Oryza wild species (including O. nivara, O. rufipogon, O. barthii, O. longistaminlata, O. glumaepatula, and O. meridion-alis) were detected with PCR amplification. Of which, 31 accessions mainly from AA-genome Oryza species were found to share the special amplified fragment with the control of Yuetai A and Shijin A. The special amplified fragments were all recovered and sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis based on DNA sequences showed that the 31 accessions were fallen into two groups, correspondingly representing HL-type and BT-type cytoplasm group. Further, the results revealed that the HL-type cytoplasm distributed mainly in annual O. nivara, and the BT-type cytoplasm centered in cultivated varieties or perennial O. rufipogon.
17548310	Cytogenetical comparison was made between high seed set restorers TP-4 and D minghui63 and eminent maintainer line D46B of autotetraploid rice. The meiosis observation demonstrated the genomes of our autotetraploid materials were all 2n = 48, the same as those in mitosis observation. Low percentages of univalent and trivalent in metaphase I (MI) of restorers TP-4 and D minghui63 and in metaphase I (MI) of maintainer line D46B of autotetraploid rice were observed. And the percentages of chromosome pairing were all over 99%, showing eminent cytological character. The frequency of TP-4 and D minghui63 in metaphase I (MI) was 2.00/PMC and 2.26/PMC, respectively. However the frequency of D46B was 6.00/PMC, significantly higher than those of TP-4 and D minghui63. It indicated that the maintainer D46B has better chromosome pairing capability in metaphase I (MI). While, the frequency of lagging chromosomes of the maintainer D46B in anaphase I (AI) was 10.62%, significantly lower than that of TP-4 (19.44%) or D minghui63 (23.14%), and it was close to the level of diploid control (7.30%). In telophase I (TI), maintainer D46B exhibited a lower frequency of microkernel, and in telophase II (TII) the frequency of normal quartered microspore of maintainer D46B was not only higher than that of TP-4 or D minghui63 but also than that of diploid control. The percentage of the cell observed chromosome lagging in A1 and the percentage of abnormal cell in TI showed a greatly significant positive correlation. That may demonstrate chromo some separation in anaphase I (AI) and microkernel formation in telophase I (TI) are controlled by the same dominant single gene or the major gene of QTL.
17548315	By using npt-gene as assistant selection-marker, treating Japonica rice Zhonghua 9 [ZH9 (CK)] and transferred lysozyme gene rice (the donor rice is Japonica rice Zhonghua 9) [ZH9(R)] with antibiotics, we built a system of quickly testing transgenic rice offspring. Detached leaves of ZH9(R) and ZH9(CK) were treated by Kanamycin (0, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600 and 700 mg/L) and G418 (0, 40, 60, 80, 100, 150 and 200 mg/L) with different concentrations. The result show effect of Kanamycin is not evident and G418 is the best antibiotics to test transgenic rice with npt- gene. The data showed that 80 mg/L G418 (treating 4 d) was optimal to test transgenic rice. Further study was done with seeds, young embryos and seedlings by G418 testing: the alive seeds were cultured in the culture dishes which filled with a series of G418 solution with different concentration of 0, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300 and 350 mg/L; in the tissue culture room, the germinating embryos were inoculated in the culture medium (1/2 MS+0.5 mg/L 6-BA+1.5% sucrose) which contains G418 with 0, 150, 200, 250 and 300 mg/L concentration; the aseptic seedlings were inoculated in the the same culture medium (1/2 MS+0.5 mg/L 6-BA+1.5% sucrose) which contains G418 with 0, 100, 150, 200 and 250 mg/L concentration. The conclusions indicated that 300 mg/L (treating 7 d) was the critical concentration to test seeds of transgenic rice; 200 mg/L (treating 10 d) was the critical concentration to test young embryo of transgenic rice; 150 mg/L (treating 12 d) was the critical concentration to test seedlings of transgenic rice. Two primers were designed based on npt- and lysozyme gene sequences. PCR technology confirmed the above detection system. The preliminary results showed npt-was tightly linked with lysozyme gene. Above confirmed critical concentrations were applied to test detached leaves, seeds, young embryos and seedlings of transferred generations. The effect was very obvious. It is convenient, intuitionistic, and exact way that aparting the positive plants from the mixture of transgenic positive and negative plants with G418.
17548332	A rice zinc-finger protein gene, RZF71, encoding the C2H2-type zinc-finger transcription factor was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa L. subs. Japonica) by RT-PCR approach. Gene RZF71 encodes a 25 kDa protein with 250 amino acids, which contains two typical C2H2 zinc finger domains. The expression profiling showed that RZF71 was constitutively expressed in roots, culms, leaves, and flowering spikes. The semi-quantitative RT-PCR assay showed RZF71 was strongly induced by high-salinity and 20% PEG6000 treatments, but not regulated by low temperature and ABA (abscisic acid) treatments. Tran-sient expression of the RZF71-GFP protein in onion epidermal cell showed that RZF71 was localized in cell nuclei. These results indicated that the RZF71 may play an important role in rice responses to salt and osmotic stresses as a transcription factor.
17549470	Bacillus subtilis 916 was an effective biocontrol agent in control rice sheath blight caused by Rhizoctonia solani. To further improve its antagonistic ability, low-energy ion implantation was applied in Bs-916. We studied the effects of different doses of N(+) implantation. The optimum dose of ion implantation for the Bs-916 was from 15 x 2.6 x 10(14) N(+)/cm(2) to 25 x 2.6 x 10(14) N(+)/cm(2). The mutant strain designated as Bs-H74 was obtained, which showed higher inhibition activity in the screening plate. Its inhibition zone against the indicator organism increased by 30.7% compared to the parental strain. The control effect of rice sheath blight was improved by 14.6% over that of Bs-916. Thin-layer chromatography and high-performance liquid chromatography analysis indicated that lipopeptides produced by Bs-916 and the mutant strains belonged to the surfactin family. Bs-H74 produced approximately 3.0-fold surfactin compared to that of Bs-916. To determine the role of surfactin in biocontrol by Bs-916, we tested another mutant strain, Bs-M49, which produced lower levels of surfactin significantly, and found that Bs-M49 had no obvious effects against R. solani. These results suggested that the surfactin produced by Bs-916 plays an important role in the suppression of sheath blight. These observations also showed that the Bs-H74 mutant strain is a better biocontrol agent than the parental strain.
17549514	Partial abortion of female gametes and the resulting semi-sterility of indica x japonica inter-subspecific rice hybrids have been ascribed to an allelic interaction, which can be avoided by the use of wide compatibility varieties. To further understand the genetic mechanism of hybrid sterility, we have constructed two sets of hybrids, using as male parent either the typical japonica variety Asominori, or the wide compatibility variety 02428; and as female, a set of 66 chromosome segment substitution lines in which various chromosomal segments from the indica variety IR24 have been introduced into a common genetic background of Asominori. Spikelet semi-sterility was observed in hybrid between CSSL34 and Asominori, which is known to carry the sterility gene S31 (Zhao et al. in Euphytica 151:331-337, 2006). Cytological analysis revealed that the semi-sterility of the CSSL34 x Asominori hybrid was caused primarily by partial abortion of the embryo sac at the stage of the mitosis of the functional megaspore. A population of 1,630 progeny of the three-way cross (CSSL34 x 02428) x Asominori was developed to map S31. Based on the physical location of linked molecular markers, S31 was thereby delimited to a 54-kb region on rice chromsome 5. This fragment contains eight predicted open reading frames, four of which encode known proteins and four putative proteins. These results are relevant to the map-based cloning of S31, and the development of marker-assisted transfer of non-sterility allele inducing alleles to breeding germplasm, to allow for a more efficient exploitation of heterosis in hybrid rice.
17549515	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) plant is sensitive to chilling, particularly at early stages of seedling development. Here a novel cold-inducible gene, designated OsCOIN (Oryza sativa cold-inducible), was isolated and characterized. Results showed that OsCOIN protein, a RING finger protein, was localized in both nuclear and cytoplasm membrane. OsCOIN is expressed in all rice organs and strongly induced by low temperature, ABA, salt and drought. Over-expression of OsCOIN in transgenic rice lines significantly enhanced their tolerance to cold, salt and drought, accompanied by an up-regulation of OsP5CS expression and an increase of cellular proline level.
17550468	To identify risk factors for Schistosoma mansoni and hookworm infections in urban farming communities, and to investigate small-scale spatial patterns of infection prevalence. A cross-sectional survey was carried out in 113 farming households (586 individuals) and 21 non-farming households (130 individuals) from six agricultural zones in the town of Man, western Cte d'Ivoire. Heads of households were interviewed on common agricultural activities, land and water use, education attainment, socioeconomic status and sanitation facilities. Household members provided stool specimens that were processed by the Kato-Katz technique and a formol-ether concentration method and diagnosed for S. mansoni, hookworms and other soil-transmitted helminths and intestinal protozoa. Bayesian statistics were employed for spatial analyses. The prevalences of S. mansoni and hookworm in farming households were 51.4% and 24.7%, respectively. Risk factors for a S. mansoni infection comprised living in close proximity to the K River, water contact with irrigation wells and ponds and low education attainment. Living in zones of smallholder irrigated rice plots or large rice perimeters, using water from domestic wells, and low socioeconomic status were risk factors for a hookworm infection. We found significant spatial heterogeneity between agricultural zones, with the highest infection prevalences of S. mansoni and hookworm in the zone where there was a large rice perimeter. In this urban setting, both S. mansoni and hookworm infections were related to specific agricultural activities. Health education and active participation of urban farmers for the control of schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminthiasis is recommended.
17550620	We examined algorithms for malaria mapping using the impact of reflectance calibration uncertainties on the accuracies of three vegetation indices (VI)'s derived from QuickBird data in three rice agro-village complexes Mwea, Kenya. We also generated inferential statistics from field sampled vegetation covariates for identifying riceland Anopheles arabiensis during the crop season. All aquatic habitats in the study sites were stratified based on levels of rice stages; flooded, land preparation, post-transplanting, tillering, flowering/maturation and post-harvest/fallow. A set of uncertainty propagation equations were designed to model the propagation of calibration uncertainties using the red channel (band 3: 0.63 to 0.69 microm) and the near infra-red (NIR) channel (band 4: 0.76 to 0.90 microm) to generate the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) and the Soil Adjusted Vegetation Index (SAVI). The Atmospheric Resistant Vegetation Index (ARVI) was also evaluated incorporating the QuickBird blue band (Band 1: 0.45 to 0.52 microm) to normalize atmospheric effects. In order to determine local clustering of riceland habitats Gi*(d) statistics were generated from the ground-based and remotely-sensed ecological databases. Additionally, all riceland habitats were visually examined using the spectral reflectance of vegetation land cover for identification of highly productive riceland Anopheles oviposition sites. The resultant VI uncertainties did not vary from surface reflectance or atmospheric conditions. Logistic regression analyses of all field sampled covariates revealed emergent vegetation was negatively associated with mosquito larvae at the three study sites. In addition, floating vegetation (-ve) was significantly associated with immature mosquitoes in Rurumi and Kiuria (-ve); while, turbidity was also important in Kiuria. All spatial models exhibit positive autocorrelation; similar numbers of log-counts tend to cluster in geographic space. The spectral reflectance from riceland habitats, examined using the remote and field stratification, revealed post-transplanting and tillering rice stages were most frequently associated with high larval abundance and distribution. NDVI, SAVI and ARVI generated from QuickBird data and field sampled vegetation covariates modeled cannot identify highly productive riceland An. arabiensis aquatic habitats. However, combining spectral reflectance of riceland habitats from QuickBird and field sampled data can develop and implement an Integrated Vector Management (IVM) program based on larval productivity.
17550764	A recent study has revealed a novel feature of the symbiosis between a bacterium and a fungal pathogen. In addition to producing a pathogenic toxin, the endosymbiont of the rice pathogen Rhizopus microsporus controls the ability of the fungus to form sporangia and spores.
17551030	A strictly aerobic, non-spore-forming, Gram-negative bacterium, designated strain HW7(T), was isolated from a rice field in Korea. Cells of strain HW7(T) were short rod-shaped and motile with single polar flagella. The major cellular fatty acids of strain HW7(T) were C(16 : 0) and summed feature 3 (C(16 : 1)omega7c and/or iso-C(15 : 0) 2-OH). The genomic DNA G+C content was 56 mol% and the major isoprenoid quinone was Q-8. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain HW7(T) forms a distinct lineage with respect to closely related genera within the class Betaproteobacteria and that the levels of 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with respect to the type species of related genera are less than 93 %. On the basis of the physiological and phylogenetic data, strain HW7(T) represents a novel genus and species of the Betaproteobacteria, for which the name Leeia oryzae gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is HW7(T) (=KCTC 12585(T)=DSM 17879(T)).
17551054	Strain Jip14(T), a Gram-negative, non-spore-forming, rod-shaped, non-motile bacterium, was isolated from dried rice straw and characterized in order to determine its taxonomic position. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis revealed that strain Jip14(T) belongs to the family Sphingobacteriaceae, and the highest degree of sequence similarity was determined to be to Pedobacter saltans DSM 12145(T) (88.5 %), Pedobacter africanus DSM 12126(T) (87.6 %), Pedobacter heparinus DSM 2366(T) (87.1 %) and Pedobacter caeni LMG 22862(T) (86.9 %). Chemotaxonomic data revealed that strain Jip14(T) possesses menaquinone MK-7 and the predominant fatty acids C(15 : 0) iso, C(16 : 0), C(16 : 0) 10-methyl, C(17 : 0) iso 3-OH and summed feature 3 (C(15 : 0) iso 2-OH/C(16 : 1)omega7c). The results of physiological and biochemical tests clearly demonstrated that strain Jip14(T) represents a distinct species. Based on these data, Jip14(T) should be classified within a novel genus and species, for which the name Parapedobacter koreensis gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of Parapedobacter koreensis is Jip14(T) (=KCTC 12643(T)=LMG 23493(T)).
17551209	Two new cyclic lipopeptides, fusaristatins A (1) and B (2) were isolated from rice cultures of a Fusarium sp. YG-45 in the course of a screening of endophytic fungi. Their structures of 1 and 2 were determined by spectroscopic methods. 2 showed a moderate inhibitory effect on topoisomerases I (IC50: 73 microM) and II (IC50: 98 microM) without cleavable complexes. Furthermore, 1 and 2 showed the growth-inhibitory activity toward lung cancer cells LU 65 with IC50 values of 23 and 7 microM, respectively.
17552210	Crop grain quality is mainly depended on variety's genetic characteristics and environmental conditions, while elevated CO2 concentration in atmosphere, one of the main factors resulting in global climate change, would have a significant effect on crop grain quality. In this paper, the research progress on the effects of CO2 enrichment on rice and wheat grain quality was summarized from the aspects of protein and nitrogen contents, trace elements, and other characters, emphasized the necessity and urgency of the study in this field, and pointed out the key directions and contents of further study, i.e., (a) direct effects of CO2 enrichment on rice and wheat grain quality and their differences for different varieties, (b) integrated effects of CO2 enrichment and other climate factors on rice and wheat grain quality and their quantitative indices, (c) action mechanisms of CO2 enrichment and other climate factors on rice and wheat grain quality formation, (d) longterm directions and strategies of rice and wheat breeding in quality improvement to adapt climate change, (e) integrated planting technology systems in quality improvement for adapting climate change, and (f) application of molecule-marker and gene-transfer in rice and wheat breeding for quality improvement.
17552221	A gacA homologue, designated gacA(Xooc), was cloned from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xooc), a bacterium that causes leaf streak of rice, with degenerated primers by polymerase amplification reaction (PCR). NCBI blast search indicated that GacA(Xooc) had a similar structure to that of other GacA proteins, and had a CheB (Chemotaxis response regulator containing a CheY-like receiver domain)domain. Sequence comparison showed that the gacA(Xooc) was conserved in the Xanthomonas genus. Homology search revealed that the gacA(Xooc) was 99.7% similarities to gacA (AY870457, this lab) of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). A gacA(Xooc), disruption mutant was successfully generated by a single cross-over event, and confirmed by PCR and Southern blot. But the mutant still had strong pathogenicity,and its virulence was not obviously different from that of wild type strain. The gacA did not globally regulate metabolism in Xooc, which was different from DC3000 of P. syringae pv. tomato, CHAO of P. fluorescens and IC1270 of Serratia plymuthica. Chemotaxis to 0.1% tryptone of the mutants was reduced compared to wild type strain. The results suggest that gacA(X00c) is involved chemotaxis of Xooc. Nevertheless, how gacA to regulate chemotaxis of Xooc, transcription and expression of genes involved in regulation still need to be further studied.
17552760	The dynamics of the isotopic scrambling in the energized and metastable complex D2O-H3O+ has been studied using classical molecular dynamics (MD) trajectories starting from regions of phase space corresponding to an already formed collisional complex. The simulations cover the range of internal energies spanned by gas phase collision experiments. Rate constants for the isotopic exchange and the complex dissociation have been computed; the isotopic branching ratio R=[HD2O+]/[H2DO+] has also been obtained from MD simulations and found to deviate substantially from an equivalent prediction based on a previously proposed kinetic scheme. This finding suggests the possibility that details of the reaction dynamics play a role in defining the isotopic branching ratio. The analysis of trajectory results indicated a relatively long lifetime for the collisional complex and the presence of multiple time scales for the exchange process, with a large fraction of the exchange events being separated only by a single oxygen-oxygen vibration or half of it. The occurrence of these fast consecutive jumps and their different probabilities as a function of the relative direction between first and second jumps suggest the presence of ballistic motion in the complex following each reactive event. This can be explained on the basis of overlapping regions in phase space and it is used to provide an explanation of the difference between kinetic and MD branching ratios.
17552765	Ab initio CCSD(T) calculations of intermediates and transition states on the singlet and triplet C3H2 potential energy surfaces extrapolated to the complete basis set limit are combined with statistical computations of energy-dependent rate constants of the C(3P)+C2H2 reaction under crossed molecular beam conditions. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory is applied for isomerization and dissociation steps within the same multiplicity and radiationless transition and nonadiabatic transition state theories are used for singlet-triplet intersystem crossing rates. The calculated rate constants are utilized to predict product branching ratios. The results demonstrate that, in qualitative agreement with available experimental data, c-C3H+H and C3+H2 are the most probable products at low collision energies, whereas l-C3H+H becomes dominant at higher Ec above approximately 25 kJ/mol.
17555231	In Europe, regulatory thresholds restrict adventitious GM (genetically modified) presence in conventional crops. Minimum distances for the spatial separation of fields are often recommended to reduce field-to-field cross-pollination to an acceptable level. Field trials are typically the basis for setting separation distances. However, using records of wind direction and speed from weather stations across Europe, we predict theoretically that field-to-field windborne cross-pollination in maize, oilseed rape, sugar beet, and rice varies greatly according to the relative orientation of the GM and non-GM fields. Furthermore, at a given site and orientation from a GM field, we predict that the cross-pollination rate varies substantially from year to year. Consequently, even replicated field trials may inaccurately estimate typical levels of cross-pollination and therefore distort our perception of the separation distances required to achieve sub-threshold adventitious GM presence. We propose methods to predict the likely range in levels of cross-pollination based on the limited data typically available from field trials. Additionally, we suggest suitable time lags between peak flowering in adjacent fields that could be introduced to reduce cross-pollination to a specified level.
17555605	Individuals in the same species are assumed to share the same genomic set. However, it is not unusual to find an orthologous gene only in small subset of the species, and recent genomic studies suggest that structural rearrangements are very frequent between genomes in the same species. Two recently sequenced rice genomes Oryza sativa L. var. Nipponbare and O. sativa L. var. 93-11 provide an opportunity to systematically investigate the extent of the gene repertoire polymorphism, even though the genomic data of 93-11 derived from whole-short-gun sequencing is not yet as complete as that of Nipponbare. We compared gene contents and the genomic locations between two rice genomes. Our conservative estimates suggest that at least 10% of the genes in the genomes were either under presence/absence polymorphism (5.2%) or asymmetrically located between genomes (4.7%). The proportion of these "asymmetric genes" varied largely among gene groups, in which disease resistance (R) genes and the RLK kinase gene group had 11.6 and 7.8 times higher proportion of asymmetric genes than housekeeping genes (Myb and MADS). The significant difference in the proportion of asymmetric genes among gene groups suggests that natural selection is responsible for maintaining genomic asymmetry. On the other hand, the nucleotide diversity in 17 R genes under presence/absence polymorphism was generally low (average nucleotide diversity = 0.0051). The genomic symmetry was disrupted by 10% of asymmetric genes, which could cause genetic variation through more unequal crossing over, because these genes had no allelic counterparts to pair and then they were free to pair with homologues at non-allelic loci, during meiosis in heterozygotes. It might be a consequence of diversifying selection that increased the structural divergence among genomes, and of purifying selection that decreased nucleotide divergence in each R gene locus.
17556050	We have developed a comprehensive method combining analytical techniques of one-dimensional (1D) and two-dimensional (GC x GC) gas chromatography-time-of-flight (TOF)-mass spectrometry. This method was applied to the metabolic phenotyping of natural variants in rice for the 68 world rice core collection (WRC) and two other varieties. Ten metabolites were selected as metabolite representatives, and the selected ion current of each metabolite peak obtained from both techniques were statistically compared. Our method of combining 1D- and GC x GC-TOF/MS is useful for the metabolic phenotyping of natural variants in rice for further studies in breeding programs.
17556504	In angiosperms, the stigma provides initial nutrients and guidance cues for pollen grain germination and tube growth. However, little is known about the genes that regulate these processes in rice (Oryza sativa). Here, we generate rice stigma-specific or -preferential gene expression profiles through comparing genome-wide expression patterns of hand-dissected, unpollinated stigma at anthesis with seven tissues, including seedling shoot, seedling root, mature anther, ovary at anthesis, seeds 5 d after pollination, 10-d-old embryo, 10-d-old endosperm, and suspension-cultured cells by using both 57 K Affymetrix rice whole-genome array and 10 K rice cDNA microarray. A high reproducibility of the microarray results was detected between the two different technology platforms. In total, we identified 548 genes to be expressed specifically or predominantly in the stigma papillar cells of rice. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of 34 selected genes all confirmed their stigma-specific expression. The expression of five selected genes was further validated by RNA in situ hybridization. Gene Ontology analysis shows that several auxin-signaling components, transcription, and stress-related genes are significantly overrepresented in the rice stigma gene set. Interestingly, most of them also share several cis-regulatory elements with known stress-responsive genes, supporting the notion of an overlap of genetic programs regulating pollination and stress/defense responses. We also found that genes involved in cell wall metabolism and cellular communication appear to be conserved in the stigma between rice and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Our results indicate that the stigmas appear to have conserved and novel molecular functions between rice and Arabidopsis.
17556508	Core DNA replication proteins mediate the initiation, elongation, and Okazaki fragment maturation functions of DNA replication. Although this process is generally conserved in eukaryotes, important differences in the molecular architecture of the DNA replication machine and the function of individual subunits have been reported in various model systems. We have combined genome-wide bioinformatic analyses of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) with published experimental data to provide a comprehensive view of the core DNA replication machinery in plants. Many components identified in this analysis have not been studied previously in plant systems, including the GINS (go ichi ni san) complex (PSF1, PSF2, PSF3, and SLD5), MCM8, MCM9, MCM10, NOC3, POLA2, POLA3, POLA4, POLD3, POLD4, and RNASEH2. Our results indicate that the core DNA replication machinery from plants is more similar to vertebrates than single-celled yeasts (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), suggesting that animal models may be more relevant to plant systems. However, we also uncovered some important differences between plants and vertebrate machinery. For example, we did not identify geminin or RNASEH1 genes in plants. Our analyses also indicate that plants may be unique among eukaryotes in that they have multiple copies of numerous core DNA replication genes. This finding raises the question of whether specialized functions have evolved in some cases. This analysis establishes that the core DNA replication machinery is highly conserved across plant species and displays many features in common with other eukaryotes and some characteristics that are unique to plants.
17556529	Although copia retrotransposons are major components of all plant genomes, the evolutionary relationships between individual copia families and between elements from different plant species are only poorly studied. We used 20 copia families from the large-genome plants barley and wheat to identify 46 families of homologous copia elements from rice and 22 from Arabidopsis, two plant species with much smaller genomes. In total, 599 copia elements were analyzed. Phylogenetic analysis showed that copia elements from the four species can be classified into six ancient lineages that existed before the divergence of monocots and dicots. The six lineages show a surprising degree of conservation in sequence organization and other characteristics across species. Additionally, the phylogenetic data suggest at least one case of horizontal gene transfer between the Arabidopsis and rice lineages. Insertion time estimates for 522 high-copy elements showed that retrotransposons from rice were active at different times in waves of activity lasting 0.5-2 million years, depending on the family, whereas elements from wheat and barley had longer periods of activity. We estimated that half of the rice copia elements are truncated or otherwise rearranged after approximately 790,000 yr, which is almost twice the half-life of Arabidopsis elements. In contrast, wheat and barley copia elements appear to have a massively longer half-life, beyond our ability to estimate from the available data. These findings suggest that genome size can be explained by the specific rate of DNA removal from the genome and the length of active periods of retrotransposon families.
17556602	The effects of rice growth environment on malaria transmission, taking into account spatial correlation, were assessed in the Office du Niger, Mali. Between April 1999 to January 2001, 8 quarterly entomologic surveys were conducted in 18 villages in 3 agricultural zones. Vector densities in sleeping houses were related to rice crop, rice development stages, vegetation abundance, water state, and seasons. They were high throughout the rice-growing seasons, increased as the rice crop developed, and decreased as vegetation became abundant. They also showed large spatial correlations (up to 30.6 km). The vectorial capacity exhibited both seasonal and village-to-village variation. Parity and the human blood index were weakly related to adult densities and showed low spatial correlations (up to 3.4 km), which suggested that small area variation in malaria transmission results mainly from variations in vector-human contact. Control strategies in rice cultivation areas should pay attention to this local variation.
17556692	Previous studies of patients with type 2 diabetes showed that cinnamon lowers fasting serum glucose, triacylglycerol, and LDL- and total cholesterol concentrations. We aimed to study the effect of cinnamon on the rate of gastric emptying, the postprandial blood glucose response, and satiety in healthy subjects. The gastric emptying rate (GER) was measured by using standardized real-time ultrasonography. Fourteen healthy subjects were assessed by using a crossover trial. The subjects were examined after an 8-h fast if they had normal fasting blood glucose concentrations. GER was calculated as the percentage change in the antral cross-sectional area 15-90 min after ingestion of 300 g rice pudding (GER1) or 300 g rice pudding and 6 g cinnamon (GER2). The median value of GER1 was 37%, and that of GER2 was 34.5%. The addition of cinnamon to the rice pudding significantly delayed gastric emptying and lowered the postprandial glucose response (P < 0.05 for both). The reduction in the postprandial blood glucose concentration was much more noticeable and pronounced than was the lowering of the GER. The effect of cinnamon on satiety was not significant. The intake of 6 g cinnamon with rice pudding reduces postprandial blood glucose and delays gastric emptying without affecting satiety. Inclusion of cinnamon in the diet lowers the postprandial glucose response, a change that is at least partially explained by a delayed GER.
17556768	Cytoplasmic male sterile (CMS) rice Zhenshan 97A (ZS97A) has been widely used in hybrid rice production in China. However, ZS97A suffers from serious panicle enclosure, which blocks normal pollination and greatly reduces seed production of hybrid rice. Little is known about the cause of panicle closure in ZS97A. In this study, it was found that the occurrence of cytoplasmic male sterility caused a deficiency of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in ZS97A panicles, and less IAA was provided to the uppermost internode (UI). Further, it was found that the decreased panicle-derived IAA caused a gibberellin A(1) (GA(1)) deficiency in the UI by the down-regulation of OsGA3ox2 transcript level. Reduced GA(1) level in the UI led to decreases of both cell number and cell elongation, resulting in a shortened UI. The shortened UI was unable to push the panicle out of the flag leaf sheath that remained normal, which resulted in panicle enclosure in ZS97A. These findings suggest that decreased panicle-derived IAA reduces the GA(1) level in the UI, causing panicle enclosure in CMS rice ZS97A.
17556811	In order to explore the relationship between grain yield and photosynthesis, the yield composition and leaf photosynthetic rate in some super hybrid rices and ordinary hybrid rice 'Shanyou 63' as control were measured in 2000-2005. The results were as follows. (1) The yield levels of the four super hybrid rices, 'Pei'ai 64S/E32', 'P88S/0293', 'Jin23A/611' and 'GD-1S/RB207', were significantly higher, being 108%-120% of 'Shanyou 63'. (2) These super hybrid rices had a better plant type with more erect upper layer leaves and bigger panicles or more spikelets per panicle, being 125%-177% of spikelets Shanyou 63 spikelets. (3) Net photosynthetic rates of these super hybrid rices were significantly higher in the second leaf but not necessarily in the first leaf or flag leaf than those of spikelets Shanyou 63 spikelets. (4) The removal of half flag leaf led to a decline in the seed-setting rate, while the removal of half panicle induced its increase in spikelets GD-1S/RB207 spikelets. Hence, higher yield in these super hybrid rices can be attributed to their bigger panicles, better plant type and higher light use efficiency of their canopies. Raising the photosynthetic capacity of each leaf, especially flag leaf, is the key to overcome the photosynthate-source restriction on grain yield and to make a new breakthrough of yield potential in future breeding of super hybrid rice.
17556813	To use different types of promoters in transgenic rice research, the 1.1 kb 5'-upstream regulation region of one of the tomato (Solanum tuberosum L.) Rubisco small subunit gene, rbcS3A, was cloned and its sequences were confirmed by comparison with the known sequences in GenBank. The cloned rbcS3A promoter was fused to the 5'-upstream of GUS (beta-glucuronidase) coding region in a binary vector, and introduced into an elite japonica rice variety by Agrogacterium-mediated transformation. The integration of the GUS fusion gene into the genome of transgenic rice was confirmed by both PCR and Southern blot analysis. The results of both histochemical staining and quantitative analysis of GUS activity showed that the expression level of GUS fusion gene was significantly stronger in stem, leaf blade and sheath than in other organs of transgenic rice plants, and showed highest in the stem, which implies that the tomato rbcS3A promoter can make tissue-specific, in particular in the stem, expression of foreign genes in transgenic rice. The results present here also demonstrate that light induction had no effect on the expression of the foreign gene when regulated by the tomato rbcS3A promoter in transgenic rice. Our results show that the cloned tomato rbcS3A promoter might be very useful for the expression of target genes in transgenic rice, with particularly high efficiency in stem tissues.
17557091
17557329	Reversible protein phosphorylation by protein kinases and phosphatases is a ubiquitous signaling mechanism in all eukaryotic cells. A multilevel hidden Markov model library is presented which is able to classify protein kinases into one of 12 families, with a misclassification rate of zero on the characterized kinomes of H. sapiens, M. musculus, D. melanogaster, C. elegans, S. cerevisiae, D. discoideum, and P. falciparum. The Library is shown to outperform BLASTP and a general Pfam hidden Markov model of the kinase catalytic domain in the retrieval and family-level classification of protein kinases. The application of the Library to the 38 unclassified kinases of yeast enriches the yeast kinome in protein kinases of the families AGC (5), CAMK (17), CMGC (4), and STE (1), thereby raising the family-level classification of yeast conventional protein kinases from 66.96 to 90.43%. The application of the Library to 21 eukaryotic genomes shows seven families (AGC, CAMK, CK1, CMGC, STE, PIKK, and RIO) to be present in all genomes analyzed, and so is likely to be essential to eukaryotes. Putative tyrosine kinases (TKs) are found in the plants A. thaliana (2), O. sativa ssp. Indica (6), and O. sativa ssp. Japonica (7), and in the amoeba E. histolytica (7). To our knowledge, TKs have not been predicted in plants before. This also suggests that a primitive set of TKs might have predated the radiation of eukaryotes. Putative tyrosine kinase-like kinases (TKLs) are found in the fungi C. neoformans (2), P. chrysosporium (4), in the Apicomplexans C. hominis (4), P. yoelii (4), and P. falciparum (6), the amoeba E. histolytica (109), and the alga T. pseudonana (6). TKLs are found to be abundant in plants (776 in A. thaliana, 1010 in O. sativa ssp. Indica, and 969 in O. sativa ssp. Japonica). TKLs might have predated the radiation of eukaryotes too and have been lost secondarily from some fungi. The application of the Library facilitates the annotation of kinomes and has provided novel insights on the early evolution and subsequent adaptations of the various protein kinase families in eukaryotes.
17557855	Burkholderia glumae is an emerging rice pathogen in several areas around the world. Closely related Burkholderia species are important opportunistic human pathogens for specific groups of patients, such as patients with cystic fibrosis and patients with chronic granulomatous disease. Here we report that the first clinical isolate of B. glumae, strain AU6208, has retained its capability to be very pathogenic to rice. As previously reported for rice isolate B. glumae BGR1 (and also for the clinical isolate AU6208), TofI or TofR acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) quorum sensing played a pivotal role in rice virulence. We report that AHL quorum sensing in B. glumae AU6208 regulates secreted LipA lipase and toxoflavin, the phytotoxin produced by B. glumae. B. glumae AU6208 lipA mutants were no longer pathogenic to rice, indicating that the lipase is an important virulence factor. It was also established that type strain B. glumae ATCC 33617 did not produce toxoflavin and lipase and was nonpathogenic to rice. It was determined that in strain ATCC 33617 the LuxR family quorum-sensing sensor/regulator TofR was inactive. Introducing the tofR gene of B. glumae AU6208 in strain ATCC 33617 restored its ability to produce toxoflavin and the LipA lipase. This study extends the role of AHL quorum sensing in rice pathogenicity through the regulation of a lipase which was demonstrated to be a virulence factor. It is the first report of a clinical B. glumae isolate retaining strong rice pathogenicity and finally determined that B. glumae can undergo phenotypic conversion through a spontaneous mutation in the tofR regulator.
17558543	The female gamete, the egg cell, is a specially differentiated haploid cell that develops into an embryo following fertilization. In the present study, we analyzed egg cell lysates by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and subsequent mass spectrometry-based proteomics technology and identified the major proteins expressed in rice egg cells. The proteins identified included glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, ascorbate peroxidase and heat shock protein 90. The abundant existence of chaperons and antioxidant enzymes in plant egg cells indicates that the major protein components of plant egg cells are partly analogous to those of mammalian eggs and oocytes.
17558728	Food formulations suitable as dietary supplements to diabetic subjects based on wheat, decorticated finger millet, popped (aralu) and expanded (puri) rice each blended separately with legumes, non-fat dry milk, vegetable oils, spices and a few hypoglycemic ingredients were formulated. The formulations contained 13.0-18.3% protein, 11.3-11.8% fat, 59.9-67.5% starch and 13.2-18.0% dietary fiber. A 50-g equivalent carbohydrate portion of the foods in the form of thick porridge was provided to eight healthy adult subjects and the postprandial blood glucose response was determined. The Glycemic Index (GI) values were 55.4+/-9, 93.4+/-7, 105+/-6 and 109+/-8 for wheat-based, millet-based, aralu-based and puri-based formulations. The variations in the GI could be attributed to the nature of available as well as non-available (non-starchy polysaccharides) carbohydrates in the foods besides the processing undergone by the cereal ingredients. The higher GI of rice formulations could be due to the easily digestible nature of starches and also their lower dietary fiber contents. The study revealed the suitability of wheat-based formulation as a food supplement or as meal replacer in diabetic subjects but the unsuitability of rice-based formulations.
17559513	Rice EL5 is an ATL family gene characterized by a transmembrane domain at the N-terminal and a RING-H2 finger domain (RFD), which exhibits ubiquitin ligase (E3) activity. To elucidate the physiological roles of EL5, we analyzed transgenic rice plants overexpressing mutant EL5 proteins that are impaired in E3 activity to various degrees. Plants expressing EL5C153A and EL5W165A, which encode an inactive E3, showed a rootless phenotype accompanied by cell death in root primordia, and those expressing EL5V162A, with moderately impaired E3 activity, formed short crown roots with necrotic lateral roots. The dominant-negative phenotype was specifically observed in root meristems where EL5 is expressed, and not recovered by exogenous auxin. When wild-type EL5 was transcriptionally overexpressed, the EL5 protein was barely detected by Western blotting. Neither treatment with a proteasome inhibitor nor mutation of the sole lysine residue, a potential target of ubiquitination, resulted in increased EL5 accumulation, whereas mutations in the RFD led to increased EL5 accumulation. The stabilized EL5 without the RFD was localized in the plasma membrane. Deletion of the transmembrane domain prevented the EL5 from localizing in the membrane and from exerting an inhibitory effect on root formation. Deletion of the C-terminal region also neutralized the negative effect. We concluded that EL5 plays a major role as a membrane-anchored E3 for the maintenance of cell viability after the initiation of root primordial formation. In addition, we propose that EL5 is an unstable protein, of which degradation is regulated by the RFD in a proteasome-independent manner.
17559517	Iron (Fe) deficiency is a major abiotic stress in crop production. Although responses to Fe deficiency in graminaceous plants, such as increased production and secretion of mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs), have been described, the gene regulation mechanisms related to these responses are largely unknown. To elucidate the regulation mechanisms of the genes related to Fe acquisition in graminaceous plants, we characterized the Fe-deficiency-inducible basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor OsIRO2 in rice. In yeast cells, OsIRO2 functioned as a transcriptional activator. In rice, overexpression of OsIRO2 resulted in increased MAs secretion, whereas repression of OsIRO2 resulted in lower MAs secretion and hypersensitivity to Fe deficiency. Northern blots revealed that the expression of the genes involved in the Fe(III)-MAs transport system was dependent on OsIRO2. The expression of the genes for nicotianamine synthase, a key enzyme in MAs synthesis, was notably affected by the level of OsIRO2 expression. Microarray analysis demonstrated that OsIRO2 regulates 59 Fe-deficiency-induced genes in roots. Some of these genes, including two transcription factors upregulated by Fe deficiency, possessed the OsIRO2 binding sequence in their upstream regions. OsIRO2 possesses a homologous sequence of the Fe-deficiency-responsive cis-acting elements (IDEs) in its upstream region. We propose a novel gene regulation network for Fe-deficiency responses, including OsIRO2, IDEs and the two transcription factors.
17559651	Quantitative reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) has been demonstrated to be particularly suitable for the analysis of weakly expressed genes, such as those encoding transcription factors. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important crop and the most advanced model for monocotyledonous species; its nuclear genome has been sequenced and molecular tools are being developed for functional analyses. However, high-throughput methods for rice research are still limited and a large-scale qRT-PCR platform for gene expression analyses has not been reported. We established a qRT-PCR platform enabling the multi-parallel determination of the expression levels of more than 2500 rice transcription factor genes. Additionally, using different rice cultivars, tissues and physiological conditions, we evaluated the expression stability of seven reference genes. We demonstrate this resource allows specific and reliable detection of the expression of transcription factor genes in rice. Multi-parallel qRT-PCR allows the versatile and sensitive transcriptome profiling of large numbers of rice transcription factor genes. The new platform complements existing microarray-based expression profiling techniques, by allowing the analysis of lowly expressed transcription factor genes to determine their involvement in developmental or physiological processes. We expect that this resource will be of broad utility to the scientific community in the further development of rice as an important model for plant science.
17560383	A cholinesterase (ChE)-based dipstick-type assay for the class-specific detection of organophosphate (OP) and carbamate (CM) pesticides was developed. The principle of the assay is based on inhibition of the activity of a ChE by these two families of pesticides, which is dependent on the concentration of pesticides. The proposed assay system is composed of a test strip with an acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-coated membrane and an enzyme substrate solution. The assay protocol involves incubation of the enzyme-coated strip in the pesticide-containing sample solution followed by incubation of the sample-treated strip in a chromogenic enzyme substrate solution. The color intensity is estimated by the naked eye or a reflectometer. Of the membranes tested as the enzyme support, Hybond N+ was the most suitable. Among the compounds tested as the enzyme substrate, indophenyl acetate was the best. The detectable concentration range of the dipstick assay for the OP and CM pesticides was 10(-6)-10(2) and 10(-6)-10(0) microg mL(-1), respectively. The sensitivity of the dipstick assay to the oxidized form of parathion (paraoxon) was higher than to parathion. The strip showed a large matrix effect with pesticide-spiked lettuce samples, whereas it showed a small matrix effect with pesticide-spiked rice samples.
17560528	Grain cooking and nutrient qualities are the most important components of rice (Oryza sativa L.) quality. A doubled haploid (DH) population from a cross between two japonica cultivars was used to examine the phenotypic values and potential QTLs for the quality traits. The cooking and nutrient quality traits, including the amylose content (AC), the gel consistency (GC), the gelatinization temperature (GT), and the protein content (PC), in rice grown under upland and lowland environments were evaluated. Significant differences for AC, GC, GT, and PC between upland and lowland environments were detected. The phenotypic values of all four traits were higher under upland environment than lowland environment. The value of PC under upland environment was significantly higher (by 37.9%) than that under lowland environment. This suggests that upland cultivation had large effect on both cooking and nutrient qualities. A total of seven QTLs and twelve pairs of QTLs were detected to have significant additive and epistatic effects for the four traits. Significant Q x E interaction effects of two QTLs and two pairs of QTLs were also discovered. The general contribution of additive QTLs ranged from 1.91% to 19.77%. The Q x E interactions of QTLs QGt3 and QAc6 accounted for 8.99% and 47.86% of the phenotypic variation, respectively, whereas those of the 2 pairs of epistatic QTLs, QAc6-QAc11b and QAc8-QAc9, accounted for 32.54% and 11.82%, respectively. Five QTLs QGt6b, QGt8, QGt11, QGc1, and QPc2, which had relatively high general contribution and no Q x E interactions, were selected to facilitate the upland rice grain quality breeding.
17560530	The distribution of repetitive DNAs along chromosomes is one of the crucial elements for understanding the organization and the evolution of plant genomes. Using a modified genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) procedure, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with genomic DNA to their own chromosomes (called self-genomic in situ hybridization, self-GISH) was carried out in six selected plant species with different genome size and amount of repetitive DNA. Nonuniform distribution of the fluorescent labeled probe DNA was observed on the chromosomes of all the species that were tested. The signal patterns varied among species and were related to the genome size. The chromosomes of the small Arabidopsis genome were labeled almost only in the pericentromeric regions and the nucleolus organizer regions (NORs). The signals in the relatively small genomes, rice, sorghum, and Brassica oleracea var. capitata L., were dispersed along the chromosome lengths, with a predominant distribution in the pericentromeric or proximal regions and some heterochromatic arms. All chromosomes of the large genomes, maize and barley, were densely labeled with strongly labeled regions and weakly labeled or unlabeled regions being arranged alternatively throughout the lengths. In addition, enhanced signal bands were shown in all pericentromeres and the NORs in B. oleracea var. capitata and in all pericentromeric regions and certain intercalary sites in barley. The enhanced signal band pattern in barley was found consistent with the N-banding pattern of this species. The GISH with self-genomic DNA was compared with FISH with C(o)t-1 DNA in rice, and their signal patterns are found to be basically consistent. Our results showed that the self-GISH signals actually reflected the hybridization of genomic repetitive DNAs to the chromosomes, thus the self-GISH technique would be useful for revealing the distribution of the regions where repetitive DNAs concentrate along chromosomes and some chromatin differentiation associated with repetitive DNAs in plants.
17560710	In this paper, rice straw was esterified thermochemically with citric acid (CA) to produce potentially biodegradable cationic sorbent. The modified rice straw (MRS) and crude rice straw (CRS) were evaluated for their methylene blue (MB) removal capacity from aqueous solution. The effects of various experimental parameters (e.g., initial pH, sorbent dose, dye concentration, ion strength, and contact time) were examined. The ratio of MB sorbed on CRS increased as the initial pH was increased from pH 2 to 10. For MRS, the MB removal ratio came up to the maximum value beyond pH 3. The 1.5 g/l or up of MRS could almost completely remove the dye from 250 mg/l of MB solution. The ratio of MB sorbed kept above 98% over a range from 50 to 450 mg/l of MB concentration when 2.0 g/l of MRS was used. Increase in ion strength of solution induced decline of MB sorption. The isothermal data fitted the Langmuir model. The sorption processes followed the pseudo-first-order rate kinetics. The intraparticle diffusion rate constant (k(id)) was greatly increased due to modification.
17561926	The expression of infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) host-protective immunogen VP2 protein in rice seeds, its immunogenicity and protective capability in chickens were investigated. The VP2 cDNA of IBDV strain ZJ2000 was cloned downstream of the Gt1 promoter of the rice glutelin GluA-2 gene in the binary expression vector, pCambia1301-Gt1. Agrobacterium tumefaciens containing the recombinant vector was used to transform rice embryogenic calli, and 121 transgenic lines were obtained and grown to maturity in a greenhouse. The expression level of VP2 protein in transgenic rice seeds varied from 0.678% to 4.521% microg/mg of the total soluble seed protein. Specific pathogen-free chickens orally vaccinated with transgenic rice seeds expressing VP2 protein produced neutralizing antibodies against IBDV and were protected when challenged with a highly virulent IBDV strain, BC6/85. These results demonstrate that transgenic rice seeds expressing IBDV VP2 can be used as an effective, safe and inexpensive vaccine against IBDV.
17561927	Observational studies have shown that allergic infants, irrespective of the type of diet, show various degrees of growth depression in the first year of life. We investigated whether the type of milk in the complementary feeding period (6-12 months of age) is associated with differences in the increase of standardized growth indices (weight-for-age, WA; length-for-age, LA; and weight-for-length, WL, z-scores) in infants with cow's milk allergy (CMA). Infants with immunoglobulin E-mediated CMA breastfed at least 4 months and progressively weaned in the 5- to 6-month period were randomly assigned to three special formulas, a soy formula (n = 32), a casein hydrolysate (n = 31), and a rice hydrolysate (n = 30). A fourth, non-randomized group was made up by allergic infants still breastfed up to 12 months (n = 32). Groups were compared for WA, LA, and WL z-scores at 6, 9 and 12 months of age. All groups showed low WA and LA z-scores at 6 months of age. Infants fed hydrolyzed products showed a trend toward higher WA z-score increments in the 6- to 12-month period. The use of casein- and rice-based hydrolyzed formulas resulted in higher changes in WA compared with soy formula. Further research should be aimed at optimizing the dietary needs and feeding regimens for infants with CMA.
17562019	Musa species contain the fourth most important crop in developing countries. Here, we report the analysis of 6,252 BAC end-sequences, in order to view the sequence composition of the Musa acuminata genome in a cost effective and efficient manner. BAC end sequencing generated 6,252 reads representing 4,420,944 bp, including 2,979 clone pairs with an average read length after cleaning and filtering of 707 bp. All sequences have been submitted to GenBank, with the accession numbers DX451975-DX458350. The BAC end-sequences, were searched against several databases and significant homology was found to mitochondria and chloroplast (2.6%), transposons and repetitive sequences (36%) and proteins (11%). Functional interpretation of the protein matches was carried out by Gene Ontology assignments from matches to Arabidopsis and was shown to cover a broad range of categories. From protein matching regions of Musa BAC end-sequences, it was determined that the GC content of coding regions was 47%. Where protein matches encompassed a start codon, GC content as a function of position (5' to 3') across 129 bp sliding windows generates a "rice-like" gradient. A total of 352 potential SSR markers were discovered. The most abundant simple sequence repeats in four size categories were AT-rich. After filtering mitochondria and chloroplast matches, thousands of BAC end-sequences had a significant BLASTN match to the Oryza sativa and Arabidopsis genome sequence. Of these, a small number of BAC end-sequence pairs were shown to map to neighboring regions of the Oryza sativa genome representing regions of potential microsynteny. Database searches with the BAC end-sequences and ab initio analysis identified those reads likely to contain transposons, repeat sequences, proteins and simple sequence repeats. Approximately 600 BAC end-sequences contained protein sequences that were not found in the existing available Musa expressed sequence tags, repeat or transposon databases. In addition, gene statistics, GC content and profile could also be estimated based on the region matching the top protein hit. A small number of BAC end pair sequences can be mapped to neighboring regions of the Oryza sativa representing regions of potential microsynteny. These results suggest that a large-scale BAC end sequencing strategy has the potential to anchor a small proportion of the genome of Musa acuminata to the genomes of Oryza sativa and possibly Arabidopsis.
17562090	The ubiquitous cell membrane proteins called aquaporins are now firmly established as channel proteins that control the specific transport of water molecules across cell membranes in all living organisms. The aquaporins are thus likely to be of fundamental significance to all facets of plant growth and development affected by plant-water relations. A majority of plant aquaporins have been found to share essential structural features with the human aquaporin and exhibit water-transporting ability in various functional assays, and some have been shown experimentally to be of critical importance to plant survival. Furthermore, substantial evidence is now available from a number of plant species that shows differential gene expression of aquaporins in response to abiotic stresses such as salinity, drought, or cold and clearly establishes the aquaporins as major players in the response of plants to conditions that affect water availability. This review summarizes the function and regulation of these genes to develop a greater understanding of the response of plants to water insufficiency, and particularly, to identify tolerant genotypes of major crop species including wheat and rice and plants that are important in agroforestry.
17562186	OsDMC1 is the rice homologue of the yeast DMC1 gene. Here, we analyzed the function of OsDMC1 in meiosis using an RNA interference approach. The OsDMC1-RNAi lines grew normally during their vegetative phase but showed spikelet and pollen sterility. The sterility phenotypes were associated with down-regulated OsDMC1 transcript and protein levels mediated by RNAi. Further cytological observations of male meiocytes revealed that knock-down of OsDMC1 led to defects in bivalent formation and subsequent unequal chromosome segregation and irregular spore generation, and induced changes in male meiotic progression. Fluorescent in situ hybridization experiments revealed that the OsDMC1-RNAi lines were defective in homologous pairing. These data indicate that OsDMC1 is essential for rice meiosis and plays an important role in homologous pairing.
17562212	Imazosulfuron is a new post-emergence sulfonylurea herbicide. It is highly active at low application rates to control annual and perennial broad-leaf weeds and sedges in rice. There is increasing concerned about the persistence of pesticide residues in soils, crop produce and subsequent contamination of groundwater. Thus persistence of imazosulfuron residues under field condition was evaluated. Imazosulfuron was applied at 30, 40, 50 and 60 a. i. g ha (-1) rates, 4 days after transplanting of rice as post-emergence herbicide. Soil and plant samples treated with imazosulfuron were collected at 60, 90 and 120 days after herbicide application and analyzed for residues. Rice grains and straw samples were sampled at harvest (120 days). Residues of imazosulfuron in soil were not found after 90 and 120 DAS (days after spraying). Rice grains contained 0.006, 0.009 microg g(-1) residues at 50 and 60 g ha (-1) application rates. 0.009 and 0.039 microg g(-1) residues of imazosulfuron were detected at 50 and 60 g/ha rates respectively in rice straw. Residues of imazosulfuron were not detected applied at 30 and 40 g ha(-1) in rice grains and straw, respectively and can be safely applied to the transplanted rice.
17562286	The ubiquitous family of 14-3-3 proteins functions as regulators in a variety of physiological processes. Eight rice 14-3-3 genes, designated OsGF14a through h, were identified from an exhaustive search of the genome database. Comparisons of deduced amino acid sequences reveal a high degree of identity among members of the OsGF14 family and reported Arabidopsis 14-3-3 proteins. A phylogenetic study indicates that OsGF14s contain both epsilon and non-epsilon forms, which is also confirmed by a structural analysis of OsGF14 genes. Furthermore, transcripts of OsGF14b, OsGF14c, OsGF14d, OsGF14e, OsGF14f and OsGF14g were detected in rice tissues. Their different expression patterns, the different effects of environmental stresses and plant hormones on their transcription levels, and the different complementary phenotypes in yeast 14-3-3 mutants not only indicates that OsGF14s are responsive to various stress conditions and regulated by multiple signaling pathways, but also suggests that functional similarity and diversity coexist among the members of OsGF14 family.
17562293	Phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPx) is an unique antioxidant enzyme that directly reduces lipid hydroperoxides in biomembranes. In the present work, the entire encoding region for Oryza sativa PHGPx was expressed in Escherichia coli M15, and the purified fusion protein showed a single band with 21.0 kD and pI = 8.5 on SDS- and IFE-PAGE, respectively. Judging from CD and fluorescence spectroscopy, this protein is considered to have a well-ordered structure with 12.2% alpha-helix, 30.7% beta-sheet, 18.5% gamma-turn, and 38.5% random coil. The optimum pH and temperature of the enzyme activity were pH 9.3 and 27 degrees C. The enzyme exhibited the highest affinity and catalytical efficiency to phospholipid hydroperoxide employing GSH or Trx as electron donor. Moreover, the protein displayed higher GSH-dependent activity towards t-Butyl-OOH and H(2)O(2). These results show that OsPHGPx is an enzyme with broad specificity for hydroperoxide substrates and yielded significant insight into the physicochemical properties and the dynamics of OsPHGPx.
17562351	A field study on the runoff of pesticides was conducted during the cultivation period in 2004 on a hydraulically isolated rice farm of 120 ha surface with one central water outlet. Four pesticides were studied: Alphamethrin, MCPA, Oxadiazon, and Pretilachlor. Alphamethrin concentrations in runoff never exceeded 0.001 microg L(-1). The three other pesticides were found in concentrations between 5.2 and 28.2 microg L(-1) in the runoff water shortly after the application and decreased thereafter. The data for MCPA compared reasonably well with predictions by an analytical runoff model, accounting for volatilization, degradation, leaching to groundwater, and sorption to soil. The runoff model estimated that runoff accounted for as much as 18-42% of mass loss for MCPA. Less runoff is observed and predicted for Oxadiazon and Pretilachlor. It was concluded that runoff from rice paddies carries important loads of dissolved pesticides to the wetlands in the Ile de Camargue, and that the model can be used to predict this runoff.
17562468	The field study was conducted to evaluate the effect of municipal solid waste compost (MSWC) as a soil amendment on L-asparaginase (LA) and L-glutaminase (LG) activities. Experiments were conducted during the wet seasons of 1997, 1998 and 1999 on rice grown under a submerged condition, at the Agriculture Experimental Farm, Calcutta University at Baruipur, West Bengal, India. The treatments consisted of control, no input; MSWC, at 60 Kg N ha(- 1); well-decomposed cow manure (DCM), at 60 Kg N ha(- 1); MSWC (30 Kg N ha(- 1)) + Urea (U) (30 Kg N ha(- 1)); DCM (30 Kg N ha(- 1)) + U (30 Kg N ha(- 1)) and Fertilizer, (at 60:30:30 NPK kg ha(- 1)) through urea, single superphosphate and muriate of potash respectively). LA and LG activities alone and their ratio with organic-C (ratio index value, RIV), straw and grain yield were higher in DCM than MSWC-treated soils, due to higher amount of biogenic organic materials like water-soluble organic carbon, carbohydrate and mineralizable nitrogen in the former. The studied parameters were higher when urea was integrated with DCM or MSWC, compared to their single applications. The heavy metals in MSWC did not detrimentally influence the above-measured activities of soil. In the event of long term MSWC application, changes in soil quality parameters should be monitored regularly, since heavy metals once entering into soil persist over a long period.
17562688	Phosphorus deficiency is one of the major nutrient stresses affecting plant growth. Plants respond to phosphate (Pi) deficiency through multiple strategies, including the synthesis of high-affinity Pi transporters. In this study, the expression pattern of one putative wheat high-affinity phosphate transporter, TaPT2, was examined in roots and leaves under Pi-deficient conditions. TaPT2 transcript levels increased in roots of Pi-starved plants. A 579 bp fragment of the TaPT2 promoter is sufficient to drive the expression of the GUS reporter gene specifically in roots of Pi-deprived wheat. This TaPT2 promoter fragment was also able to drive expression of the GUS reporter gene in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana, under similar growth conditions. Conserved regions and candidate regulatory motifs were detected by comparing this promoter with Pi transporter promoters from barley, rice, and Arabidopsis. Altogether, these results indicate that there are conserved cis-acting elements and trans-acting factors that enable the TaPT2 promoter to be regulated in a tissue-specific and Pi-dependent fashion in both monocots and dicots.
17562689	Glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) converts L-glutamate to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is a non-protein amino acid present in all organisms. Plant GADs carry a C-terminal extension that binds to Ca(2+)/calmodulin (CaM) to modulate enzyme activity. However, rice possesses two distinct types of GAD, OsGAD1 and OsGAD2. Although they both have a C-terminal extension, the former peptide contains an authentic CaM-binding domain (CaMBD), which is common to dicotyledonous plants, while the latter does not. Therefore, the role of the C-terminal extension in functional expression of OsGAD2 was investigated. An in vitro enzyme assay using recombinant OsGAD2 proteins revealed low activity in the presence or absence of Ca(2+)/CaM. However, a truncated version of GAD2 (OsGAD2DeltaC) had over 40-fold higher activity than wild-type GAD at physiological pH. These two DNA constructs were introduced simultaneously into rice calli via Agrobacterium to establish transgenic cell lines. Free amino acids were isolated from several lines for each construct to determine GABA content. Calli overexpressing OsGAD2 and OsGAD2DeltaC had about 6-fold and 100-fold the GABA content of wild-type calli, respectively. Regenerated OsGAD2DeltaC rice plants had aberrant phenotypes such as dwarfism, etiolated leaves, and sterility. These data suggest that the C-terminal extension of OsGAD2 plays a role as a strong autoinhibitory domain, and that truncation of this domain causes the enzyme to act constitutively, with higher activity both in vitro and in vivo.
17563377	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae strain PXO99(A) induces the expression of the host gene Os8N3, which results in increased host susceptibility to bacterial blight of rice. Here, we show that PXO99(A) affects the expression of two additional genes in a type III secretion system-dependent manner, one encoding a bZIP transcription factor (OsTFX1) and the other the small subunit of the transcription factor IIA located on chromosome 1 (OsTFIIAgamma1). Induction of OsTFX1 and OsTFIIAgamma1 depended on the type III effector genes pthXo6 and pthXo7, respectively, both encoding two previously undescribed members of the transcription activator-like (TAL) effector family. pthXo7 is strain-specific and may reflect adaptation to the resistance mediated by xa5, an allele of OsTFIIAgamma5 encoding a second form of the TFIIA small subunit on chromosome 5 of rice. The loss of pthXo6 resulted in reduced pathogen virulence, and ectopic expression of OsTFX1 abrogated the requirement for pthXo6 for full virulence. X. oryzae pv. oryzae therefore modulates the expression of multiple host genes using multiple TAL effectors from a single strain, and evidence supports the hypothesis that expression of the associated host genes contributes to host susceptibility to disease.
17564456	A capillary gas chromatographic (GC) method has been developed for the separation and determination of policosanol components extracted from rice bran wax. A Varian CP-sil 8 CB column was employed, and an oven temperature was programmed. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was used to identify the composition of policosanol. Quantitative analysis was carried out by means of hydrogen flame ionization detector (FID) with dinonyl phthalate (DNP) as internal standard. The results indicated that the extract obtained by dry saponification has the highest contents of octacosanol and triacontanol among extracts by all used extraction methods including dry saponification, saponification in alcohol, saponification in water (neutralized and non-neutralized), and transesterification. Meanwhile, the GC-MS fingerprint of policosanol extracted by dry saponification has been established. Euclidean distance similarity calculation showed remarkable consistency of compositions and contents among 12 batches of policosanol from a rice bran wax variety. This protocol provided a rapid and feasible method for quality control of policosanol products.
17565583	Multicellular organisms produce small cysteine-rich antimicrobial peptides as an innate defense against pathogens. While defensins, a well-known class of such peptides, are common among eukaryotes, there are other classes restricted to the plant kingdom. These include thionins, lipid transfer proteins and snakins. In earlier work, we identified several divergent classes of small putatively secreted cysteine-rich peptides (CRPs) in legumes [Graham et al. (2004)Plant Physiol. 135, 1179-97]. Here, we built sequence motif models for each of these classes of peptides, and iteratively searched for related sequences within the comprehensive UniProt protein dataset, the Institute for Genomic Research's 33 plant gene indices, and the entire genomes of the model dicot, Arabidopsis thaliana, and the model monocot and crop species, Oryza sativa (rice). Using this search strategy, we identified approximately 13,000 plant genes encoding peptides with common features: (i) an N-terminal signal peptide, (ii) a small divergent charged or polar mature peptide with conserved cysteines, (iii) a similar intron/exon structure, (iv) spatial clustering in the genomes studied, and (v) overrepresentation in expressed sequences from reproductive structures of specific taxa. The identified genes include classes of defensins, thionins, lipid transfer proteins, and snakins, plus other protease inhibitors, pollen allergens, and uncharacterized gene families. We estimate that these classes of genes account for approximately 2-3% of the gene repertoire of each model species. Although 24% of the genes identified were not annotated in the latest Arabidopsis genome releases (TIGR5, TAIR6), we confirmed expression via RT-PCR for 59% of the sequences attempted. These findings highlight limitations in current annotation procedures for small divergent peptide classes.
17565938	A key frustration during positional gene cloning (map-based cloning) is that the size of the progeny mapping population is difficult to predict, because the meiotic recombination frequency varies along chromosomes. We describe a detailed methodology to improve this prediction using rice (Oryza sativa L.) as a model system. We derived and/or validated, then fine-tuned, equations that estimate the mapping population size by comparing these theoretical estimates to 41 successful positional cloning attempts. We then used each validated equation to test whether neighborhood meiotic recombination frequencies extracted from a reference RFLP map can help researchers predict the mapping population size. We developed a meiotic recombination frequency map (MRFM) for approximately 1400 marker intervals in rice and anchored each published allele onto an interval on this map. We show that neighborhood recombination frequencies (R-map, >280-kb segments) extracted from the MRFM, in conjunction with the validated formulas, better predicted the mapping population size than the genome-wide average recombination frequency (R-avg), with improved results whether the recombination frequency was calculated as genes/cM or kb/cM. Our results offer a detailed road map for better predicting mapping population size in diverse eukaryotes, but useful predictions will require robust recombination frequency maps based on sampling more progeny.
17566055	Chloroplasts take up cytosolic nitrite during nitrate assimilation. In this study we identified a nitrite transporter located in the chloroplasts of higher plants. The transporter, CsNitr1-L, a member of the proton-dependent oligopeptide transporter (POT) family, was detected during light-induced chloroplast development in de-etiolating cucumber seedlings. We detected a CsNitr1-L-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in the chloroplasts of leaf cells and found that an immunoreactive 51 kDa protein was present in the isolated inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts. CsNitr1-L has an isoform, CsNitr1-S, with an identical 484 amino acid core sequence; however, in CsNitr1-S the 120 amino acid N-terminal extension is missing. Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells expressing CsNitr1-S absorbed nitrite from an acidic medium at a slower rate than mock-transformed control cells, and accumulated nitrite to only one-sixth the concentration of the control cells, suggesting that CsNitr1-S enhances the efflux of nitrite from the cell. Insertion of T-DNA in a single CsNitr1-L homolog (At1g68570) in Arabidopsis resulted in nitrite accumulation in leaves to more than five times the concentration found in the wild type. These results show that it is possible that both CsNitr1-L and CsNitr1-S encode efflux-type nitrite transporters, but with different subcellular localizations. CsNitr1-L may possibly load cytosolic nitrite into chloroplast stroma in the chloroplast envelope during nitrate assimilation. The presence of genes homologous to CsNitr1-L in the genomes of Arabidopsis and rice indicates that facilitated nitrite transport is of general physiological importance in plant nutrition.
17566379
17566382
17567441	The brown planthopper (BPH) is one of the most serious insect pests of rice throughout Asia. In this study, we constructed a linkage map to determine the locus for BPH resistance gene, using an F(2) population from a cross between a resistant indica cultivar, 'Col.5 Thailand', and a susceptible cultivar '02428'. Insect resistance was evaluated using 147 F(3) families and the genotype of each F(2) plant was inferred from the phenotype of corresponding F(3) families. Two QTLs was detected on chromosome 2 (explains 29.4% phenotypic variation) and 6 (46.2% variation explained) associated with resistance to BPH in the mapping population. Comparison of the chromosomal locations and reactions to BPH biotypes indicated that the gene on chromosome 6 is different from at least 18 of the 19 previously identified BPH resistance genes. These two genes have large effects on BPH resistance and may be a useful BPH resistance resource for rice breeding programs.
17567639	The Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) is synthesized as a preproprotein. To corroborate the role of the different targeting peptides in the topogenesis of GNA and related proteins, different constructs were made whereby both the complete original GNA gene and different truncated sequences were coupled to the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). In addition, a GNA ortholog from rice that lacks the signal peptide and C-terminal propeptide sequence was fused to EGFP. These fusion constructs were expressed in tobacco BY-2 cells and their localization analyzed by confocal fluorescence microscopy. We observed that the processed preproprotein of GNA was directed towards the vacuolar compartment, whereas both the truncated forms of GNA corresponding to the mature lectin polypeptide and the rice ortholog of GNA were located in the nucleus and the cytoplasm. It can be concluded, therefore, that removal of the C-terminal propeptide and the signal peptide is sufficient to change the subcellular targeting of a normally vacuolar protein to the nuclear/cytoplasmic compartment of the BY-2 cells. These findings support the proposed hypothesis that cytoplasmic/nuclear GNA-like proteins and their vacuolar homologs are evolutionarily related and that the classical GNA-related lectins might have evolved from cytoplasmic orthologs through an evolutionary event involving the insertion of a signal peptide and a C-terminal propeptide.
17568245	Several lipid ratios may be predictors of coronary artery disease risk. We assessed the efficacy of Monascus purpureus Went rice (red yeast rice) on lowering lipid ratios. We evaluated 79 hypercholesterolemic patients (aged 23-65 years) who received a twice-daily dose of either red yeast rice or a placebo at 600 mg for 8 weeks. The 8-week treatment with red yeast rice showed significantly greater reduction than the placebo treatment in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, total cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein A-I ratios. Red yeast rice can reduce lipid ratios in hypercholesterolemic patients.
17568562	We have purified a novel antifungal protein from blast fungus (Magnaporthe grisea)-treated rice leaves using consecutive chromatographies on CM-Sepharose ion-change, Affi-gel blue, and HPLC gel filtration columns. We determined the N-terminal peptide sequence of the purified protein and subjected it to the NCBI/BLAST database and found the protein to be a partial fragment of the peroxisomal receptor protein in rice (OsPex5p). After cloning two cDNAs encoding OsPEX5L and OsPEX5S genes that are splice variants of OsPEX5 from a rice leaf cDNA library, we investigated their antifungal properties. The recombinant proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and found to significantly inhibit cell growth of various pathogenic fungal strains. mRNA expression of the OsPEX5L gene was induced by diverse external stresses such as rice blast fungus, fungal elicitor, and other signaling molecules including H(2)O(2), abscisic acid, jasmonic acid, and salicylic acid. These results suggest that the peroxisomal receptor protein, OsPex5p, plays a critical role in the rice defense system against diverse external stresses including fungal pathogenic attack.
17568984	TCP proteins are plant-specific transcription factors identified so far only in angiosperms and shown to be involved in specifying plant morphologies. However, the functions of these proteins remain largely unknown. Our study is the first phylogenetic analysis comparing the TCP genes from higher and lower plants, and it dates the emergence of the TCP family to before the split of the Zygnemophyta. EST database analysis and CODEHOP PCR amplification revealed TCP genes in basal land plant genomes and also in their close freshwater algal relatives. Based on an extensive survey of TCP genes, families of TCP proteins were characterized in the Arabidopsis thaliana, poplar, rice, club-moss, and moss genomes. The phylogenetic trees indicate a continuous expansion of the TCP family during the diversification of the Phragmoplastophyta and a similar degree of expansion in several angiosperm lineages. TCP paralogues were identified in all genomes studied, and Ks values indicate that TCP genes expanded during genome duplication events. MEME and SIMPLE analyses detected conserved motifs and low-complexity regions, respectively, outside of the TCP domain, which reinforced the previous description of a "mosaic" structure of TCP proteins.
17569512	This work reports measurements of absolute rate coefficients and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) master equation simulations of the C2H3+C2H4 reaction. Direct kinetic studies were performed over a temperature range of 300-700 K and pressures of 20 and 133 mbar. Vinyl radicals (H2C=CH) were generated by laser photolysis of vinyl iodide (C2H3I) at 266 nm, and time-resolved absorption spectroscopy was used to probe vinyl radicals through absorption at 423.2 nm. Measurements at 20 mbar are in good agreement with previous determinations at higher temperature. A weighted three-parameter Arrhenius fit to the experimental rate constant at 133 mbar, with the temperature exponent fixed, gives k=(7+/-1)x10(-14) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1) (T/298 K)2 exp[-(1430+/-70) K/T]. RRKM master equation simulations, based on G3 calculations of stationary points on the C4H7 potential energy surface, were carried out to predict rate coefficients and product branching fractions. The predicted branching to 1-methylallyl product is relatively small under the conditions of the present experiments but increases as the pressure is lowered. Analysis of end products of 248 nm photolysis of vinyl iodide/ethylene mixtures at total pressures between 27 and 933 mbar provides no direct evidence for participation of 1-methylallyl.
17570368	The anthropometric somatotype is a quantitative description of body shape and composition. Familial studies indicate the existence of a familial resemblance for this phenotype and they suggest a substantial action by genetic factors on this aggregation. The aim of this study is to examine the degree of familial resemblance of the somatotype components and of a factor of shape, in a sample of Biscay nuclear families (Basque Country, Spain). One thousand three hundred and thirty nuclear families were analysed. The anthropometric somatotype components [Carter, J.E.L., Heath, B.H., 1990. Somatotyping. Development and applications. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, p. 503] were computed. Each component was fitted for the other two through a stepwise multiple regression, and also fitted through the LMS method [Cole, T., 1988. Fitting smoothed centile curves to reference data. J. Roy. Stat. Soc. 151, 385-418] in order to eliminate the age, sex and generation effects. The three raw components were introduced in a PCA from which a shape factor (PC1) was extracted for each generation. The correlations analysis was performed with the SEGPATH package [Province, M.A., Rao, D.C., 1995. General purpose model and computer programme for combined segregation and path analysis (SEGPATH): automatically creating computer from symbolic language model specifications. Genet. Epidemiol. 12, 203-219]. A general model of transmission and nine reduced models were tested. Maximal heritability was estimated with the formula of [Rice, T., Warwick, D.E., Gagnon, J., Bouchard, C., Leon, A.S., Skinner, J.S., Wilmore, J.H., Rao, D.C., 1997. Familial resemblance for body composition measures: the HERITAGE family study. Obes. Res. 5, 557-562]. The correlations were higher between offspring than in parents and offspring and a significant resemblance between mating partners existed. Maximum heritabilities were 55%, 52% and 46% for endomorphy, mesomorphy and ectomorphy, respectively, and 52% for PC1. In conclusion, the somatotype presents a moderate degree of familial aggregation. For the somatotype components, as well as for PC1, the degree of familial resemblance depends on age. The sex only has a significant effect on ectomorphy.
17570521	Two-week-old dark-grown rice seedlings were de-etiolated upon exposure to light. A comparison of 2-DE protein profiles between the dark-grown control and the rice seedlings illuminated respectively for 6, 12 and 24 h revealed 52 differentially expressed CBB-stained spots. Of these changed spots, the identity of 51 protein spots was determined by MALDI-TOF MS. Of these identified proteins, 13 proteins were related to light reactions of photosynthesis, photosynthetic carbon assimilation and chlorophyll biosynthesis, indicating the complex process of biogenesis of photosynthetic apparatus was correlated to the transition from a dark-grown (etiolated) to a light-grown (de-etiolated) morphology. In addition, three proteins related to antioxidation and detoxification decreased in de-etiolated rice seedlings implied, that the etiolated rice seedlings possibly be under an oxidative stress which could be released during their early stages of de-etiolation. The increase of S-adenosylmethionine synthetase that is involved in the biosynthesis of the phytohormone ethylene might contribute to the phenotypic development of the apical hook in the de-etiolated rice seedlings. These results yield a comprehensive picture of the post-transcriptional response for de-etiolation of rice seedlings and serve as a basic platform for further characterization of gene function and regulation in light-induced development of plants.
17570562	The expression of the maize polyubiquitin gene promoter UBI1 in rice cells has been used to study the involvement of ubiquitin in cell protection responses to dehydration caused by osmotic, saline or freezing stress. The effect of these stresses on UBI1 activity was investigated by the use of stably transformed rice calli (UBI1:GUS), as well as by transient expression experiments performed with cell lines with high or low tolerance to each type of stress. The theoretical analysis of the UBI1 promoter shows several putative stress-regulated boxes that could account for the stress-related UBI1 induction pattern described in this work. We suggest that the study of the differential UBI1 promoter-driven expression in rice cell lines with different level of tolerance to stress might be useful to elucidate complex signal transduction pathways in response to dehydration stresses in monocots.
17571251	Toxicity due to high levels of soil boron (B) represents a significant limitation to cereal production in some regions, and the Bo1 gene provides a major source of B toxicity tolerance in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). A novel approach was used to develop primers to amplify and sequence gene fragments specifically from the Bo1 region of the hexaploid wheat genome. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) identified were then used to generate markers close to Bo1 on the distal end of chromosome 7BL. In the 16 gene fragments totaling 19.6 kb, SNPs were observed between the two cultivars Cranbrook and Halberd at a low frequency (one every 613 bp). Furthermore, SNPs were distributed unevenly, being limited to only two genes. In contrast, RFLP provided a much greater number of genetic markers, with every tested gene identifying polymorphism. Bo1 previously known only as a QTL was located as a discrete Mendelian locus. In total, 28 new RFLP, PCR and SSR markers were added to the existing map. The 1.8 cM Bo1 interval of wheat corresponds to a 227 kb section of rice chromosome 6L encoding 21 predicted proteins with no homology to any known B transporters. The co-dominant PCR marker AWW5L7 co-segregated with Bo1 and was highly predictive of B tolerance status within a set of 94 Australian bread wheat cultivars and breeding lines. The markers and rice colinearity described here represent tools that will assist B tolerance breeding and the positional cloning of Bo1.
17572437	Although the regulation of reproductive diapause by environmental factors has been extensively studied in a variety of insect orders, sexual differences in the regulation of diapause are still poorly understood. We examined the effects of environmental factors including photoperiod, temperature and food on the regulation of reproductive diapause in both sexes of the rice bug Leptocorisa chinensis (Dallas) (Hemiptera: Alydidae) in the laboratory and under natural conditions. There was no significant difference in critical daylength (CDL) for diapause induction between the sexes. The CDL corresponded to the daylength in which development of the gonads was suppressed in half the insects caught in the field. Both sexes enter diapause at the same time in successive seasons. In diapause insects, on the other hand, there were sexual differences not only in retention of responsiveness to photoperiod and temperature but also in the food requirement, and these sexual differences lead to different timing of the resumption of reproductive development after overwintering.
17572935	Little is known about the relationship of monetary diet costs to dietary intake and obesity, particularly in non-Western populations. This study examined monetary cost of dietary energy in relation to diet quality and body mass index (BMI) among young Japanese women. Dietary intake was assessed by a validated, self-administered, diet history questionnaire. Diet costs were estimated using retail food prices. Monetary cost of dietary energy (Japanese yen 1000 kcal-1) was then calculated. BMI was computed from self-reported body weight and height. A total of 3931 female Japanese dietetic students aged 18-20 years. Monetary cost of dietary energy was positively associated with intakes of fruits, vegetables, fish and shellfish, and pulses; however, higher monetary cost of dietary energy was also associated with higher consumption of fat and oil, meat and energy-containing beverages, and lower consumption of cereals (rice, bread and noodles) (all P for trend <0.01). At the nutrient level, monetary cost of dietary energy was positively associated with intakes of dietary fibre and key vitamins and minerals, but also associated positively with intakes of fat, saturated fatty acids, cholesterol and sodium, and negatively with carbohydrate intake (all P for trend <0.0001). After adjustment for possible confounders, monetary cost of dietary energy was quite weakly but significantly negatively associated with BMI (P for trend = 0.0197). Increasing monetary cost of dietary energy was associated with both favourable and unfavourable dietary intake patterns and a quite small decrease in BMI in young Japanese women.
17573466	In Eukaryotes, LIM proteins act as developmental regulators in basic cellular processes such as regulating the transcription or organizing the cytoskeleton. The LIM domain protein family in plants has mainly been studied in sunflower and tobacco plants, where several of its members exhibit a specific pattern of expression in pollen. In this paper, we finely characterized in poplar six transcripts encoding these proteins. In Populus trichocarpa genome, the 12 LIM gene models identified all appear to be duplicated genes. In addition, we describe several new LIM domain proteins deduced from Arabidopsis and rice genomes, raising the number of LIM gene models to six for both species. Plant LIM genes have a core structure of four introns with highly conserved coding regions. We also identified new LIM domain proteins in several other species, and a phylogenetic analysis of plant LIM proteins reveals that they have undergone one or several duplication events during the evolution. We gathered several LIM protein members within new monophyletic groups. We propose to classify the plant LIM proteins into four groups: alphaLIM1, betaLIM1, gammaLIM2, and deltaLIM2, subdivided according to their specificity to a taxonomic class and/or to their tissue-specific expression. Our investigation of the structure of the LIM domain proteins revealed that they contain many conserved motifs potentially involved in their function.
17573530	Capable of inducing antigen-specific immune responses in both systemic and mucosal compartments without the use of syringe and needle, mucosal vaccination is considered ideal for the global control of infectious diseases. In this study, we developed a rice-based oral vaccine expressing cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) under the control of the endosperm-specific expression promoter 2.3-kb glutelin GluB-1 with codon usage optimization for expression in rice seed. An average of 30 mug of CTB per seed was stored in the protein bodies, which are storage organelles in rice. When mucosally fed, rice seeds expressing CTB were taken up by the M cells covering the Peyer's patches and induced CTB-specific serum IgG and mucosal IgA antibodies with neutralizing activity. When expressed in rice, CTB was protected from pepsin digestion in vitro. Rice-expressed CTB also remained stable and thus maintained immunogenicity at room temperature for >1.5 years, meaning that antigen-specific mucosal immune responses were induced at much lower doses than were necessary with purified recombinant CTB. Because they require neither refrigeration (cold-chain management) nor a needle, these rice-based mucosal vaccines offer a highly practical and cost-effective strategy for orally vaccinating large populations against mucosal infections, including those that may result from an act of bioterrorism.
17573804	Current models for the evolution of plant disease resistance (R) genes are based on mechanisms such as unequal crossing-over, gene conversion and point mutations as sources for genetic variability and the generation of new specificities. Size variation in leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domains was previously mainly attributed to unequal crossing-over or template slippage between LRR units. Our analysis of 112 R genes and R gene analogs (RGAs) from 16 different gene lineages from monocots and dicots showed that individual LRR units are mostly too divergent to allow unequal crossing-over. We found that illegitimate recombination (IR) is the major mechanism that generates quasi-random duplications within the LRR domain. These initial duplications are required as seeds for subsequent unequal crossing-over events which cause the observed rapid increase or decrease in LRR repeat numbers. Ten of the 16 gene lineages studied contained such duplications, and in four of them the duplications served as a template for subsequent repeat amplification. Our analysis of Pm3-like genes from rice and three wheat species showed that such events can be traced back more than 50 million years. Thus, IR represents a major new evolutionary mechanism that is essential for the generation of molecular diversity in evolution of RGAs.
1757420	A liquid chromatographic (LC) technique has been developed that uses the Mycosep multifunctional cleanup (MFC) column. MFC columns provide a rapid 1-step extract purification. They are designed to retain particular groups of compounds that may create interferences in analytical methods. At the same time, MFC columns allow compounds of interest to pass through. In the method presented, test samples are extracted in a blender with acetonitrile-water (9 + 1). A portion of the extract is forced through an MFC column designed especially for analysis of numerous mycotoxins. Analytical interferences are retained, while aflatoxins pass through the column. Aflatoxins B1 and G1 are converted to their hemiacetals by heating a mixture of purified extract and water-trifluoroacetic acid-acetic acid (7 + 2 + 1) at 65 degrees C for 8.5 min. An aliquot of this mixture is analyzed by isocratic LC with acetonitrile-water mobile phase and fluorescence detection. A detection limit of less than 0.5 ng/g for aflatoxin B1 was obtained. Average recoveries greater than 95% total aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, and G2) and coefficients of variation of less than 3% were obtained. The method was successfully applied to the following commodities: corn, almonds, pista-chios, walnuts, peanuts, Brazil nuts, milo, rice, cottonseed, corn meal, corn gluten meal, fig paste, and mixed feeds.
17574542	Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus has a long-standing history of bacterial-plant interrelationship as a symbiotic endophyte capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen. In low nitrogen fertilized sugarcane fields it plays a significant role and its occurrence was realised in most of the sugarcane growing countries. In this mini review, the association of G. diazotrophicus with sugarcane, other crop plants and with various hosts is discussed. The factors affecting survival in the rhizosphere and the putative soil mode of transmission are emphasized. In addition, other N(2)-fixing Acetobacteraceae members, including Gluconacetobacter azotocaptans, Gluconacetobacter johannae and Swaminathania salitolerans, occurring in coffee, corn and rice plants are also covered. Lastly, the plant-growth-promoting traits identified in this group of bacteria, including N(2) fixation, phytohormone synthesis, P and Zn solubilization and biocontrol, are analysed.
17574716	The phytochemical compounds oryzanols, tocopherols, tocotrienols and ferulic acid were identified in the crude methanolic extracts (CME) of defatted rice bran (DRB) by HPLC. Enrichment of antioxidants in CME was achieved by sequential extraction and fractionation resulting in three enriched fractions viz. acetone extract (AE), acetone extract-lipophilic fraction (AE-LP) and acetone extract-polar fraction (AE-PP). The scavenging effects of DRB extracts and their phytochemical constituents against DPPH and superoxide radicals were investigated. The EC(50) (g antioxidant/kg DPPH) values of CME, AE, AE-LP, AE-PP, oryzanols, ferulic acid, tocols (Tmix), tricin, beta-sitosterol, BHT and TBHQ were 1,977, 1,945, 7,985, 1,072, 972, 174, 164, 3,947, 21,416, 1,120 and 61, respectively. Tricin and beta-sitosterol isolated from CME were identified with the help of spectral data. The DRB extracts and their phytochemical constituents when assayed by cytochrome c and NBT methods showed positive superoxide radical scavenging effects. The order of efficacies of the extracts was AE-PP>AE>CME>AE-LP in both assays, but the activities were higher for the former method. The DPPH as well as superoxide scavenging activities of AE, AE-LP and AE-PP could largely be attributed to the levels of total phenols (TPC) and ferulic acid in it.
17574737	The removal of Cr(VI) from aqueous solution by rice straw, a surplus agricultural byproduct was investigated. The optimal pH was 2.0 and Cr(VI) removal rate increased with decreased Cr(VI) concentration and with increased temperature. Decrease in straw particle size led to an increase in Cr(VI) removal. Equilibrium was achieved in about 48 h under standard conditions, and Cr(III), which appeared in the solution and remained stable thereafter, indicating that both reduction and adsorption played a part in the Cr(VI) removal. The increase of the solution pH suggested that protons were needed for the Cr(VI) removal. A relatively high level of NO(3)(-) notably restrained the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III), while high level of SO(4)(2-) supported it. The promotion of the tartaric acid modified rice straw (TARS) and the slight inhibition of the esterified rice straw (ERS) on Cr(VI) removal indicated that carboxyl groups present on the biomass played an important role in chromium remediation even though were not fully responsible for it. Isotherm tests showed that equilibrium sorption data were better represented by Langmuir model and the sorption capacity of rice straw was found to be 3.15 mg/g.
17576597	Blast, caused by the ascomycete fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, is one of the most devastating diseases of rice worldwide. The Chinese native cultivar (cv.) Q15 expresses the broad-spectrum resistance to most of the isolates collected from China. To effectively utilize the resistance, three rounds of linkage analysis were performed in an F(2) population derived from a cross of Q15 and a susceptible cv. Tsuyuake, which segregated into 3:1 (resistant/susceptible) ratio. The first round of linkage analysis employing simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers was carried out in the F(2) population through bulked-segregant assay. A total of 180 SSR markers selected from each chromosome equally were surveyed. The results revealed that only two polymorphic markers, RM247 and RM463, located on chromosome 12, were linked to the resistance (R) gene. To further define the chromosomal location of the R gene locus, the second round of linkage analysis was performed using additional five SSR markers, which located in the region anchored by markers RM247 and RM463. The locus was further mapped to a 0.27 cM region bounded by markers RM27933 and RM27940 in the pericentromeric region towards the short arm. For fine mapping of the R locus, seven new markers were developed in the smaller region for the third round of linkage analysis, based on the reference sequences. The R locus was further mapped to a 0.18 cM region flanked by marker clusters 39M11 and 39M22, which is closest to, but away from the Pita/Pita(2) locus by 0.09 cM. To physically map the locus, all the linked markers were landed on the respective bacterial artificial chromosome clones of the reference cv. Nipponbare. Sequence information of these clones was used to construct a physical map of the locus, in silico, by bioinformatics analysis. The locus was physically defined to an interval of approximately 37 kb. To further characterize the R gene, five R genes mapped near the locus, as well as 10 main R genes those might be exploited in the resistance breeding programs, were selected for differential tests with 475 Chinese isolates. The R gene carrier Q15 conveys resistances distinct from those conditioned by the carriers of the 15 R genes. Together, this valuable R gene was, therefore, designated as Pi39(t). The sequence information of the R gene locus could be used for further marker-based selection and cloning.
17576658	Epigenetics is defined as mechanisms that regulate gene expression without base sequence alteration. One molecular basis is considered to be DNA cytosine methylation, which reversibly modifies DNA or chromatin structures. Although its correlation with epigenetic inheritance over generations has been circumstantially shown, evidence at the gene level has been limited. The present study aims to find genes whose methylation status directly correlates with inheritance of phenotypic changes. DNA methylation in vivo was artificially reduced by treating rice (Oryza sativa ssp. japonica) seeds with 5-azadeoxycytidine, and the progeny were cultivated in the field for > 10 years. Genomic regions with changed methylation status were screened by the methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphysm (MSAP) method, and cytosine methylation was directly scanned by the bisulfite mapping method. Pathogen infection with Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, race PR2 was performed by the scissors-dip method on mature leaf blades. The majority of seedlings were lethal, but some survived to maturity. One line designated as Line-2 showed a clear marker phenotype of dwarfism, which was stably inherited by the progeny over nine generations. MSAP screening identified six fragments, among which two were further characterized by DNA blot hybridization and direct methylation mapping. One clone encoding a retrotransposon gag-pol polyprotein showed a complete erasure of 5-methylcytosines in Line-2, but neither translocation nor expression of this region was detectable. The other clone encoded an Xa21-like protein, Xa21G. In wild-type plants, all cytosines were methylated within the promoter region, whereas in Line-2, corresponding methylation was completely erased throughout generations. Expression of Xa21G was not detectable in wild type but was constitutive in Line-2. When infected with X. oryzae pv. oryzae, against which Xa21 confers resistance in a gene-for-gene manner, the progeny of Line-2 were apparently resistant while the wild type was highly susceptible without Xa21G expression. These results indicated that demethylation was selective in Line-2, and that promoter demethylation abolished the constitutive silencing of Xa21G due to hypermethylation, resulting in acquisition of disease resistance. Both hypomethylation and resistant trait were stably inherited. This is a clear example of epigenetic inheritance, and supports the idea of Lamarckian inheritance which suggested acquired traits to be heritable.
17577080	This study was conducted to investigate the systematic error, such as seasonal change or inadequate food items, in a food frequency questionnaire administered to workers in a Nuclear Power Plant, Korea. We performed three repeat-tests with 28 subjects on May 13, July 8 and Dec 16, 1992. Our food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) comprised 84 foods organized into 7 food-groups, and was composed of the items of usual intake frequency (8 categories) and the amount per intake (3 or 4 categories) over the previous year. We compared the means of intake frequency and the frequency of the portion-size according to each season using Repeated Measures ANOVA and Pearson's chi-square test with Fisher's exact test. We found the significant seasonal changes of several food items in intake frequency measurement. These items were typical seasonal foods such as mandarin orange, plum and green vegetables, while the single questions consisted of inadequate food items such as thick beef or similar soup and various kimchi products. Significant seasonal changes in portion-size were found in only two items: cooked rice-brown and fresh/frozen fishes. The systematic errors observed could caused loss of validity in the FFQ. Consideration should be given for seasonal variation in FFQ survey and methodological concerns are needed to improve the quality for measuring usual diet pattern.
17577195	Basmati rice is a very special type of aromatic rice known world-wide for its extra long grains and pleasant and distinct aroma. Traditional Basmati rice cultivars, confined to Indo-Gangetic regions of the Indian subcontinent, are often reported to be adulterated with crossbred Basmati varieties and long-grain non-Basmati varieties in the export market. At present, there is no commercial scale technology to reliably detect adulteration. We report here a CE-based multiplex microsatellite marker assay for detection as well as quantification of adulteration in Basmati rice samples. The single-tube assay multiplexes eight microsatellite loci to generate variety-specific allele profiles that can detect adulteration from 1% upwards. The protocol also incorporates a quantitative-competitive PCR-based analysis for quantification of adulteration. Accuracy of quantification has been shown to be +/-1.5%. The experiments used to develop and validate the methodology are described.
17577400	Plants respond to low temperature through an intricately coordinated transcriptional network. The CBF/DREB-regulated network of genes has been shown to play a prominent role in freeze-tolerance of Arabidopsis through the process of cold acclimation (CA). Recent evidence also showed that the CBF/DREB regulon is not unique to CA but evolutionarily conserved between chilling-insensitive (temperate) and chilling-sensitive (warm-season) plants. In this study, the wide contrast in chilling sensitivity between indica and japonica rice was used as model to identify other regulatory clusters by integrative analysis of promoter architecture (ab initio) and gene expression profiles. Transcriptome analysis in chilling tolerant japonica rice identified a subset of 121 'early response' genes that were upregulated during the initial 24 hours at 10 degrees C. Among this group were four transcription factors including ROS-bZIP1 and another larger sub-group with a common feature of having as1/ocs-like elements in their promoters. Cold-induction of ROS-bZIP1 preceded the induction of as1/ocs-like element-containing genes and they were also induced by exogenous H2O2 at ambient temperature. Coordinated expression patterns and similar promoter architectures among the 'early response' genes suggest that they belong to a potential regulon (ROS-bZIP-as1/ocs regulatory module) that responds to elevated levels of ROS during chilling stress. Cultivar-specific expression signatures of the candidate genes indicate a positive correlation between the activity of the putative regulon and genotypic variation in chilling tolerance. A hypothetical model of an ROS-mediated regulon (ROS-bZIP-as1/ocs) triggered by chilling stress was assembled in rice. Based on the current results, it appears that this regulon is independent of ABA and CBF/DREB, and that its activation has an important contribution in configuring the rapid responses of rice seedlings to chilling stress.
17578610	Intronless genes, a characteristic feature of prokaryotes, constitute a significant portion of the eukaryotic genomes. Our analysis revealed the presence of 11,109 (19.9%) and 5,846 (21.7%) intronless genes in rice and Arabidopsis genomes, respectively, belonging to different cellular role and gene ontology categories. The distribution and conservation of rice and Arabidopsis intronless genes among different taxonomic groups have been analyzed. A total of 301 and 296 intronless genes from rice and Arabidopsis, respectively, are conserved among organisms representing the three major domains of life, i.e., archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotes. These evolutionarily conserved proteins are predicted to be involved in housekeeping cellular functions. Interestingly, among the 68% of rice and 77% of Arabidopsis intronless genes present only in eukaryotic genomes, approximately 51% and 57% genes have orthologs only in plants, and thus may represent the plant-specific genes. Furthermore, 831 and 144 intronless genes of rice and Arabidopsis, respectively, referred to as ORFans, do not exhibit homology to any of the genes in the database and may perform species-specific functions. These data can serve as a resource for further comparative, evolutionary, and functional analysis of intronless genes in plants and other organisms.
17578919	An active miniature inverted repeat transposable element (MITE), mPing, was discovered by computer-assisted analysis of rice genome sequence. The mPing element is mobile in rice cell culture and in a few rice strains where it has been amplified to >1,000 copies during recent domestication. However, determination of the transposase source and characterization of the mechanism of transposition have been hampered by the high copy number of mPing and the presence of several candidate autonomous elements in the rice genome. Here, we report that mPing is active in Arabidopsis thaliana, where its transposition is catalyzed by three sources of transposase from rice: the autonomous Ping and Pong elements and by a cDNA derived from a Ping transcript. In addition to transposase, the product of a second element-encoded ORF of unknown function is also required for mPing transposition. Excision of mPing in A. thaliana is usually precise, and transposed copies usually insert into unlinked sites in the genome that are preferentially in or near genes. As such, this will be a valuable assay system for the dissection of MITE transposition and a potentially powerful tagging system for gene discovery in eukaryotes.
17579247	A new method for the analysis of ubiquinones in various samples was developed using an HPLC system with postcolumn derivatization. Craven's reaction, a specific color reaction for the analysis of ubiquinones, was used in the system. Because the reaction progressed in organic solvents that contained ubiquinones and ethylcyanoacetate under an alkaline condition, the selectivity for ubiquinone detection was higher than that for ubiquinone detection using the nonderivatized ultraviolet detection system at 275 nm, a system widely used for the analysis of ubiquinones. The new detection system can avoid the adverse effects of impurities. Furthermore, it can confirm specificity by stopping the color reaction under a neutral condition. The detection limit for ubiquinone-10 was 1 ng (1.2 pmol). A good linearity for the calibration curve was observed in the range of 11.7 pmol to 11.7 nmol. To investigate the possible application of this method, various samples, such as soybean capsules used as a dietary supplement and biological materials (rice as well as bovine plasma and liver samples), were applied to the system and their ubiquinone contents were quantified. This method is thought to be widely and conveniently applicable for determining the level of ubiquinones because of its high selectivity for ubiquinone detection.
17579813	Starch is the major component of cereal grains. In rice, starch properties determine the eating and cooking quality. The dull endosperm of rice grains is a classical morphological and agronomical trait that has long been exploited for breeding and genetics study. To understand the molecular mechanism that regulates the starch biosynthesis in rice grains, we characterized a classic rice mutant dull endosperm1 (du1) and isolated Du1 through a map-based cloning approach. Du1, encoding a member of pre-mRNA processing (Prp1) family, is expressed mainly in panicles. Du1 specifically affects the splicing efficiency of Wx(b) and regulates starch biosynthesis by mediating the expression of starch biosynthesis genes. Analysis of du1wx shows that Du1 acts upstream of Wx(b). These results strongly suggest that Du1 may function as a regulator of the starch biosynthesis by affecting the splicing of Wx(b) and the expression of other genes involved in the rice starch biosynthetic pathways.
17579886	Sheath blight caused by the fungal pathogen Rhizoctonia solani is an emerging problem in rice production worldwide. To elucidate the molecular basis of rice defense to the pathogen, RNA isolated from R. solani-infected leaves of Jasmine 85 was used for both RL-SAGE library construction and microarray hybridization. RL-SAGE sequence analysis identified 20,233 and 24,049 distinct tags from the control and inoculated libraries, respectively. Nearly half of the significant tags (> or =2 copies) from both libraries matched TIGR annotated genes and KOME full-length cDNAs. Among them, 42% represented sense and 7% antisense transcripts, respectively. Interestingly, 60% of the library-specific (> or =10 copies) and differentially expressed (>4.0-fold change) tags were novel transcripts matching genomic sequence but not annotated genes. About 70% of the genes identified in the SAGE libraries showed similar expression patterns (up or down-regulated) in the microarray data obtained from three biological replications. Some candidate RL-SAGE tags and microarray genes were located in known sheath blight QTL regions. The expression of ten differentially expressed RL-SAGE tags was confirmed with RT-PCR. The defense genes associated with resistance to R. solani identified in this study are useful genomic materials for further elucidation of the molecular basis of the defense response to R. solani and fine mapping of target sheath blight QTLs.
17580629	Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a toxic and potentially carcinogenic fungal toxin found in a variety of food commodities. A new sensitive method has been developed to quantify OTA in cereal products by reversed-phase liquid chromatography (LC) with mass spectrometric (MS) detection. Ochratoxin B was used as the internal standard. OTA was extracted from cereal products with acetonitrile-water, and the extract was diluted with a buffer; the diluted extract was cleaned up on an immunoaffinity column before LC/MS analysis. Two multiple-reaction monitoring transitions were used, one for quantification of OTA and one for confirmation of identity. The method was shown to be highly sensitive, with a low decision limit (CCalpha) of 0.012 microg/kg and a detection capability (CCbeta) of 0.021 microg/kg. Within-laboratory repeatability coefficient of variation values were 7.1, 3.7, and 3.1%, and the corresponding recoveries were 104, 106, and 103% for rice samples fortified with OTA at 0.05, 0.10, and 0.15 microg/kg, respectively. Method validation was performed according to the criteria of European Commission Decision 2002/657/EC. All criteria as presented in the Commission Decision were fulfilled. This method is the first fully validated method using immunoaffinity chromatography for cleanup and MS for detection in the analysis of cereals for OTA. The method was also successfully applied to cereal-derived products. The analytical results for determination of the OTA content of cereal products commercially available in Hong Kong are also reported.
17580672	Isolation of sperm cells from higher plants is a basis for studying the mechanism of double fertilization. In this study, the isolation of rice sperm cells from pollen tube was conducted. When fresh pollen grains from nearly blooming flowers were put into a medium containing 20% sucrose, 10% polyethylene glycol 4500 (PEG 4500), 0.05% CaCl2, 0.01% boric acid, over 40% pollen grains germinated and formed a pollen tube. After pollen tubes were transformed into a broken solution containing 8% mannitol, the tubes broke and released tube cytoplasm including two sperm cells. However, both sperm cells were enrapt in the cytoplasm and could not be identified. When 0.5% cellulase and pectinase were added into the broken solution, two sperm cells were released from cytoplasm. Both sperm cells could be collected using micromanipulator. We also tried to isolate sperm cells using in vivo-in vitro method: styles were pollinated and pollen tubes were allowed to grow for 40 min in vivo. Then styles were cut near ovary and floated in the same medium above-mentioned for 1 h until tubes emerged from the cut end. The styles with pollen tube were transformed into the broken solution and released the content including two sperm cells.
17582094	Chinese Royal cheese, an ancient and attractive dairy product now in China, is made from milk coagulated with glutinous rice wine. In this paper, it was mainly studied on the proteolytic property toward proteins of bovine milk including caseins (CN) and whey proteins and the cleavage bond on the kappa-CN of rennet-like enzyme purified from glutinous rice wine by ion-exchange chromatography. Compared with whey protein, the rennet-like protease has substrate specificity toward CN but with different hydrolysis degrees among kappa-, alpha-, and beta-CN, and the alpha-CN was almost completely degraded, whereas kappa- and beta-CN partly showed hydrolysis in 12 h. The analysis for enzyme digestion by electrospray tandem mass spectrometry, Q-TOF2, and matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry revealed that the cleavage of protease from glutinous rice wine on kappa-CN mainly happens at the Thr94-Met95 bond, which is different from the most chymosin-sensitive bond, Phe105-Met106.
17582753	As the construction industry continues to recognise the importance of sustainable development, technologies such as controlled low-strength material (CLSM) have come to the forefront as viable means of safely and efficiently using by-product and waste materials in infrastructure applications. CLSM, also known as flowable fill, can be defined as an engineered backfill material containing fine aggregates, Portland cement, water and a by-product material. CLSM can provide an economically and technically feasible alternative to conventional fill materials because of potential cost savings related to its unique and often superior technical properties. In this present experimental study, three industrial by-products, namely fly ash (FA), rice husk ash (RHA) and quarry dust (QD), were used as constituent materials in CLSM. Mixture proportions were developed for CLSM containing these industrial by-products and were tested in the laboratory for various properties, such as flowability, unconfined compressive strength (UCS), stress-strain behaviour, density, water absorption and volume changes. Comparison between the two pozzolanic materials, namely FA and RHA, for their potential to produce an effective CLSM has been made. It can be observed from the results that by-product materials such as FA, RHA and QD can be successfully used in CLSM. This successful utilization of by-product materials is important to sustainable development and is the focus of this research.
17583501	3,3'-Diindolylmethane (DIM) derivatives 3a-k, prepared in one-pot from indoles 1a-k and hexamethylenetetramine (2) using ionic liquid [Bmim]BF(4) as eco-friendly recyclable solvent as well as catalyst, showed good plant growth promoting activity on Oryza sativa. Among the DIM derivatives synthesized 3c shows potent auxin like growth promoting activity.
17585303	The structure and diversity at the 3' ends of mRNA transcripts have been extensively characterized using several tag-based techniques in eukaryotes. However, the 5' ends of mRNA transcripts are not well understood, owing to a lack of efficient experimental approaches. We developed a new gene expression profiling method, called robust analysis of 5'-transcript ends (5' RATE), to rapidly isolate the 5' ends of mRNA transcripts. After ligating RNA oligo linkers to the 5' regions of decapped mRNA, cDNA is synthesized and digested with the restriction enzyme NlaIII. Ditags are formed by ligating two individual NlaIII tags, and are then PCR-amplified, purified and sequenced using a pyrosequencing approach. The 5'-RATE procedure is simple, fast and cost-effective because the complicated steps in comparative methods such as serial analysis of gene expression (including the formation of concatemers and their subsequent cloning and sequencing) have been eliminated. The longer 5'-RATE tags (>80 bp) provide more accurate matching to reference sequences for gene annotation and allow in-depth analysis of sequence diversity at the 5' regions of mRNA transcripts. Using our procedure, a 5'-RATE library with about 180,000 end sequences can be generated within a week. We have successfully applied the 5'-RATE method to characterize the transcriptome of various plant species including maize, rice and soybean. This method can be easily adapted to other eukaryotic organisms using the detailed procedures described in this protocol.
17585992	Early signalling events that control the process of heavy metal-induced cell death are largely unknown in plants. In mammals protein tyrosine phosphorylation plays an important role in the activation of programmed cell death. We thus examined the involvement of tyrosine phosphorylation in Cu-induced rice cell death. This investigation demonstrates that Cu induces cell death and DNA fragmentation in rice root cells. In the presence of Cu, the level of phosphotyrosine accumulation declined in the band of 45 kDa, p45. To analyze the role of tyrosine dephosphorylation for the regulation of Cu-induced cell death more precisely, we increased levels of tyrosine phosphorylation using the protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, sodium orthovanadate (Na(3)VO(4)). Treatment of rice roots with Na(3)VO(4) blocked Cu-induced cell death and protein tyrosine dephosphorylation. In addition, the antioxidant GSH and the calcium chelator EGTA significantly abolished Cu-induced cell death and protein tyrosine dephosphorylation. These results provide evidence that dephosphorylation of a tyrosine-phosphorylated protein, p45, is an important step in the Cu-triggered signalling transduction pathway.
17586267	A recent progress in plant molecular biology has led to enormous available data of DNA sequences, including complete nuclear genomes of Arabidopsis, rice, and poplar. On the other hand, in plant species with more complex genomes, containing widespread repetitive sequences, it is important to establish genomic resources that help us to focus on particular part of genomes. Laser technology enables to handle with specific subcellular structures or even individual chromosomes. Here we present a comprehensive protocol to isolate and characterize DNA sequences derived from the sex chromosomes of white campion (Silene latifolia). This dioecious plant has become the most favorite model to study the structure, function, and evolution of plant sex chromosomes due to a large and distinguishable size of both the X and Y chromosomes. The protocol includes a versatile technique to prepare metaphase chromosomes from either germinating seeds or in vitro cultured hairy roots. Such slides can be used for laser chromosome microdissection, fluorescence in situ-hybridization mapping, and immunostaining. Here we also demonstrate some applications of the laser-dissected chromosome template, especially a modified FAST-FISH technique to paint individual chromosomes, and construction and screening of chromosome-specific DNA libraries.
17586655	Bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) is a hexaploid species with A, B, and D ancestral genomes. Most bread wheat genes are present in the genome as triplicated homoeologous genes (homoeologs) derived from the ancestral species. Here, we report that both genetic and epigenetic alterations have occurred in the homoeologs of a wheat class E MADS box gene. Two class E genes are identified in wheat, wheat SEPALLATA (WSEP) and wheat LEAFY HULL STERILE1 (WLHS1), which are homologs of Os MADS45 and Os MADS1 in rice (Oryza sativa), respectively. The three wheat homoeologs of WSEP showed similar genomic structures and expression profiles. By contrast, the three homoeologs of WLHS1 showed genetic and epigenetic alterations. The A genome WLHS1 homoeolog (WLHS1-A) had a structural alteration that contained a large novel sequence in place of the K domain sequence. A yeast two-hybrid analysis and a transgenic experiment indicated that the WLHS1-A protein had no apparent function. The B and D genome homoeologs, WLHS1-B and WLHS1-D, respectively, had an intact MADS box gene structure, but WLHS1-B was predominantly silenced by cytosine methylation. Consequently, of the three WLHS1 homoeologs, only WLHS1-D functions in hexaploid wheat. This is a situation where three homoeologs are differentially regulated by genetic and epigenetic mechanisms.
17586658	Villin/gelsolin/fragmin superfamily proteins have been shown to function in tip-growing plant cells. However, genes encoding gelsolin/fragmin do not exist in the Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa) databases, and it is possible that these proteins are encoded by villin mRNA splicing variants. We cloned a 1006-bp full-length cDNA from Lilium longiflorum that encodes a 263-amino acid predicted protein sharing 100% identity with the N terminus of 135-ABP (Lilium villin) except for six C-terminal amino acids. The deduced 29-kD protein, Lilium ACTIN BINDING PROTEIN29 (ABP29), contains only the G1 and G2 domains and is the smallest identified member of the villin/gelsolin/fragmin superfamily. The purified recombinant ABP29 accelerates actin nucleation, blocks barbed ends, and severs actin filaments in a Ca(2+)- and/or phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-regulated manner in vitro. Microinjection of the protein into stamen hair cells disrupted transvacuolar strands whose backbone is mainly actin filament bundles. Transient expression of ABP29 by microprojectile bombardment of lily pollen resulted in actin filament fragmentation and inhibited pollen germination and tube growth. Our results suggest that ABP29 is a splicing variant of Lilium villin and a member of the villin/gelsolin/fragmin superfamily, which plays important roles in rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton during pollen germination and tube growth.
17586688	Starch synthase IIIa (SSIIIa)-deficient rice (Oryza sativa) mutants were generated using retrotransposon insertion and chemical mutagenesis. The lowest migrating SS activity bands on glycogen-containing native polyacrylamide gel, which were identified to be those for SSIIIa, were completely absent in these mutants, indicating that they are SSIIIa null mutants. The amylopectin B(2) to B(4) chains with degree of polymerization (DP) >/= 30 and the M(r) of amylopectin in the mutant were reduced to about 60% and 70% of the wild-type values, respectively, suggesting that SSIIIa plays an important part in the elongation of amylopectin B(2) to B(4) chains. Chains with DP 6 to 9 and DP 16 to 19 decreased while chains with DP 10 to 15 and DP 20 to 25 increased in the mutants amylopectin. These changes in the SSIIIa mutants are almost opposite images of those of SSI-deficient rice mutant and were caused by 1.3- to 1.7-fold increase of the amount of SSI in the mutants endosperm. Furthermore, the amylose content and the extralong chains (DP >/= 500) of amylopectin were increased by 1.3- and 12-fold, respectively. These changes in the composition in the mutants starch were caused by 1.4- to 1.7-fold increase in amounts of granules-bound starch synthase (GBSSI). The starch granules of the mutants were smaller with round shape, and were less crystalline. Thus, deficiency in SSIIIa, the second major SS isozyme in developing rice endosperm affected the structure of amylopectin, amylase content, and physicochemical properties of starch granules in two ways: directly by the SSIIIa deficiency itself and indirectly by the enhancement of both SSI and GBSSI gene transcripts.
17586689	We screened a rice (Oryza sativa L. 'Nipponbare') full-length cDNA expression library through functional complementation in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) to find novel cation transporters involved in salt tolerance. We found that expression of a cDNA clone, encoding the rice homolog of Shaker family K(+) channel KAT1 (OsKAT1), suppressed the salt-sensitive phenotype of yeast strain G19 (Deltaena1-4), which lacks a major component of Na(+) efflux. It also suppressed a K(+)-transport-defective phenotype of yeast strain CY162 (Deltatrk1Deltatrk2), suggesting the enhancement of K(+) uptake by OsKAT1. By the expression of OsKAT1, the K(+) contents of salt-stressed G19 cells increased during the exponential growth phase. At the linear phase, however, OsKAT1-expressing G19 cells accumulated less Na(+) than nonexpressing cells, but almost the same K(+). The cellular Na(+) to K(+) ratio of OsKAT1-expressing G19 cells remained lower than nonexpressing cells under saline conditions. Rice cells overexpressing OsKAT1 also showed enhanced salt tolerance and increased cellular K(+) content. These functions of OsKAT1 are likely to be common among Shaker K(+) channels because OsAKT1 and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) KAT1 were able to complement the salt-sensitive phenotype of G19 as well as OsKAT1. The expression of OsKAT1 was restricted to internodes and rachides of wild-type rice, whereas other Shaker family genes were expressed in various organs. These results suggest that OsKAT1 is involved in salt tolerance of rice in cooperation with other K(+) channels by participating in maintenance of cytosolic cation homeostasis during salt stress and thus protects cells from Na(+).
17587305	The OsNAC6 gene is a member of the NAC transcription factor gene family in rice. Expression of OsNAC6 is induced by abiotic stresses, including cold, drought and high salinity. OsNAC6 gene expression is also induced by wounding and blast disease. A transactivation assay using a yeast system demonstrated that OsNAC6 functions as a transcriptional activator, and transient localization studies with OsNAC6-sGFP fusion protein revealed its nuclear localization. Transgenic rice plants over-expressing OsNAC6 constitutively exhibited growth retardation and low reproductive yields. These transgenic rice plants showed an improved tolerance to dehydration and high-salt stresses, and also exhibited increased tolerance to blast disease. By utilizing stress-inducible promoters, such as the OsNAC6 promoter, it is hoped that stress-inducible over-expression of OsNAC6 in rice can improve stress tolerance by suppressing the negative effects of OsNAC6 on growth under normal growth conditions. The results of microarray analysis revealed that many genes that are inducible by abiotic and biotic stresses were upregulated in rice plants over-expressing OsNAC6. A transient transactivation assay showed that OsNAC6 activates the expression of at least two genes, including a gene encoding peroxidase. Collectively, these results indicate that OsNAC6 functions as a transcriptional activator in response to abiotic and biotic stresses in plants. We conclude that OsNAC6 may serve as a useful biotechnological tool for the improvement of stress tolerance in various kinds of plants.
17587382	During the breeding process of cultivated crops, resistance genes to pests and diseases are commonly introgressed from wild species. The size of these introgressions is predicted by theoretical models but has rarely been measured in cultivated varieties. By combining resistance tests with isogenic strains, genotyping and sequencing of different rice accessions, it was shown that, in the elite rice variety IR64, the resistance conferring allele of the rice blast resistance gene Pi33 was introgressed from the wild rice Oryza rufipogon (accession IRGC101508). Further characterization of this introgression revealed a large introgression at this locus in IR64 and the related variety IR36. The introgressed fragment represents approximately half of the short arm of rice chromosome 8. This is the first report of a large introgression in a cultivated variety of rice. Such a large introgression is likely to have been maintained during backcrossing only if a selection pressure was exerted on this genomic region. The possible traits that were selected are discussed.
17589752	To determine fluoride concentrations in the typical Brazilian meal (rice with beans) and in processed infant foods, and to estimate their contribution towards dental fluorosis. The foods were purchased at supermarkets in the cities of Piracicaba and Campinas, Southeastern Brazil. The processed infant foods were bought in 2001 and the rice and beans in 2003, and they were analyzed immediately. Three brands of rice, three brands of beans and 36 samples of infant foods were analyzed, divided into five groups: ready-to-eat, porridges, formulated foods, powdered milk and others. For the rice and beans, fluoride concentrations were determined in the raw grains and after they were cooked with fluoridated (0.7 ppm) or distilled water. All the fluoride analyses were performed using a specific electrode. A dose of 0.07 mg/kg/day was considered to be the upper limit of fluoride exposure in terms of fluorosis risks. The fluoride concentrations found in the grains of rice and beans were low. However, they increased 100 to 200-fold after cooking in fluoridated water. Even so, they were lower than what is found in some processed foods. A meal of rice and beans prepared with fluoridated water would be responsible for 29% of the threshold dose for fluoride intake in terms of acceptable fluorosis; the contribution from some processed foods reaches 45%. The typical Brazilian food, even when prepared with fluoridated water, is safer in terms of the risk of dental fluorosis than are some processed infant foods.
17590009	Homogeneity analysis was performed on four distinctive commercial lots, derived from the 2006 rice harvest in the United States. Lots that had previously been tested and suspected to have some level of LL601 were selected to determine lot homogeneity. LL601 infiltration in the lots was low and estimated to contain <0.01% (sigma = 0.026), 0.014% (sigma = 0.020), 0.054% (sigma = 0.043), and 0.074% (sigma = 0.031) LL601. Lots were analyzed statistically as a one-way classification, or one-factor experiment, to assess the presence of strata within the lot. A p value of 0.05 or lower is needed to declare statistical significance and would suggest significant differences among the samples. The data revealed p values ranging between 0.105 and 0.607. The calculated p values for all lots were greater than the critical value of 0.05. Samples taken from different locations throughout these four commercial lots did not show statistically significant stratifications within the lot.
17590100	to assess the relationship between different colorectal cancer risk factors in Albacete province. the incidence and prevalence of CC (colorectal cancer) in Albacete province during the years from 1992 to 1999 were calculated using data from the Surgery and Anatomical Pathology Departments of hospitals located in the province, both public ("Complejo Hospitalario Universitario de Albacete" and "Hospital Comarcal de Helln") and private ("Recoletas", "Sanatorios del Rosario" and "Santa Cristina"), and the provincial archives of the National Cancer Registry. Subsequently, the same calculation was made for each of the 33 Health Areas into which the province is organized. The three Health Areas with the highest incidence, and the three with the lowest incidence, of CC were selected for the study. By means of a systematic randomization of persons over 50 years, 445 persons were selected for the study using the census of the 25 villages and towns located in the high and low CC incidence areas. Subsequently we carried out the survey in these two zones: high and low incidence areas. Data were collected in Dbase IV, and the statistical analysis was carried out with the statistical package SPSS 10.1 for Windows. during the period studied 531 new cases of CC were registered, of which 291 (54.99%) were men. Mean rate was 15.9 per 100,000 persons/year. Highest incidence areas included Elche de la Sierra (30.2 per 100,000 persons/year), followed by Alcadozo (28.3), and Ontur (26.9). Lowest incidence areas were Ossa de Montiel (5.9), Munera (5.1), and Balazote (6.5). Out of 450 participants 414 (92%) filled out the questionnaire correctly. Variables including some kind of alcohol use (beer, wine, and coffee with brandy) are significantly associated with CC and multiply by more than one the risk for this disease. Some qualitative variables with statistically significant association increase, while some decrease, the risk of CC. For example, associated pathologies multiplies the risk of CC by 0.6, physical exercise by 0.3, moderate intake of alcohol by 0.5, olive oil intake by 0.7, and water intake by 0.3. Furthermore, a high intake of alcohol multiplies the risk of CC by 1.8, eggs and omelette by 2.95, pasta and rice by 2.15, blue fish by 1.8, meat and cold meats by 1.6, and having a first- or second-degree relative with cancer by 3. there is a significant relationship between colorectal cancer and familial cancer, physical activity, and the ingestion of alcohol, water, pasta, rice, and eggs.
17590331	Optimization of conidial production was achieved by response surface methodology (RSM), a powerful mathematical approach widely applied in the optimization of fermentation process, using the three substrates; rice, barley and sorghum at variable pH, moisture content and yeast extract concentrations. These three factors were found to be important, affecting Metarhizium anisopliae spore production. A 2(3) full factorial central composite design and RSM were applied to determine the optimal concentration of each variable. A second-order polynomial was determined by the multiple regression analysis of the experimental data. Moisture content of 75.68% for sorghum, 73.21% for barley and 22.34% for rice produced optimal results. Maximal conidial yield was recorded for rice at a pH of 7.01; at 7.06 for sorghum and at 6.76 for barley.
17591603	A computational analysis of RNA editing sites was performed on protein-coding sequences of plant mitochondrial genomes from Arabidopsis thaliana, Beta vulgaris, Brassica napus, and Oryza sativa. The distribution of nucleotides around edited and unedited cytidines was compared in 41 nucleotide segments and included 1481 edited cytidines and 21,390 unedited cytidines in the 4 genomes. The distribution of nucleotides was examined in 1, 2, and 3 nucleotide windows by comparison of nucleotide frequency ratios and relative entropy. The relative entropy analyses indicate that information is encoded in the nucleotide sequences in the 5 prime flank (-18 to -14, -13 to -10, -6 to -4, -2/-1) and the immediate 3 prime flanking nucleotide (+1), and these regions may be important in editing site recognition. The relative entropy was large when 2 or 3 nucleotide windows were analyzed, suggesting that several contiguous nucleotides may be involved in editing site recognition. RNA editing sites were frequently preceded by 2 pyrimidines or AU and followed by a guanidine (HYCG) in the monocot and dicot mitochondrial genomes, and rarely preceded by 2 purines. Analysis of chloroplast editing sites from a dicot, Nicotiana tabacum, and a monocot, Zea mays, revealed a similar distribution of nucleotides around editing sites (HYCA). The similarity of this motif around editing sites in monocots and dicots in both mitochondria and chloroplasts suggests that a mechanistic basis for this motif exists that is common in these different organelle and phylogenetic systems. The preferred sequence distribution around RNA editing sites may have an important impact on the acquisition of editing sites in evolution because the immediate sequence context of a cytidine residue may render a cytidine editable or uneditable, and consequently determine whether a T to C mutation at a specific position may be corrected by RNA editing. The distribution of editing sites in many protein-coding sequences is shown to be non-random with editing sites clustered in groups separated by regions with no editing sites. The sporadic distribution of editing sites could result from a mechanism of editing site loss by gene conversion utilizing edited sequence information, possibly through an edited cDNA intermediate.
17592727	B3 domain was identified as a novel DNA-binding motif specific to higher plant species. The B3 proteins play important roles in plant development. In the mutant W378, the mutant gene coding OsLFL1, a putative B3 transcription factor gene, was ectopically expressed. In this study, it was found that the flowering promoting gene Ehd1 and its putative downstream genes were all repressed by OsLFL1. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analyses suggest that OsLFL1 binds to the RY cis-elements (CATGCATG) in the promoter of the Ehd1 gene. Thus, ectopically expressed OsLFL1 might repress Ehd1 via binding directly to the RY cis-elements in its promoter.
17592758	Rice brown spot, caused by Bipolaris oryzae, can be a serious disease causing a considerable yield loss. Trichoderma harzianum is an effective biocontrol agent for a number of plant fungal diseases. Thus, this research was carried out to investigate the mechanisms of action by which T. harzianum antagonizes Bipolaris oryzae in vitro, and the efficacy of spray application of a spore suspension of T. harzianum for control of rice brown spot disease under field conditions. In vitro, the antagonistic behavior of T. harzianum resulted in the overgrowth of B. oryzae by T. harzianum, while the antifungal metabolites of T. harzianum completely prevented the linear growth of B. oryzae. Light and scanning electron microscope (SEM) observations showed no evidence that mycoparasitism contributed to the aggressive nature of the tested isolate of T. harzianum against B. oryzae. Under field conditions, spraying of a spore suspension of T. harzianum at 10(8)spore ml(-1) significantly reduced the disease severity (DS) and disease incidence (DI) on the plant leaves, and also significantly increased the grain yield, total grain carbohydrate, and protein, and led to a significant increase in the total photosynthetic pigments (chlorophyll a and b and carotenoids) in rice leaves.
17592888	The effects of temperature (15 and 25 degrees C), water activity (0.85, 0.90, 0.95, 0.98 y 0.995) and the interaction between Fusarium sambucinum and Phoma glomerata in rice extract agar on fungus growth were investigated. Fungi interactions were given a numerical score to obtain an Index of Dominance (ID) and to observe possible variations under different conditions of temperature and water activity (aw) changed. F. sambucinum and P. glomerata grew most rapidly -both individually and paired- at 0.995 aw and 25 degrees C. On the other hand, F. sambucinum presented higher growth rates than P. glomerata and it was dominant over P. glomerata under all the tested conditions. Water activity and temperature showed a significant effect on fungus growth.
17592893	A mycological survey was carried out at Entre Ros province, Argentina, on sorghum grain, maize, rice, soybean seeds and on freshly harvested and stored wheat. The isolation frequencies and relative densities of species belonging to genera Alternaria, Aspergillus, Fusarium, Penicillium and other fungi were calculated. Alternaria alternata was the major fungal species isolated from sorghum, rice, soybean seeds and on freshly harvested wheat, and a low incidence of Fusarium species was observed on the same substrates. In maize the major fungal species isolated was Fusarium verticillioides. The high incidence levels of A. alternata observed,suggest that it may be necessary to determine, among other mycotoxins, if Alternaria toxins occur in these commodities.
17593343	A recombinant inbred line population derived from a cross between Zhenshan 97 and Delong 208 was used to analyze the genetic basis of the cooking and eating quality of rice as reflected by 17 traits (or parameters). These traits include amylose content (AC), gel consistency (GC), alkali spreading value (ASV), cooked rice elongation (CRE), and 13 parameters from the viscosity profile. All the traits, except peak paste viscosity (PKV), time needed from gelatinization to peak (BAtime), and CRE, can be divided into two classes according to their interrelationship. The first class consists of AC, GC, and most of the paste viscosity parameters that form a major determinant of eating quality. The second class includes ASV, pasting temperature (Atemp) and pasting time (Atime), which characterize cooking process. We identified 26 QTL (quantitative trait locus or loci) in 2 years; nine QTL clusters emerged. The two major clusters, which correspond to the Wx and Alk loci, control the traits in the first and second classes, respectively. Some QTL are co-located for the traits belonging to the same class and also for the traits to a different class. The Wx locus also affects on ASV while the Alk locus also makes minor contributions to GC and some paste viscosity parameters. The QTL clusters on other chromosomes are similar to the Wx locus or Alk locus, although the variations they explained are relatively minor. QTL for CRE and PKV are dispersed and independent of the Wx locus. Low paste viscosity corresponds to low AC and soft gel, which represents good eating quality for most Chinese consumers; high ASV and low Atemp, together with reduced time to gelatinization and PKV, indicate preferred cooking quality. The genetic basis of Atemp, Atime, BAtime, peak temperature, peak time, paste viscosity at 95 degrees C, and final paste viscosity is newly examined to reveal a complete and dynamic viscosity profile.
17593368	We have established a reproducible procedure for transformation of shoot apices and regeneration of transgenic plants for two indica rice cultivars, white ponni (WP) and Pusa Basmathi 1 (PB 1). Four-day-old shoot apex explants were transformed by cocultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA 101 harbouring a binary plasmid pRIT1. The vector contained an improved hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) gene for hygromycin resistance driven by actin 1 promoter and the reporter gene beta-glucuronidase intron (INT-GUS) controlled by CaMV 35S promoter. Rice shoots were induced on media containing 0.1 mg/l napthalene acetic acid (NAA), 1.0 mg/l kinetin (kn), 1.0 mg/l N(6)-benzyleaminopurin (BAP), 300 mg/l casaminoacid, 500 mg/l proline, 50 mg/l hygromycin and 500 mg/l cefotaxime. Transgenic plants were raised in pots and seeds were collected. Histochemical and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses of field established transgenic rice plants and their offsprings confirmed the presence of GUS gene. Integration of T-DNA into the genome of putative transgenics was further confirmed by southern analysis. The transformation efficiency of WP was found to be ranging from 5.6 to 6.2% whereas in the case of PB1, it was from 7 to 8%. Progeny analysis of these plants showed a pattern of classical Mendelian inheritance for both hpt and GUS gene.
17593523	Using a TaqMan gene probe targeting the 16S rDNA of acidophilic hydrogen-producing bacteria (HPB), the abundance of this HPB in the biomass was found to increase from 0.02 to 72% in a single batch treating rice slurry waste at pH 4.5 over 130 h. The corresponding abundances were 4.4% in the batch operated at pH 5.0 and 0.01-0.02% at pH 5.5-6.5. During the growth phase, the generation time for the acidophilic HPB at pH 4.5 averaged 3.5 h.
17594063	The area between the upper part of the leaf sheath and the basal portion of the leaf blade contains several specialized organs, such as the laminar joint, auricle and ligule. Here we report the identification of T-DNA insertional mutant lines that lack all of these organs. The gene knocked out in the mutant lines encodes a protein that contains a SBP (SQUAMOSA promoter Binding Protein)-domain and is highly homologous to the maize LIGULELESS1 (LG1) gene. At the amino acid sequence level, the OsLG1 protein is 69% identical to maize LG1 and 78% identical to barley LG1. We named the rice gene OsLIGULELESS1 (OsLG1). Transient expression of an OsLG1:RFP (Red Fluorescent Protein) fusion protein indicated that the protein is localized to the nucleus. Transgenic plants harboring the OsLG1 promoter:GUS (beta-glucuronidase) reporter gene construct display preferential expression in developing laminar joint regions and meristemic regions. The gene is also weakly expressed in the ligule, auricles, and leaf sheaths at the basal region. These results indicate that OsLG1 is a transcriptional factor that plays an important role in building the laminar joint between leaf blade and leaf sheath boundary, thereby controlling ligule and auricle development.
17594469	To isolate new fungal strains from subtropical soils and to identify those that produce high cellulase activity. To select microbial strains producing thermostable cellulases with potential application in industry. The new strains Penicillium sp. CR-316 and Penicillium sp. CR-313 have been identified and selected because they secreted a high level of cellulase in media supplemented with rice straw. Analysis by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, isoelectric focussing and zymography showed that the studied strains secreted multiple enzymes that hydrolyse cellulose. Cellulase activity of Penicillium sp. CR-316, the strain showing higher production, was analysed. Optimum temperature and pH of carboxymethyl cellulase activity were 65 degrees C and pH 4.5, respectively. Activity remained stable after incubation at 60 degrees C and pH 4.5 for 3 h. Fungal strains that secrete high levels of cellulase activity have been characterized and selected from soil. The isolated strains have complex sets of enzymes for cellulose degradation. Crude cellulase produced by Penicillium sp. CR-316 showed activity and stability at high temperature. Two fungal strains with biotechnological potential have been isolated. The strains secrete high levels of cellulase, and one of them, Penicillium sp. CR-316, produces a thermostable cellulase, that makes it a good candidate for industrial applications.
17595297	Flowering time is a fundamental trait of maize adaptation to different agricultural environments. Although a large body of information is available on the map position of quantitative trait loci for flowering time, little is known about the molecular basis of quantitative trait loci. Through positional cloning and association mapping, we resolved the major flowering-time quantitative trait locus, Vegetative to generative transition 1 (Vgt1), to an approximately 2-kb noncoding region positioned 70 kb upstream of an Ap2-like transcription factor that we have shown to be involved in flowering-time control. Vgt1 functions as a cis-acting regulatory element as indicated by the correlation of the Vgt1 alleles with the transcript expression levels of the downstream gene. Additionally, within Vgt1, we identified evolutionarily conserved noncoding sequences across the maize-sorghum-rice lineages. Our results support the notion that changes in distant cis-acting regulatory regions are a key component of plant genetic adaptation throughout breeding and evolution.
17596180	The tissue-specific expression of transgenes is essential in plant breeding programmes to avoid the fitness costs caused by constitutive expression of a target gene. However, knowledge on the molecular mechanisms of tissue-specific gene expression and practicable tissue-specific promoters is limited. In this study, we identified the cis-acting elements of a tissue-specific promoter from rice, P(D54O), and tested the application of original and modified P(D54O) and its cis-elements in the regulation of gene expression. P(D54O) is a green tissue-specific promoter. Five novel tissue-specific cis-elements (LPSE1, LPSE2, LPSRE1, LPSRE2, PSE1) were characterized from P(D54O). LPSE1 activated gene expression in leaf and young panicle. LPSRE2 suppressed gene expression in leaf, root, young panicle and stem, and PSE1 suppressed gene expression in young panicle and stem. LPSRE1 and LPSE2 had dual roles in the regulation of tissue-specific gene expression; both functioned as activators in leaf, but LPSRE1 acted as a repressor in stem and LPSE2 as a repressor in young panicle and root. Transgenic rice plants carrying cry1Ac encoding Bacillus thuringiensis endotoxin, regulated by P(D54O), were resistant to leaf-folders, with no Cry1Ac protein found in endosperm or embryo. A reporter gene regulated by a series of truncated P(D54O) showed various tissue-specific expression patterns. Different fragments of P(D54O) fused with the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter suppressed 35S-regulated gene expression in various tissues. P(D54O), truncated P(D54O) and the tissue-specific cis-elements provide useful tools for the regulation of tissue-specific gene expression in rice breeding programmes.
17597080	Plant HSP101 has dual activities, first, in conferring thermotolerance, and secondly, in serving as a translational activator. In this study, we introduced Oryza sativa Hsp101 (osHsp101) cDNA into tobacco by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Stable integration and expression of the transgene into the tobacco genome was demonstrated by Southern and Western blot analysis. Overexpression of osHSP101 had no noticeable effect on growth or development of the transgenic plants. Homozygous T(2) transgenic plants with overexpressed osHSP101 survived heat treatment better than untransformed control plants. In addition, taking advantage of conferring basal thermotolerance by plant HSP101, we were able to demonstrate the feasibility of using osHsp101 as a selection marker and select the transformants under high temperature in tobacco leaf disc transformation mediated by Agrobacterium. Furthermore, transgenic tobacco plants with overexpressed osHSP101 were able to enhance luciferase expression up to 2.9-fold more than untransformed plants in the progeny of reciprocally crossed with omega-luciferase reporter lines.
17597396	RNA recognition motifs as important regulators of gene expression are highly conserved in animals and plants. The FCA floral promotion gene in Arabidopsis encodes a protein, containing two RNA recognition motifs (RRM) and a WW protein interaction domain. Here we isolated FCA cDNA from rice. FCA in rice (rFCA) was homologous to FCA-gamma of Arabidopsis and contained conserved domains. To investigate the function of RRM domain, fragment RRM1 and RRM2 of rFCA were introduced into rice subspecies Oryza sativa L. subsp. Indica var. 9311 and another rice subspecies Oryza sativa L. subsp. Japonica var. zhonghua11 transformation. Two transgenic lines exhibited similar phenotypes, flowering time delay, seed size and cell volume of transgenic plants was increased. These results showed that constitutive expression of RRMs could regulate cellular size. The patterns of overexpression of two RRM domains and their similar morphologies indicate they may play a same role.
17598077	Nuclear Factor Y (NF-Y) is a trimeric complex that binds to the CCAAT box, a ubiquitous eukaryotic promoter element. The three subunits NF-YA, NF-YB and NF-YC are represented by single genes in yeast and mammals. However, in model plant species (Arabidopsis and rice) multiple genes encode each subunit providing the impetus for the investigation of the NF-Y transcription factor family in wheat. A total of 37 NF-Y and Dr1 genes (10 NF-YA, 11 NF-YB, 14 NF-YC and 2 Dr1) in Triticum aestivum were identified in the global DNA databases by computational analysis in this study. Each of the wheat NF-Y subunit families could be further divided into 4-5 clades based on their conserved core region sequences. Several conserved motifs outside of the NF-Y core regions were also identified by comparison of NF-Y members from wheat, rice and Arabidopsis. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed that some of the wheat NF-Y genes were expressed ubiquitously, while others were expressed in an organ-specific manner. In particular, each TaNF-Y subunit family had members that were expressed predominantly in the endosperm. The expression of nine NF-Y and two Dr1 genes in wheat leaves appeared to be responsive to drought stress. Three of these genes were up-regulated under drought conditions, indicating that these members of the NF-Y and Dr1 families are potentially involved in plant drought adaptation. The combined expression and phylogenetic analyses revealed that members within the same phylogenetic clade generally shared a similar expression profile. Organ-specific expression and differential response to drought indicate a plant-specific biological role for various members of this transcription factor family.
17598089	A coprecipitation method using sample constituents as carrier precipitants was developed that can remove molybdenum, which interferes with the determination of cadmium in grain samples via isotope dilution inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ID-ICPMS). Samples were digested with HNO3, HF, and HClO4, and then purified 6 M sodium hydroxide solution was added to generate colloidal hydrolysis compounds, mainly magnesium hydroxide. Cadmium can be effectively separated from molybdenum because the cadmium forms hydroxides and adsorbs onto and/or is occluded in the colloid, while the molybdenum does not form hydroxides or adsorb onto the hydrolysis colloid. The colloid was separated by centrifugation and then dissolved with 0.2 M HNO3 solution to recover the cadmium. The recovery of Cd achieved using the coprecipitation was >97%, and the removal efficiency of Mo was approximately 99.9%. An extremely low procedural blank (below the detection limit of ICPMS) was achieved by purifying the 6 M sodium hydroxide solution via Mg coprecipitation using Mg(NO3)2 solution. The proposed method was applied to two certified reference materials (NIST SRM 1567a wheat flour and SRM 1568a rice flour) and CCQM-P64 soybean powder. Good analytical results with small uncertainties were obtained for all samples. This method is simple and reliable for the determination of Cd in grain samples by ID-ICPMS.
17598304	Trichogramma zahiri Polaszek sp. n. is described from Bangladesh. It has been collected at several localities from the major pest of rice Dicladispa armigera (Olivier) on which it has an important controlling impact. Trichogramma zahiri is compared with known Trichogramma species from the region, and diagnostic differences are presented. Data on developmental period, adult longevity, egg-laying frequency, host egg age preference and seasonal parasitism rate are presented and discussed. Other records of parasitoids of D. armigera are briefly reviewed and discussed.
17598561	Fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), is a major economic pest throughout the Western Hemisphere. Populations can be subdivided into two morphologically identical but genetically distinct strains (corn-strain and rice-strain) that differ in their host plant preferences. These strains can be distinguished by using polymorphisms in the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase 1 gene. Additional sequence analysis of this locus identified two sites that were highly polymorphic in the corn-strain population and that produced four different haplotype subgroups. Comparisons of the frequency distribution of these haplotypes found no seasonal or plant host specificities, but they did demonstrate that the Brazil corn-strain population is different from corn-strain fall armyworm found in Florida. The development of a rapid means of distinguishing fall armyworm populations originating from Brazil versus Florida provides an opportunity for investigating and comparing the genetic complexity and long-range movements of this important agricultural pest.
17599386	The effects of pH, organic acids, and competitive cations on Hg(2+) desorption were studied. Three representative soils for rice production in China, locally referred to as a yellowish red soil (YRS), purplish clayey soil (PCS), and silty loam soil (SLS) and classified as Gleyi-Stagnic Anthrosols in FAO/UNESCO nomenclature, were, respectively, collected from Jiaxin County, Deqing County, and Xiasha District of Hangzhou City, Zhejiang Province. Most of the added Hg(2+) was adsorbed at low initial concentrations (<2 mg l(-1)). Desorption of the adsorbed Hg(2+) in 0.01M KCl (simulating soil solution) was minimal, but was significantly enhanced by the change of pH, and the presence of organic acids or competitive cations. The desorption of Hg(2+) in the soils decreased with pH from 3.0 to 5.0, leveled off at pH 5.0-8.0, but increased with pH from 7.0 to 9.0. The presence of organic ligands enhanced Hg(2+) desorption in the soils except for YRS, in which the addition of tartaric, malic, or oxalic acid reduced Hg(2+) desorption at low concentrations (<10(-4)M), but Hg(2+) desorption generally increased with organic acid concentration. Citric acid was most effective in increasing Hg(2+) desorption, followed by tartaric acid and malic acid; and oxalic acid was the least effective. Desorption of adsorbed Hg(2+) increased with increasing concentrations of added Cu(2+) or Zn(2+). Applied Cu(2+) increased Hg(2+) desorption more than Zn(2+) at the same loading rate. The effects of organic acids and competitive cations on Hg desorption in soil-water system are related to their concentrations, basic chemical properties, and soil properties.
17599387	A study was conducted to investigate the accumulation and distribution of arsenic in different fractions of rice grain (Oryza sativa L.) collected from arsenic affected area of Bangladesh. The agricultural soil of study area has become highly contaminated with arsenic due to the excessive use of arsenic-rich underground water (0.070+/-0.006 mg l(-1), n=6) for irrigation. Arsenic content in tissues of rice plant and in fractions of rice grain of two widely cultivated rice varieties, namely BRRI dhan28 and BRRI hybrid dhan1, were determined. Regardless of rice varieties, arsenic content was about 28- and 75-folds higher in root than that of shoot and raw rice grain, respectively. In fractions of parboiled and non-parboiled rice grain of both varieties, the order of arsenic concentrations was; rice hull>bran-polish>brown rice>raw rice>polish rice. Arsenic content was higher in non-parboiled rice grain than that of parboiled rice. Arsenic concentrations in parboiled and non-parboiled brown rice of BRRI dhan28 were 0.8+/-0.1 and 0.5+/-0.0 mg kg(-1) dry weight, respectively while those of BRRI hybrid dhan1 were 0.8+/-0.2 and 0.6+/-0.2 mg kg(-1) dry weight, respectively. However, parboiled and non-parboiled polish rice grain of BRRI dhan28 contained 0.4+/-0.0 and 0.3+/-0.1 mg kg(-1) dry weight of arsenic, respectively while those of BRRI hybrid dhan1 contained 0.43+/-0.01 and 0.5+/-0.0 mg kg(-1) dry weight, respectively. Both polish and brown rice are readily cooked for human consumption. The concentration of arsenic found in the present study is much lower than the permissible limit in rice (1.0 mg kg(-1)) according to WHO recommendation. Thus, rice grown in soils of Bangladesh contaminated with arsenic of 14.5+/-0.1 mg kg(-1) could be considered safe for human consumption.
17599908	The EL2 gene of rice (Oryza sativa), previously classified as early response gene against the potent biotic elicitor N-acetylchitoheptaose and encoding a short polypeptide with unknown function, was identified as a novel cell cycle regulatory gene related to the recently reported SIAMESE (SIM) gene of Arabidopsis thaliana. Iterative two-hybrid screens, in vitro pull-down assays, and fluorescence resonance energy transfer analyses showed that Orysa; EL2 binds the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) CDKA1;1 and D-type cyclins. No interaction was observed with the plant-specific B-type CDKs. The amino acid motif ELERFL was identified to be essential for cyclin, but not for CDK binding. Orysa;EL2 impaired the ability of Orysa; CYCD5;3 to complement a budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) triple CLN mutant, whereas recombinant protein inhibited CDK activity in vitro. Moreover, Orysa;EL2 was able to rescue the multicellular trichome phenotype of sim mutants of Arabidopsis, unequivocally demonstrating that Orysa;EL2 operates as a cell cycle inhibitor. Orysa;EL2 mRNA levels were induced by cold, drought, and propionic acid. Our data suggest that Orysa;EL2 encodes a new type of plant CDK inhibitor that links cell cycle progression with biotic and abiotic stress responses.
17600089	One of the first responses of plants to microbial attack is the production of extracellular superoxide surrounding infection sites. Here, we report that Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, undergoes an oxidative burst of its own during plant infection, which is associated with its development of specialized infection structures called appressoria. Scavenging of these oxygen radicals significantly delayed the development of appressoria and altered their morphology. We targeted two superoxide-generating NADPH oxidase-encoding genes, Nox1 and Nox2, and demonstrated genetically, that each is independently required for pathogenicity of M. grisea. Deltanox1 and Deltanox2 mutants are incapable of causing plant disease because of an inability to bring about appressorium-mediated cuticle penetration. The initiation of rice blast disease therefore requires production of superoxide by the invading pathogen.
17601161	Though recessive resistance is well-studied in viral systems, little is understood regarding the phenomenon in plant-bacterial interactions. The Oryza sativa-Xanthomonas oryzae pv. orzyae pathosystem provides an excellent opportunity to examine recessive resistance in plant-bacterial interactions, in which nine of 30 documented resistance (R) genes are recessively inherited. Infestations of X. oryzae pv. oryzae, the causal agent of bacterial blight, result in significant crop loss and damage throughout South and Southeast Asia. Two recently cloned novel recessive R genes, xa5 and xa13, have yielded insights to this system. Like their viral counterparts, these bacterial recessive R gene products do not conform to the five commonly described classes of R proteins. New findings suggest that such genes may more aptly be viewed as mutations in dominant susceptibility alleles and may also function in a gene-for-gene manner. In this review, we discuss recent accomplishments in the understanding of recessively inherited R genes in the rice-bacterial blight pathosystem and suggest a new model for the function of recessive resistance in plant-bacterial interactions.
17601170	Expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes is part of the plant's natural defense response against pathogen attack. The PRms gene encodes a fungal-inducible PR protein from maize. Here, we demonstrate that expression of PRms in transgenic rice confers broad-spectrum protection against pathogens, including fungal (Magnaporthe oryzae, Fusarium verticillioides, and Helminthosporium oryzae) and bacterial (Erwinia chrysanthemi) pathogens. The PRms-mediated disease resistance in rice plants is associated with an enhanced capacity to express and activate the natural plant defense mechanisms. Thus, PRms rice plants display a basal level of expression of endogenous defense genes in the absence of the pathogen. PRms plants also exhibit stronger and quicker defense responses during pathogen infection. We also have found that sucrose accumulates at higher levels in leaves of PRms plants. Sucrose responsiveness of rice defense genes correlates with the pathogen-responsive priming of their expression in PRms rice plants. Moreover, pretreatment of rice plants with sucrose enhances resistance to M. oryzae infection. Together, these results support a sucrose-mediated priming of defense responses in PRms rice plants which results in broad-spectrum disease resistance.
17601611	A mutant with abnormal hull was first discovered from a twin-seedling strain W2555 in rice (Oryza sativa L.). The mutant had sparse branches and decreased number of florets from the base to the peak. Frequently, the florets at the top of the panicle did not develop completely. The underdeveloped florets often showed slender and white in their life cycle. Genetic analysis indicated that the mutant traits were controlled by a single recessive gene (temporarily designated as ah). ah gene controlled the development of inflorescence meristem and the flower organ. The florets of mutant showed degenerated lemma and palea. Stamens and lodicules were homeoticly transformed into pistils and palea/lemma-like structures, respectively. It seemed that ah mutant phenotypes of the homeotic conversions in lodicules and stamens were very similar to that of the B loss-of-function spw1 gene reported previously in rice.
17601827	Benzothiadiazole (BTH) is a so-called plant activator and protects plants from diseases by activating the salicylic acid (SA) signaling pathway. By microarray screening, we identified BTH- and SA-inducible WRKY transcription factor (TF) genes that were upregulated within 3 h after BTH treatment. Overexpression of one of them, WRKY45, in rice (Oryza sativa) markedly enhanced resistance to rice blast fungus. RNA interference-mediated knockdown of WRKY45 compromised BTH-inducible resistance to blast disease, indicating that it is essential for BTH-induced defense responses. In a transient expression system, WRKY45 activated reporter gene transcription through W-boxes. Epistasis analysis suggested that WRKY45 acts in the SA signaling pathway independently of NH1, a rice ortholog of Arabidopsis thaliana NPR1, which distinguishes WRKY45 from known Arabidopsis WRKY TFs. Two defense-related genes, encoding a glutathione S-transferase and a cytochrome P450, were found to be regulated downstream of WRKY45 but were not regulated by NH1, consistent with the apparent independence of the WRKY45- and NH1-dependent pathways. Defense gene expression in WRKY45-overexpressed rice plants varied with growth conditions, suggesting that some environmental factor(s) acts downstream of WRKY45 transcription. We propose a role for WRKY45 in BTH-induced and SA-mediated defense signaling in rice and its potential utility in improving disease resistance of rice, an importance food resource worldwide.
17602647	Two flavone O-glycosides were isolated from allelopathic rice seedlings and have been identified as 5,4'-dihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxy-7-O-beta-glucopyranosylflavone and 7,4'-dihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxy-5-O-beta-glucopyranosylflavone. Considerable levels of these glycosides could be found in allelopathic rice tissues. They could not be detected in the soils growing these allelopathic rice seedlings. Only their aglycone, 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone, could be found in the soil. Further experiments showed that two flavone O-glycosides were exuded from allelopathic rice roots to the rihzosphere and then transformed into their aglycone form, that is, 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone, with a great diversity of biological activities on associated weeds and microbes by soil interactions once released. The glycosides degraded rapidly (t1/2 < 2 h), whereas their aglycone was more resistant toward degradation in paddy soils, in which the half-life (t1/2) at low (25 mug/g) and high (200 mug/g) doses reached 19.86 +/- 3.64 h (r 2 = 0.97) and 28.78 +/- 3.72 h (r 2 = 0.98), respectively. Furthermore, the mobility of both glycosides and their aglycone in paddy soil was evaluated by soil TLC with bioassay. The mobility of the glycosides (Rf = 0.418 +/- 0.069, n = 18) is higher than that of the aglycone (Rf = 0.361 +/- 0.048, n = 18). The results suggested that two flavone O-glycosides are formed in rice biosynthesis and that storage of the allelochemicals and their aglycone 5,7,4'-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone is the agent of alleloapthic rice which interferes with weeds or microbes in paddy soil.
17603095	Publication of the rice genome sequence has allowed an in-depth analysis of genome organization in a model monocot plant species. This has provided a powerful tool for genome analysis in large-genome unsequenced agriculturally important monocot species such as wheat, barley, rye, Lolium, etc. Previous data have indicated that the majority of genes in large-genome monocots are located toward the ends of chromosomes in gene-rich regions that undergo high frequencies of recombination. Here we demonstrate that a substantial component of the coding sequences in monocots is localized proximally in regions of very low and even negligible recombination frequencies. The implications of our findings are that during domestication of monocot plant species selection has concentrated on genes located in the terminal regions of chromosomes within areas of high recombination frequency. Thus a large proportion of the genetic variation available for selection of superior plant genotypes has not been exploited. In addition our findings raise the possibility of the evolutionary development of large supergene complexes that confer a selective advantage to the individual.
17603754	An interspecific hybrid medaka (rice fish) between Oryzias latipes and O. hubbsi is embryonically lethal. To gain an insight into the cellular and molecular mechanisms that cause the abnormalities occurring in the hybrid medaka, we investigated the behavior of chromosomes and the expression patterns of proteins responsible for the chromosome behavior. The number of chromosomes in the hybrid embryos gradually decreased to nearly half, since abnormal cell division with lagging chromosomes at anaphase eliminated the chromosomes from the cells. The chromosome lagging occurred at the first cleavage and continued throughout embryogenesis even after the midblastula transition. Fluorescent in-situ hybridization analyses revealed that the chromosomes derived from O. hubbsi are preferentially eliminated in both O. latipes-hubbsi and O. hubbsi-latipes embryos. Whole-mount immunocytochemical analyses using antibodies against alpha-tubulin, gamma-tubulin, inner centromere protein, Cdc20, Mad2, phospho-histone H3 and cohesin subunits (SMC1alpha, SMC3 and Rad21) showed that the expression patterns of these proteins in the hybrid embryos are similar to those in the wild-type embryos, except for phospho-histone H3. Phospho-histone H3 present on chromosomes at metaphase was lost from normally separated chromosomes at anaphase, whereas it still existed on lagging chromosomes at anaphase, indicating that the lagging chromosomes remain in the metaphase state even when the cell has proceeded to the anaphase state. On the basis of these findings, we discuss the cellular and molecular mechanisms of chromosome elimination in the hybrid medaka.
17604193	The objectives of this study were to describe the spatio-temporal pattern of an epidemic of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) in Vietnam and to identify potential risk factors for the introduction and maintenance of infection within the poultry population. The results indicate that during the time period 2004-early 2006 a sequence of three epidemic waves occurred in Vietnam as distinct spatial and temporal clusters. The risk of outbreak occurrence increased with a greater percentage of rice paddy fields, increasing domestic water bird and chicken density. It increased with reducing distance to higher population density aggregations, and in the third epidemic wave with increasing percentage of aquaculture. The findings indicate that agri-livestock farming systems involving domestic water birds and rice production in river delta areas are important for the maintenance and spread of infection. While the government's control measures appear to have been effective in the South and Central parts of Vietnam, it is likely that in the North of Vietnam the vaccination campaign led to transmission of infection which was subsequently brought under control.
1760445	The aim of the present work was to show that cottonseed flour introduced into rehabilitation diets is not nutritionally harmful. The cottonseed flour obtained from glandless seeds contains traces of gossypol. As gossypol is known to have pathological hepatic and testicular actions, the effects on hepatic variables and on the histological appearance of liver and testis of diets containing cottonseed flour were compared with those without cottonseed flour. Seventy growing male Wistar rats were divided into two groups. The control group (C) received a balanced diet (200 g casein + 3 g methionine/kg) for 78 d and the experimental group was fed on a low-protein diet (20 g casein + 3 g methionine/kg) for 29 d. After the period of protein deprivation, the depleted rats were divided into four groups and each group was refed with a different diet, for 49 d: a balanced diet (200 g casein + 3 g methionine/kg; rC), maize-soya-bean flour-milk (60:30:5, by wt; MSM), maize-cottonseed flour-milk (60:30:5, by wt; MCM) or rice-cottonseed flour-milk (60:30:5, by wt; RCM). Each diet was supplemented with a vitamin mixture (10 g/kg) and a salt mixture (40 g/kg). In the liver, protein, total lipid, fatty acid composition and nucleic acid contents were determined after 29 d of protein deprivation and after 2, 14, 29, 49 d of refeeding. The refeeding of rats with either diet MSM or RCM promoted a higher growth than that with diet MCM or diet rC. In all groups, a progressive decrease in relative liver weights with age was observed. The highest values were obtained with diets rC and MSM. After 49 d of refeeding, the lowest values for lipid, DNA and protein:RNA and the highest values for RNA and RNA:DNA were obtained with the cottonseed diets (MCM and RCM). Rats fed on the cottonseed-flour diets for a 49 d period after severe protein malnutrition showed no change in size or shape of their hepatocytes compared with those obtained with the control casein diet, and all stages of spermatogenesis occurred normally and spermatozoa were accurately formed. Therefore, our findings show that a low level of gossypol administrated during 49 d, even to an organism weakened by protein malnutrition, does not affect hepatic variables and the histological appearance of liver and testis.
17604836	As a new emerging environmental contaminant, perchlorate has prompted people to pay more attention. The presence of perchlorate in the human body can result in improper regulation of metabolism for adults. Furthermore, it also causes developmental and behavioral problems for infants and children because it can interfere with iodide uptake into the thyroid tissue. In this paper, perchlorate in sewage sludge, rice, bottled drinking water and milk was detected for investigating the perchlorate pollution status in China. The places, where the samples were collected, cover most regions of China. Therefore, the final data on perchlorate levels will give an indication of the perchlorate pollution status in China. The final determination of perchlorate was performed by ion chromatography-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry with negative mode. The concentration of perchlorate in sewage sludge, rice, bottled drinking water and milk was in the range of 0.56-379.9 microg/kg, 0.16-4.88 mug/kg, 0.037-2.013 microg/L and 0.30-9.1 microg/L, respectively. The results show that perchlorate has been widespread in China.
17607650	A 38-year-old previously healthy Swiss presented with acute onset of progressive weakness in his legs in the morning hours after a carbohydrate-rich meal the preceding evening. Examination on admission revealed symmetrical paresis affecting the upper and lower limbs without involvement of the respiratory muscles. Hyperthyroidism was suspected. Similar symptoms three weeks before admission had earlier resolved spontaneously. Laboratory tests revealed severe hypokalemia of 1.4 mmol/l. Hyperthyroidism, caused by Grave's disease, was confirmed and a diagnosis of hypokalemic thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) was made. TREATMENT AND FOLLOW-UP: After initiating potassium replacement paresis was observed to disappear within three hours. Symptomatic treatment with propranolol and thyrostatic treatment with carbimazole prevented further episodes of paresis. Hypokalemic thyrotoxic periodic paresis is a rare but increasingly common medical condition among people living in Western Europe. Diagnostically one's attention should turn to TPP at the presentation of acute paresis in combination with hypokalemia, especially in young men. Serious cardio-pulmonary complications can be avoided with early diagnosis and treatment.
17608200	In the present paper, a method for the determination of trace elements such as Hg and As in biological samples by HG-ICP-AES was presented. Under the optimum experimental conditions and instrumental operation parameters, both the RSDs of Hg and As with the method were below 3%, and the detection limits were 0.6 ng Hg x mL(-1) and 0.8 ng As x mL(-1), respectively, satisfying the demand of detecting trace Hg and As concentration in biological samples. Meanwhile, the analytical results of Hg and As in the national standard reference samples such as human hair (GBW 09101), rice (GBW 08503) and tea leaf (GBW 08505) were in good agreement with the certified values, with RSDs around 5%. Using the HG-ICP-AES method, the concentrations of Hg and As in human hair samples of polymetallic mining area in western Hunan province were determined, and the result shows that human in the mining area was exposed to high levels of Hg and As. The concentrations of Hg and As in the mining area were 1.290 and 1.865 microg x g(-1) respectively, 3.59 and 2.44 times higher than those in the control area, respectively.
17608495	We analyzed the DNA fragments extracted from four rice vermicelli products. The Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) rice line, which has a construct similar to the GM Shanyou 63 line, was detected in some vermicelli products by identification of the junction region sequence between rice Act1 promoter and the Cry1Ac gene, and that between Cry1Ac and nos. In addition, we also detected a different Bt rice line by means of the junction region sequence between the maize ubiquitin promoter and cry1Ab gene and that between the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the hygromycin phosphotransferase in some vermicelli products. Accordingly, we for the first time have detected the two transgenic Bt rice lines contaminating rice vermicelli samples. Furthermore, we developed a duplex real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method for the simultaneous detection of both Bt rice lines.
17609219	Dihydrosphingosine C4 hydroxylase is a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of phytosphingosine, a major constituent of sphingolipids in plants and yeasts. The rice genome contains five homologue genes for dihydrosphingosine C4 hydroxylase, DSH1-DSH5, whose gene products show high degrees of homology to the yeast counterpart, SUR2. Among them, expression of DSH1, DSH2 and DSH4 was detected, and DSH1 and DSH4 complement the yeast sur2 mutation. The DSH1 gene was specifically and abundantly expressed in vascular bundles and apical meristems. In particular, very strong expression was detected in the stigmas of flowers. Repression of DSH1 expression by the antisense gene or RNA interference (RNAi) resulted in a severe reduction of fertility. In the transformants in which DSH1 expression was suppressed, significantly increased expression of DSH2 was found in leaves but not in pistils, suggesting that there was tissue-specific correlation between DSH1 and DSH2 expression. Our results indicate that the product of DSH1 may be involved in plant viability or reproductive processes, and that the phenotype of sterility is apparently caused by loss of function of DSH1 in the stigma. It is also suggested that there is a complex mechanism controlling the tissue-specific expression of the DSH1 gene.
17609770	It has been reported that a large amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is produced during seed imbibition and this ROS is related to seed vigor. To make this physiological mechanism clear, we have used 2-methyl-6-(4-methoxyphenyl)-3,7-dihydroimidazo(1,2-alpha)pyrazin-3-one (MCLA) as a sensitive and physiologically compatible probe for the determination of superoxide anion (O(2)(*-)) production in vivo. Our results showed that dry rice (Oryzae sativa L.) seed embryo cells possessed the capacity to generate O(2)(*-). Conversely, the O(2)(*-) production of seed embryo cells was inhibited by quinacrine (QA) and diphenylene iodonium (DPI), two specific inhibitors of NADPH oxidase, and O(2)(*-) induced MCLA-mediated chemiluminescence was also blocked by superoxide dismutase (SOD). Additionally, O(2)(*-) -production ability increased dramatically in a NADPH-dependent way in the plasma membrane protein abstract from rice seed embryo cells, whereas SOD and the inhibitors mentioned above suppressed O(2)(*-) production. These preliminary results suggested that rice seeds contained intrinsic NADPH oxidase activity. To validate this conclusion, dichlorofluorescein (DCF) fluorescence staining was used (observed under a laser scanning microscope, LSM) to reflect the in situ assessment of O(2)(*-) -generation. The position of O(2)(*-) production located at the plasma membrane. Additionally the ability to synthesize O(2)(*-) was activated directly by calcium ions. These observations are in accord with the character of NADPH oxidase catalyzed O(2)(*-) -generation. All these results indicated that NADPH oxidase contribute to O(2)(*-) production and release to the outside. We concluded that NADPH oxidase plays an intrinsic role as an NADPH sensor, so, measuring the O(2)(*-) one can monitor the NADPH concentration, which is an index of seed vigor. Therefore the O(2)(*-) generation during early imbibition can serve as a rapid measurement of seed vigor.
17609893	Polyploidization is a basic feature of plant evolution. Nearly all of the main food, cotton and oil crops are polyploid. When ploidy levels increase, yields double; this phenomenon suggested a new strategy of rice breeding that utilizes wide crosses and polyploidization dual advantages to breed super rice. Because low seed set rates in polyploid rice usually makes it difficult to breed, the selection of Ph-liked gene lines was emphasized. After progenies of indica-japonica were identified and selected, two polyploid lines, PMeS-1 and PMeS-2 with Polyploid Meiosis Stability (PMeS) genes were bred. The procedure included seven steps: selecting parents, crossing or multiple crossing, back-crossing, doubling chromosomes, identifying the polyploid, and choosing plants with high seed set rates that can breed themselves into stable lines. The characteristics of PMeS were determined by observing meiotic behaviors and by cross-identification of seed sets. PMeS-1 and PMeS-2, (japonica rice), have several characteristics different from other polyploid rice lines, including a higher rate of seed set (more than 65%, increasing to more than 70% in their F1 offspring); and stable meiotic behaviors (pairing with bivalents and quarivalents nearly without over-quarivalent in prophase, nearly without lagging chromosomes in metaphase and without micronuclei in anaphase and telophase). The latter was obviously different from control polyploid line Dure-4X, which displayed abnormal meiotic behaviors including a higher rate of multivalents, univalents and trivalents in prophase, lagging chromosomes in metaphase and micronuclei in anaphase and telophase. There were also three differences of the breeding method between PMeS lines and normal diploid lines: chromosomes doubling, polyploidism identifying and higher seed set testing. The selection of PMeS lines is the first step in polyploid rice breeding; their use will advance the progress of polyploid rice breeding, which will in turn offer a new way to breed super rice.
17610048	The adverse health effects of Stachybotrys chartarum have often been linked to exposure to the trichothecene mycotoxins. Recent studies have shown that in addition to mycotoxins this fungus is capable of producing and secreting in vivo proteins such as hemolysins and proteinases. Spore extracts obtained from a high trichothecene producing isolate JS 58-17 exhibited a significantly lower proteolytic activity compared to the low trichothecene producer, JS 58-06. Growing isolates on rice or potato dextrose agar results in higher proteolytic activity of the spores compared to those grown on drywall. Proteinases in the spore extracts can hydrolyze gelatin and collagen I and IV. Analysis of zymograms shows the presence of several proteins with proteolytic activity in the spores of S. chartarum. Human tracheal epithelial cells exposed to spore extracts produced significantly higher levels of IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-alpha than control cells. This stimulation of cytokine production was completely abolished by Pefabloc, a serine protease inhibitor. Neutrophil numbers and proinflammatory cytokine (IL1-beta and TNF-alpha) concentrations were highly elevated in the lungs of 7 day old rat pups exposed intratracheally to 4 x 10(4) spores/gm body weight compared to control. No significant differences in those inflammatory indices in vivo were noted between the treatments with the high trichothecene producer, isolate JS 58-17 and JS 58-06, which does not produce macrocyclic trichothecenes. Immunohistochemistry revealed reduced collagen IV labeling in spore-induced lung granulomas in rat pups exposed to both isolates. These results suggest that proteinases from S. chartarum spores significantly contribute to lung inflammation and injury.
17610133	Transcription factors regulate gene expression in response to various external and internal cues by activating or suppressing downstream genes in a pathway. In this study, we provide a complete overview of the genes encoding C(2)H(2) zinc-finger transcription factors in rice, describing the gene structure, gene expression, genome localization, and phylogenetic relationship of each member. The genome of Oryza sativa codes for 189 C(2)H(2) zinc-finger transcription factors, which possess two main types of zinc-fingers (named C and Q). The Q-type zinc fingers contain a conserved motif, QALGGH, and are plant specific, whereas C type zinc fingers are found in other organisms as well. A genome-wide microarray based gene expression analysis involving 14 stages of vegetative and reproductive development along with 3 stress conditions has revealed that C(2)H(2) gene family in indica rice could be involved during all the stages of reproductive development from panicle initiation till seed maturation. A total of 39 genes are up-regulated more than 2-fold, in comparison to vegetative stages, during reproductive development of rice, out of which 18 are specific to panicle development and 12 genes are seed-specific. Twenty-six genes have been found to be up-regulated during three abiotic stresses and of these, 14 genes express specifically during the stress conditions analyzed while 12 are also up-regulated during reproductive development, suggesting that some components of the stress response pathways are also involved in reproduction.
17610328	Potential growth of two widely-grown hybrid rice varieties in the Jinhua district of Zhejiang Province, Shanyou63 for mid-rice and Xieyou46 for late rice, was simulated using a crop growth model of WOFOST. Parameters of the rice growth in WOFOST were calibrated through field experiments from 1999 to 2002 in Jinhua. The potential yield simulated with WOFOST was about 12 t/ha for Shanyou63 and 10 t/ha for Xieyou46, which are in good agreement with the highest recorded yield obtained in this area. Under farmers practice, current yield is about 7.5 t/ha for Shanyou63 and 6.5 t/ha for Xieyou46. There is a gap between the actual rice yield and the potential yield for these two hybrid rice varieties grown in this area. The attainable target yields were set to 70% to 75% of their potential yields for the two varieties. A recently developed software "Nutrient Decision Support System (NuDSS)" for irrigated rice was used to optimize nutrient management for these two rice varieties. According to NuDSS, the optimal fertilizer N requirement for the target yields was about 150 kg/ha for Shanyou63 and about 120 kg/ha for Xieyou46, which were only about 70% of the fertilizer N application under current farmers' practice. Comparing with farmers' practice, there is great potential to increase actual rice yields and to reduce fertilizer N use rates by improving rice crop management practice in Jinhua.
17611115	Puccinellia tenuiflora is the main grass species growing in the saline-alkali soil of the Songnen plain in northeastern China, suggesting it has a high tolerance to saline stress. In this study, cDNA microarrays containing 1067 clones of P. tenuiflora were constructed to investigate gene expression patterns resulting from saline-alkali (NaHCO(3)) stress. RNA was extracted from P. tenuiflora treated with 400 mmol L(-1) NaHCO(3) for 6, 12, 24 and 48 h. Untreated (no saline-alkali stress) samples were used as control. A total of 95 transcripts were differentially regulated under the conditions studied, and 38, 35, 25 and 49 genes were differentially expressed with NaHCO(3) stress for 6, 12, 24 and 48h, respectively. Among these, approximately 40% were putative novel or functionally unknown genes, and the remainder function in photosynthesis, cell rescue, defense, transport, metabolism, transcription regulation and protein destination, etc. Analysis of the P. tenuiflora genes demonstrated the complexity of, and differences in, gene expression patterns resulting from different NaHCO(3) stress times. The genetic relationship between P. tenuiflora and other plants was investigated by BlastN analysis. The results showed nearly 20% of the expressed sequence tags from P. tenuiflora shared significant similarities with rice Oryza sativa, an important food crop. The close genetic relationship between these two species suggests that P. tenuiflora may be a good plant model for studying saline-alkali tolerance mechanisms in O. sativa.
17611799	Insertional mutagen-mediated gene tagging populations have been essential resources for analyzing the function of plant genes. In rice, maize transposable elements have been successfully utilized to produce transposant populations. However, many generations and substantial field space are required to obtain a sufficiently sized transposant population. In rice, the japonica and indica subspecies are phenotypically and genetically divergent. Here, callus cultures with seeds carrying Ac and Ds were used to produce 89,700 lines of Dongjin, a japonica cultivar, and 6,200 lines of MGRI079, whose genome is composed of a mixture of the genetic backgrounds of japonica and indica. Of the more than 3,000 lines examined, 67% had Ds elements. Among the Ds-carrying lines, 81% of Dongjin and 63% of MGRI079 contained transposed Ds, with an average of around 2.0 copies. By examining more than 15,000 lines, it was found that 12% expressed the reporter gene GUS during the early-seedling stage. GUS was expressed in root hairs and crown root initials at estimated frequencies of 0.78% and 0.34%, respectively. The 5,271 analyzed Ds loci were found to be randomly distributed over all of the rice chromosomes.
17612071	Invasive infections caused by Enterobacter sakazakii have occurred predominantly in low-birth-weight neonates and infants younger than 2 months of age. However, infections have also occurred in healthy infants up to 8 months of age and in immunocompromised children up to 4 years of age. The ability of E. sakazakii to survive and grow in infant cereals as affected by composition of the cereal, composition of the reconstitution liquid, and temperature is unknown. A study was done to determine the survival and growth characteristics of E. sakazakii initially at populations of 0.005 and 0.52 CFU/ml of infant rice cereal, oatmeal cereal, or rice with mixed fruit cereal reconstituted with water, milk, or apple juice. Reconstituted cereals were stored at 4, 12, 21, and 30 degrees C, and populations were monitored for up to 72 h. Growth did not occur in reconstituted cereals stored at 4 degrees C or in cereals reconstituted with apple juice and stored at 12 degrees C. Populations (> or =1 CFU/ml) were detected in cereals reconstituted with water or milk and stored at 12, 21, and 30 degres C for 24, 8, and 4 h, respectively. The composition of infant cereals did not markedly affect the survival or growth of E. sakazakii in reconstituted cereals. Populations of E. sakazakii in reconstituted cereal decreased with increases in populations of mesophilic aerobic microflora up to 8 to 9 log CFU/ml, which was concurrent with decreases in pH. E. sakazakii, initially at 2.62 log CFU/ml of rice cereal reconstituted with apple juice (pH 4.32), survived at 40C for at least 14 days. The pathogen grew at 21 and 30 degrees C within 2 days and then decreased to undetectable levels (<1 CFU/10 ml) in cereal stored at 21 degrees C for 5 days or 30'C for 4 days. Initially, at 7.32 log CFU/ml, E. sakazakii was detected in rice cereal stored at 4 degrees C for 50 days. It is recommended that reconstituted infant cereals stored at 21 or 30 degrees C be discarded within 4 h after preparation or stored at -40C, temperatures at which E. sakazakii will not grow.
17612161	Although concentrations of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibezofurans (PCDD/Fs; dioxins) in majority of Japanese river and ocean sediments decreased below the national environmental quality standard of 150 pg-TEQ. (g-dry sediment)(-1) by 2004, localized contamination inasmuch as 100-fold excess of the environmental quality standard has been reported at various locations including Ichihara Anchorage in northeastern Tokyo Bay. In the present study, we analyzed all mono- to octachlorinated dioxins in 12 surface sediments from Ichihara Anchorage and applied positive matrix factorization (PMF) to quantitatively fingerprintthe congener pattern and geographical distribution of a factor causing the localized contamination. A PMF-derived fingerprint attributable to dioxin impurities in pentachlorophenol (PCP) exerted more than 90% contribution to total dioxin concentrations in Ichihara Anchorage surface sediments. Although majority of Ichihara Anchorage-born dioxins were trapped at the origin, contribution of the PCP-derived dioxins in overall Tokyo Bay gradually increased toward Ichihara Anchorage, indicating the impact of localized dioxin contamination on a large proportion of Tokyo Bay. We suggest that, in addition to runoff from rice paddies (to which PCP had long been applied as herbicide) at the basin, Ichihara Anchorage serves as a significant source of PCP-derived dioxins especially in eastern Tokyo Bay.
17613372	The microbiological safety of fresh produce is a significant concern of consumers and industry. After applying at an inoculated level (about 10(6) CFUg(-1)) of E. coli O157:H7 and Salmonella enterica serovars Typhimurium on shredded iceberg lettuce and water samples individually, they were stored at 4 degrees C for 14 days and 22 degrees C for 7 days to monitor the growth and survival of pathogens. The results showed that at the end of 4 degrees C storage, populations of two pathogens in lettuce and water decreased approximately 1 log CFUg(-1). However, microbial levels on shredded lettuce increased 3 logs within 3 days at 22 degrees C. Vinegar (acetic acid) had been used to reduce populations of foodborne pathogens in foods; hence, the antimicrobial effect of rice vinegar on the survival of E. coli O157:H7 in inoculated lettuce (10(4) and 10(7) CFUg(-1)) is examined in this study. Results were observed that the treatment of inoculated lettuce (10(7) CFUg(-1)) with commercial vinegar containing 5% acetic acid (pH 3.0) for 5 min would reduce 3 logs population at 25 degrees C. Less than a 1-log decrease in bacterial numbers was recovered during 5 min exposure to 0.5% (pH 3.26) acetic acid.
17613375	Enterobacter sakazakii infections in preterm neonates and infants have been epidemiologically associated with consumption of reconstituted powdered infant formula. The bacterium has been isolated from grain, infant cereals, and cereal factory environments. A study was done to determine the survival characteristics of E. sakazakii initially at populations of 0.31 and 5.03 logCFU/g of infant rice cereal (a(w) 0.30, 0.45-0.46, and 0.68-0.69). Cereal was stored at 4, 21, and 30 degrees C and populations were monitored for up to 12 months. Survival of the pathogen in infant rice, barley, oatmeal, and mixed grain cereals (a(w) 0.63-0.66, 0.76, or 0.82-0.83) initially containing a population of 4.93-5.64 logCFU/g and held at 4, 21, and 30 degrees C up to 24 weeks was determined. Populations decreased significantly (p < or = 0.05) in all cereals stored at 21 and 30 degrees C regardless of a(w). Increases in a(w) or storage temperature accelerated the rate of death of E. sakazakii in dry infant cereals. However, at an initial population of 0.31 logCFU/g, E. sakazakii survived in rice cereal (a(w) 0.30-0.69) for up to 12 months at all storage temperatures. Survival of E. sakazakii was not affected by the composition of dry infant rice, barley, mixed grain, and oatmeal cereals (initial a(w) 0.63-0.83) stored for up to 24 weeks at 4, 21, or 30 degrees C. This study demonstrated that E. sakazakii can survive for up to 12 months in infant cereals having a wide range of a(w) when storage is at temperatures simulating those to which they may be exposed during distribution, at retail, and in the home.
17614147	Rice stripe disease, caused by Rice stripe virus (RSV), is one of the most serious rice diseases in temperate and subtropical regions of the world. Since RSV is not transmissible mechanically, an insect transmission test was the original basis for identification of the viral population and cultivar resistance. A simple, rapid and reliable method is described by which virus-free small brown planthoppers acquired RSV from frozen infected rice leaves and transmitted the virus to healthy rice plants. Of 30 planthoppers tested, 9 insects fed on the frozen infected leaves acquired the virus as shown by an indirect-ELISA. In the transmission tests with a single insect, fed previously on frozen leaves, 5 of 30 plants (16.67%) became infected, compared to 7 of 30 plants (23.33%) became infected when a single insect fed on fresh infected leaves. All rice plants expressing stripe symptoms were identified with the virus by RT-PCR.
17614953	C-repeat/dehydration-responsive element binding factors (CBF/DREBs) are a family of transcription factors that regulate freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis. As a step towards understanding the stress response of monocotyledonous plants, we isolated a barley gene HvCBF4 whose expression is induced by low-temperature stress. Transgenic over-expression of HvCBF4 in rice resulted in an increase in tolerance to drought, high-salinity and low-temperature stresses without stunting growth. Interestingly, under low-temperature conditions, the maximum photochemical efficiency of photosystem II in the dark-adapted state (F(v)/F(m), where F(v) is the variable fluorescence and F(m) is the maximum fluorescence) in HvCBF4 plants was higher by 20% and 10% than that in non-transgenic and CBF3/DREB1A plants, respectively. Using the 60K Rice Whole Genome microarray, 15 rice genes were identified that were activated by HvCBF4. When compared with 12 target rice genes of CBF3/DREB1A, five genes were common to both HvCBF4 and CBF3/DREB1A, and 10 and seven genes were specific to HvCBF4 and CBF3/DREB1A, respectively. Interestingly, HvCBF4 did not activate Dip1 and Lip5, two important target genes of CBF3/DREB1A, in transgenic rice under normal growth conditions, but their expression was enhanced by HvCBF4 under low-temperature conditions. Our results suggest that CBF/DREBs of barley act differently from those of Arabidopsis in transgenic rice.
17615000	Total tract digestibility and nitrogen retention of three diets containing different levels of fibre [200, 260 and 320 g/kg neutral detergent fibre (NDF) in dry matter] were determined in three breeds of growing pig at an initial age of approximately 3.5 months. The breeds were local (Mong Cai, MC), F1 crossbred (MC x Yorkshire) and exotic (Landrace x Yorkshire, LY), allocated at random within breed (block) to double 3 x 3 Latin squares. The main fibrous ingredients of the experimental diets were rice bran, cassava residue meal and non-dehulled groundnut cake meal. Digestibility of organic matter (OM), crude protein (CP), NDF, crude fibre, gross energy (GE) and ether extract (EE) decreased as the level of dietary NDF increased (p < 0.001). The r(2) values for the relationship between NDF level and digestibility of OM, CP, GE and EE were 83%, 83%, 80% and 82% respectively. On average, an increase in NDF content of 1% unit resulted in a decrease in OM, CP, GE and EE digestibility of 0.67%, 0.75%, 0.50% and 0.42% units respectively. Digestibility of energy and nutrients was the highest for MC and the lowest for LY (p < 0.01), with intermediate values for F1. There was a negative effect of NDF level on nitrogen (N) retained as a proportion of intake (p < 0.05). Nitrogen retention and utilization were significantly higher (p < 0.001) for LY than for MC and F1 pigs.
17615239	Analysis of the sequences of 74 randomly selected BACs demonstrated that the maize nuclear genome contains approximately 37,000 candidate genes with homologues in other plant species. An additional approximately 5,500 predicted genes are severely truncated and probably pseudogenes. The distribution of genes is uneven, with approximately 30% of BACs containing no genes. BAC gene density varies from 0 to 7.9 per 100 kb, whereas most gene islands contain only one gene. The average number of genes per gene island is 1.7. Only 72% of these genes show collinearity with the rice genome. Particular LTR retrotransposon families (e.g., Gyma) are enriched on gene-free BACs, most of which do not come from pericentromeres or other large heterochromatic regions. Gene-containing BACs are relatively enriched in different families of LTR retrotransposons (e.g., Ji). Two major bursts of LTR retrotransposon activity in the last 2 million years are responsible for the large size of the maize genome, but only the more recent of these is well represented in gene-containing BACs, suggesting that LTR retrotransposons are more efficiently removed in these domains. The results demonstrate that sample sequencing and careful annotation of a few randomly selected BACs can provide a robust description of a complex plant genome.
17615448	This study was conducted to explore the relationship between isoflavones intake from soy foods and perimenstrual symptoms among women. The research design was a cross sectional study. Subjects consisted of 245 women living in Korea, aged 19-49 years. The measurement tools were MDQ and FFQ. Frequently consumed soy isoflavones foods were rice with soybeans, soybean paste stew, and soy paste with tofu. The amounts of soy isoflavones foods consumed in order from highest to lowest were rice with soybeans, soybean paste stew, seasoned soybean sprouts, and soy paste with tofu. Subjects were divided into three groups by isoflavones intake levels; the small intake group, moderate intake group, and large intake group. There were significant differences in some menstrual symptoms, and postmenstrual symptoms by isoflavones intake levels. In general, the moderate isoflavones intake group showed lower scores in some menstrual symptoms and postmenstrual periods compared to the small and large intake groups. These results suggest some positive health effects of isoflavones from soy foods on perimenstrual symptoms. More accurate, objective measurement needs to be applied and more investigation of soy isoflavones effects on many aspects of women's health need to be done in a future study.
17615878	A six-year field plot experiment of rice-wheat rotation was conducted to study the effects of straw application and earthworm inoculation on cropland soil organic carbon and labile organic carbon. Five treatments were installed, i.e., CK, straw mulch (M), straw mulch plus earthworm inoculation (ME), incorporated straw with soil (I), and incorporated straw with soil plus earthworm inoculation (IE). The results showed that soil organic carbon content increased significantly after six years straw application, and treatment I was more efficient than treatment M. Earthworm inoculation under straw application had no significant effects on soil organic carbon content. Straw application, whether straw mulch or incorporated straw with soil, increased the content of soil labile organic carbon, and incorporated straw with soil was more beneficial to the increase of the contents of hot water-extractable carbon, potentially mineralizable carbon, acid-extractable carbon, readily oxidizable carbon, particulate organic carbon, and light fraction organic carbon. There was a little relationship between the quantitative variations of soil dissoluble organic carbon and microbial biomass carbon and the patterns of straw application. Among the treatments, the activity of soil organic carbon was decreased in the order of IF > I > M > ME > CK. Straw application pattern was the main factor affecting soil organic carbon and labile organic carbon, while earthworm inoculation was not universally significanfly effective to all kinds of soil labile organic carbon.
17615883	A greenhouse experiment was conducted to study the effects of simulated nitrogen deposition on the growth and competition of C4 weedy species (Echinochloa crusgalli var. mitis L.) and C3 upland rice (Oryza sativa L.) under day/night temperature of 35 degrees C/25 degrees C and 30 degrees C/20 degrees C. The results showed that under day/night temperature 35 degrees C/25 degrees C, 4.0 g x m(-2) x a(-1) N deposition enhanced the shoot biomass of E. crusgalli and O. sativa by 29.18% and 27.80%, respectively, compared with control. The N and P uptake by E. crusgalli increased by 87.33% and 49.73%, respectively, but no change was found for O. sativa. Under 30 degrees C/20 degrees C, three N depositions (2, 4 and 6 g x m(-1) x a(-1)) enhanced the shoot biomass, tiller number, and shoot N and P uptake of E. crusgalli by 48.99%, 72.68% and 36.18%, 111.11%, 122.22% and 144.44%, 108.88%, 129.22% and 134.29%, and 16.53%, 65.05% and 22.47%, respectively, but no changes were observed for O. sativa. Nitrogen deposition significantly increased the shoot biomass ratio of E. crusgalli to O. sativa under 30 degrees C/20 degrees C, but had no impact on this ratio under 35 degrees C/25 degrees C. It was suggested that N deposition could enhance the competition of E. crusgalli over O. sativa, especially under lower air temperature.
17615884	A hydroponic study was conducted on the root growth, nutrient uptake, and root extracts and exudates of soybean and rice under aluminum (Al) stress. The results showed that low Al (10 micromol x L(-1)) stimulated the seed germination and root growth of soybean, but had no obvious promotion effects on rice. Al stress increased the P uptake, but decreased the K, Ca and Mg uptake by both soybean and rice. Rice accumulated less Al and more P than soybean. When exposed to Al stress, the soluble protein content in soybean and rice roots increased, soluble phenol decreased, while soluble sugar increased first and decreased then. The citrate content in soybean roots decreased obviously under Al stress. Compared with soybean, rice accumulated more soluble protein and phenol and less citrate, but no difference was observed in soluble sugar content. Al increased the exudation of citrate and soluble protein, phenol and sugar from soybean roots. Under Al stress, soybean roots possessed a higher cation exchange capacity than rice roots. It was suggested that soybean and rice had different physiological responses to Al stress. The Al tolerance of rice was probably associated with its higher P uptake and lower cation exchange capacity than soybean, while root exudates had no significant correlation with its Al tolerance.
17615912	In this observational study, estimation of food intake was evaluated using recording of portion size consumed, instead of post-weighing, as a method. In total, 930 feeding episodes were observed among 128 children aged 12-24 months in which actual intake was available by pre- and post-weighing. For each offering and feeding episode, portion size consumed was recorded by an independent nutritionist-as none, less than half, half or more, and all. Using the pre-weighed offering, available intake was estimated by multiplying portion sizes by the estimated weight. The estimated mean intake was 510.4 kilojoules compared to actual intake of 510.7 kilojoules by weighing. Similar results were found with nestum (52.0 vs 56.2 g), bread (3.8 vs 3.7 g), puffed rice (1.7 vs 1.9 g), banana (31.3 vs 24.4 g), and milk (41.6 vs 44.2 mL). Recording portion size consumed and estimating food intake from that provides a good alternative to the time-consuming and often culturally-unacceptable method of post-weighing food each time after a feeding episode.
17616880	Mercury (Hg) contamination was assessed in environment near an amalgamation gold recovery operation located at a small scale mining operation (Phanom Pha) in Phichit Province, Thailand. Total mercury (THg) concentrations was determined in water, sediment, bivalves in the aquatic environment and as dry deposition or atmospheric fallout on surface soil and leaves of Neem tree (Azadirachta indica Juss. var. siamensis Valeton) near the mining operation. THg in surface soil, Neem flowers (edible part) and rice grain in surrounding terrestrial habitat and with distance from the mining area were also evaluated for possible contamination. Potential environmental risks were evaluated using the hazard quotient equation. Hg analyses conducted in the aquatic habitat showed that THg in water, sediment and bivalves (Scabies cripata Gould) ranged from 0.4 to 4 microg L(-1), 96 to 402 microg kg(-1)dry weight (dw) and 15 to 584 microg kg(-1) wet weight (ww), respectively. High concentrations of THg in water, sediment and bivalves were observed in the receiving stream near the mining operation which was located near the Khao Chet Luk Reservoir. Whereas the THg concentration in water, sediment and bivalves from monitoring stations outside the gold mining operation (upstream and downstream), were considerably lower with the values of 0.4-0.8 microg L(-1), 96-140 microg kg(-1) dw and 88-658 microg kg(-1) dw, respectively. The elevated concentration of Hg found in the sediment near the mining operation was consistent with Hg accumulation measured in bivalves. The elevated Hg levels found in living bivalves collected from highly contaminated sites suggested that the sediment bound Hg was bioavailable. THg in surface soils, brown rice grain (Jasmine rice #105) and Neem flowers of terrestrial habitats were in the range of 16 to 180 microg kg(-1) dw, 190 to 300 microg kg(-1) dw, and 622 to 2150 microg kg(-1) dw, respectively. Elevated concentrations of mercury were found in Neem flowers with the concentration greater than 600 microg kg(-1) ww, which exceeds the maximum permissible concentration reported for biota tissue (500 microg kg(-1) ww). An evaluation of air and soil pollution near the mining operations showed high concentrations of THg in dry deposit from atmospheric fallout (139 microg m(-2) d(-1)), and in surface soil (10,564 microg kg(-1) dw) at station near where open burning of gold ore extracts using the amalgamation process occurred. High or elevated concentration of THg (1172-1301 microg kg(-1) dw) in leaves of Neem tree was also measured near the mining operations. A survey of Hg in surface soil showed elevated Hg concentrations near the site which corresponded to the elevated THg concentration in dry deposition. These results suggested that atmospheric fallout is a major source of Hg to the area surrounding the mining or gold ore extraction. Results also suggest that Hg emitted into the air (estimated to be 60-150 g d(-1)) from the gold mining activities (over the past 10 years) contaminated air, the aquatic environment, surface soil and biota in the area surrounding the gold mining operation.
17617177	In contrast to animals, in which products of meiosis differentiate directly into sperm, flowering plants employ a specific mechanism to give rise to functional sperm cells, the specifics of which remain largely unknown. A previous study revealed that, compared to yeast and vertebrates, which have two proteins (Rad21 and its meiosis-specific variant Rec8) that play a vital role in sister chromatid cohesion and segregation for mitosis and meiosis, respectively, the rice genome encodes four Rad21/Rec8 proteins (OsRad21s). In this paper, phylogenetic and immunostaining analyses reveal that OsRad21-3 is an orthologue of yeast Rad21. OsRAD21-3 transcript and protein accumulated preferentially in flowers, with low levels in vegetative tissues. In flowers, they persisted from the stamen and carpel primordia stages until the mature pollen stage. OsRAD21-3-deficient RNAi lines showed arrested pollen mitosis, aberrant pollen chromosome segregation and aborted pollen grains, which led to disrupted pollen viability. However, male meiosis in these RNAi lines did not appear to be severely disrupted, which suggests that the main involvement of OsRAD21-3 is in post-meiotic pollen development by affecting pollen mitosis. Furthermore, of the four OsRAD21 genes in the rice genome, only OsRAD21-3 was expressed in pollen grains. Given that the mechanism involving generation of sperm cells differs between flowering plants and metozoans, this study shows, in part, why flowering plants of rice and Arabidopsis have four Rad21/Rec8 proteins, as compared with two in yeast and metozoans, and gives some clues to the functional differentiation of Rad21/Rec8 proteins during evolution.
